ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e3235	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 30. Meeting of the National Council. ==References====External links== Meeting of 4. In July 2007, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies of Hagenhofer, Dr. Kräpf, Schopf, Stauber, Großruck, Peter Haubner, Mandak, Ölllinger, Dr. Fichtenbauer, Kickl, Dr. Kurzmann, Lutz Weinzinger are reported to be prevented. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e3272	I announce the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union as follows: The Federal Minister for Social Affairs and Consumer Protection Dr. Erwin Buchinger is represented by the Federal Minister for Education, Arts and Culture Dr. Claudia Schmied. The Federal Chancellor and the Federal Minister for European and International Affairs have announced their intention to "European Council of 21-22. In June 2007, the Commission issued declarations on the basis of the information provided by the Member States. These are on the agenda as item 2. There is a request by five Members to refer to these statements in accordance with § 81 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure to hold a joint debate. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e3314	In accordance with § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested the written question 1199/J by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues in the Federal Chancellor on chronic internal and foreign political failure of the Federal Chancellor. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e3335	It is proposed that the debate on points 3 and 4, 5 and 6 and 7 to 9 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e3362	The Presidential Conference proposed the following design and duration of the debates: A day block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been proposed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 116 minutes, Greens and Freedom 92 as well as BZÖ 64 minutes. The debate on Agenda item 1 will take place until 1 p.m. and will be transferred by the ORF from 9.05 a.m. to 1 p.m. For the time of television transmission, the following terms of reference are proposed: A report shall be submitted by the examiner to the investigative committee with a speaking time of 32 minutes. The further Rules of Procedure are as follows: First round: SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens, FPÖ, BZÖ, Minister of Finance: 10 minutes; second round: SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens, FPÖ, BZÖ, State Secretary: 5 minutes; third round: SPÖ, ÖVP, FPÖ; fourth round: SPÖ, ÖVP, BZÖ; fifth round: SPÖ, ÖVP; sixth round: SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens; Seventh round: SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens, FPÖ, BZÖ. The Committee chairman's report is available for 32 minutes. A longer word message up to a maximum of 70 minutes is at the expense of the speaking time of the FPÖ Group. The group speaking time is up to 37 minutes or 38 minutes at FPÖ. No mandate, no mandate may speak for more than 12 minutes in case of a word. The speaking time indicated during the speech is to be strictly observed. We will also take account of this from the Presidency. Before the end of the final round, the President-in-Office or the President-in-Office of the Council will, after consultation with the presidents of the club, evenly divide the remaining speaking time between the political groups. The debate on item 1 will end at 1 p.m. at the latest. Any actual corrections will be called after the end of the debate. Agenda item 2: Declaration by the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Minister for European and International Affairs pursuant to § 19 para. 2 GoG to the European Council, will be called at 1.15 p.m. The debate will end at 3 p.m. For the debate on Agenda item 2, the following terms of reference are proposed: Federal Chancellor 14 minutes, Foreign Minister 11 minutes, round of delegates to 7 minutes, round of delegates to 5 minutes, round of delegates to 4 minutes. Within the three rounds of speakers, Contra/Pro is spoken in the order Green, SPÖ, FPÖ, ÖVP and BZÖ. Before the end of the final round, the President-in-Office, after consultation with the presidents of the club, will, in turn, evenly divide the remaining speaking time between the political groups. The debate will be passed on by the ORF during the period from 13:15 a.m. to 3 p.m. Any actual corrections will be called upon after the end of this debate. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is accepted by a majority, and I also note that the required two-thirds majority is present. [[09:07:21]] 1. Point Report pursuant to § 45 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on the activities of the Audit Committee on Financial Market Supervision, BAWAG, Hypo Alpe-Adria and other financial services
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e3454	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item. I would now ask the Committee of Inquiry to report to Mr Martin Graf on the activities of the Committee of Inquiry. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e3478	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! ==References== In October 2006, with the voice of the SPÖ, the Freedom Party and Greens of this House, it decided to set up an investigation committee on the verification of the control and supervisory rights and measures of financial market supervision, in particular BAWAG, Hypo Alpe-Adria and other financial services providers. I would like to remind you that by the year 2006 a total of 14 research committees took place, nine of them were initiated by the Austrian People's Party, nine by the Social Democratic Party, four by the FPÖ, zero by the Greens. This picture, admittedly, changed in 2006, as a committee of inquiry was now set up with the votes of three political groups. In addition to the well-known Eurofighter or Fighter Investigation Committee, a further investigation committee has been set up, in particular in the light of and in the light of the major damage suffered at BAWAG, also at the Hypo Alpe-Adria, at AMIS or other financial service providers and banks – I only remember the Bank Burgenland in the past. A damage, ladies and gentlemen, of nearly 30 billion schilling at BAWAG, 4.5 billion schilling at the Hypo Alpe-Adria, 1 billion schilling at AMIS. And the question was: How does the overall financial market supervision work? Ladies and gentlemen! This investigation committee could not complete its work – that is the first finding to be made – because it was ended early by the votes of the S & D Party and the Austrian People's Party. In this context, you allow me to have a sporty comparison: It's similar to a marathon run. It is ambitious to three people to start a marathon race, two other participants are invited. Four begin to run, ambitious in time, one starts to run slowly, but at the end has a good team of caretakers on the track. At kilometres 35, where it is becoming more and more tiring – this is a crucial phase in the marathon race – the track team begins to get nervous, runs in and beats one of the marathon runners, begins a ranch, and they decide at the end to break down the marathon race. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] From the sporting point of view not optimal, but to take note. This does not mean, however, that this Committee of Inquiry has not come to a satisfactory and follow-up conclusion. It is sad that, due to the announcement of the early termination, a total of 16 determined persons, also referred to in the Austrian National Council's instructions, no longer remembered their citizenship and turned their backs on this House, although they often only took place hundreds of metres away from this House. It is also sad that, for the first time in the Second Republic, it was no longer possible for a committee of inquiry to draw up a final report of a written nature, including the minority rights already available in the form of a minority declaration, but also the individual right of a Member, to issue a personal different opinion even though I have already submitted a request on 20.6. to set up a subcommittee to determine or compile a report. Documents have been ordered unanimously, which up to now have not been received, first and foremost by the Financial Markets Supervisory Authority, by the Federal Ministry of Finance, such as the Austrian Trade Unions' Tax Act – a request initiated by the ÖVP to examine the subject-matter of the party financing. In the last 14 days, a total of 12 200 pages have arrived, late arrived, decided already in November of last year, but by permanent relieving by track posts at the end held back by the authorities. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Col. Stummvoll was the leader of the Group of the ÖVP on 2 February. February 2007 – in the minutes which have been published – said that if meetings were still requested in April 2007, he will now announce: without the consent of the ÖVP. To that end, we need to know that there is a good tradition in this House, which we should legitimize, that date-settings are made exclusively within the consensus of all the political groups in this House. In the case of aliens, only one group has already been prevented from working in the committees, including in the Committee of Inquiry. The political value remains left to everyone. Disappointing that the second one involved in the ‘trafficking trade’, Jan Krainer, has not remained true to his word. He has often and often, last on 25.6., meant: If we cannot fulfil the inspection task, then the committee simply continues, SPÖ Group leader Kai Jan Krainer put the rod in the window. It is unique in the history of the Second Republic that the responsible Minister Karl-Heinz Grasser – and above all we have the political responsibility to investigate – has not been or has not been invited to 17 of the 18 agenda items and has not been heard. Despite all of this: The work comes to a conclusion today, and there are excellent results. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced – like many others in this committee of inquiry who have been involved – that we will bring about lasting changes based on the findings of this committee of inquiry in the legislative field, but perhaps also in the moral field in this Republic. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I come to recommendations which, as I believe, a vast majority of this House can easily contribute to the findings of the Committee of Inquiry. Entrepreneurship of State Commissioners: This requires legalisation and the creation of transparency directives on the posting of state commissioners. The establishment of a qualification profile for state commissioners and the reorganisation of duties is not necessary. The definition of compulsory training and training of the State Commissioners is a command of the hour. There is an urgent need for the creation of unbureaucratic withdrawals as well as of liability and criminal provisions in the event of violations of the obligations of state commissioners. Setting up a rotational obligation for the State Commissioners, proposal: Three-year work as a State Commissioner at an institute is necessary. define a reporting obligation for the State Commissioners to the Board of Directors, Supervisory Board, Bank auditors and auditors. The position of the Supervisory Board, an internal control body: Legalisation of the necessary rights and obligations of supervisory councils in capital companies or foundations, as well as the implementation of strict liability and criminal provisions in the event of breach of obligations are necessary. We must address the creation of strict rules of incompatibility. Legalisation of corporate governance rules for management and supervisory bodies must be carried out. The limitation of the supervisory board mandates for banks and financial services companies to a maximum of five mandates per person should be advised. The position of the auditor, a control body: The intensification of the liability and criminal provisions of auditors in the event of breach of obligations is obvious to all, as is the legalisation of his corporate governance rules. Obligation of external rotation of auditors every three years. Legal definition of a minimum auditor's fee. In addition to the mandate of the statutory audit, it is necessary to lay down the inconsistency of the taking over of mandates for group companies of auditors. The supervisory and audit authorities, a central checkpoint: What recommendations should be made? – It is urgently necessary to reform through the merger of audit and supervisory authorities such as the Ministry of Finance, the Financial Market Supervisory Authority and the Austrian National Bank and to develop it into a powerful financial market police working with foreign supervisory authorities. We need to standardize the increase in criminal frameworks and the clear strengthening of sanctions in the case of infringements of law in the Banking Act. Regulatory arrangements for communication between all supervisory bodies, bank auditors, Supervisory Board, auditors, state commissioners, in particular the reporting requirements of audit authorities to the Supervisory Board or the Bank and auditors, should be standardised. We need a legal ban on the rejection of economic and banking auditors, state commissioners or staff of audit authorities into an employment relationship with the banks and financial service providers that they themselves audit, or their group companies by creating a period of suspension, proposal 18 months, in the Banking Act or in the relevant provisions. We need to create conditions and control principles for transactions between banks and non-owners, such as foundations, institutions and the like. There is also a need for a new system of bankruptcy, as is the review of judges. The improvement in the position of the common debtor in bankruptcy proceedings has become evident. The improvement of legal bases for the best possible exploitation of mass assets in bankruptcy is necessary. Legalisation of the inconsistencies and inconsistencies of judges, mass administrators and, in particular, of bankruptcy judges, as well as close inspection of the perception of inconsistency are a command of the hour. The reorganisation of the judgmental arsenate must be addressed. The increased use and strengthening of the position of visitors to the judicial review must be addressed. In the field of money laundering and its persecution, it is an hour to implement the EU money laundering directive quickly and to improve money laundering systems. The implementation of a system of suspicion reporting after threshold achievement should be remembered. A legal regime should be established for closer cooperation between money laundering agencies in the administrative and banking and financial services sectors. With regard to the Criminal Code, we have experienced it, measures urgently necessary: It is necessary to dramatically increase the criminal framework in the case of economic offences. In view of the amounts actually in play, minor fines do not deter a painter; Penalties shall be adapted to the economic performance of the perpetrators. The criminal act of money laundering must be standardised and created by the criminal act of loose conduct. In addition, I believe that, in view of the sale of the BAWAG, it is urgent, as many others do; I recall the Caribbean crisis 2 or the Cuba crisis, to start a re-examination of the leadership of the state accounts. A rapid repair of the Securities Supervision Act, in particular its §§ 23 ff, is necessary in respect of investor compensation. I now come to the House in an internal part, to my proposals, how to amend the Rules of Procedure for Investigation Committees and Rules of Procedure. I believe that it is necessary to establish the Committee of Inquiry in the smallest possible composition in accordance with the Shapley procedure. In this case, in the legislative period in which we are located, this would be a distribution as follows: ÖVP 2, SPÖ 2 and any group of the opposition would have a seat. The establishment and closure of an investigation committee and the loading of information are to be and must become minority law. The number of objects pending each year or at the same time may be limited. Investigation committees are in principle media-public; the investigative committee may, with appropriate quorum, be subject to the investigative committee's confidentiality. The Chairperson of the Committee of Inquiry shall be elected from among the members of the Committee. We should not give ourselves any rights where we have only a few here in this House. A substantial strengthening of the position of the chairman is necessary, in particular in the setting of dates, in the loading of information persons, in the interpretation of evidence decisions, in the management of proceedings, in the imposition of regulatory and flexible penalties et cetera. There is a need for a massive increase in the penalties for the economic performance of those affected. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, a maximum penalty framework of €1,000 for a person who does not appear to be an information person, for example Helmut Elsner, is a joke. I have thus mentioned the massive increase in the penalty. An alternate must be provided for the appointed lawyer in case of prevention. The terms “public servants” and “officials” must be synchronized, and it should be noted that only the function and not the service status is crucial in this regard. It is irrelevant whether a person is pragmatic or contract staff member, the framework term is “public staff”. To the file template: Documents submitted by authorities or offices may not be denied. In the case of legitimate interests, blackness is permitted, with the blackness to be made known. It shall justify, where appropriate, the ambiguities and assume responsibility for the wear and tear of the passages. It is also necessary to consider the adoption of directives in this context. In any case, an analogy to the activities of the Public Procuratorate should be considered. The lawyer should be given the opportunity to obtain the protocols. The group of persons in question for the position of a trustee and their status of proceedings should be redefined. Ladies and gentlemen! These recommendations, which, as I believe, can be obtained mainly or in total by a majority in this House, are necessary, and I do not wish to abstain from some of the findings which justify these recommendations. BAWAG: The greatest criminal case of this story, but not a singular act of an individual, but only on the basis of the possibility that there was a network inside and outside the bank, which ultimately enabled it to achieve such damage. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the alarming audit report of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank from 2001 on the internal revision or the internal risk assurance mechanisms of BAWAG was collectively ignored by the Oesterreichische Nationalbank and shubled, even hidden by the Federal Ministry of Finance. The BAWAG/P.S.K. merger or division balance sheet 2005 was approved by the financial market supervision in the summer of 2005 despite obvious system failures – the Caribbean losses would have become apparent in the course of an in-depth examination. This shortfall further contributed to the worsening of the BAWAG crisis; the last refco transfer of 438 million US dollars, almost 5 billion schilling, would therefore have been impossible. Financial market supervision had information that until 2006 loans from Wolfgang Flöttl from BAWAG to the Meinl Bank were still recovered – at a time when the so-called Caribbean business with BAWAG had already ended in total loss. Financial market supervision has not passed on the information it had to the Oesterreichische Nationalbank or the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Minister of Finance, out of service, Mag. Karl-Heinz Grasser has instrumentalized the resources of the Ministry of Finance in 2005 and 2006. It has set politically motivated reporting targets to the BAWAG Accounting Court Subcommittee in 2006 and to the Investigation Committee. In addition, he has arranged agreements between the investigators of the Committee of Inquiry and directed the coordination of the file and documentation transmission – or better, the non-transmission. Excurssion: Counsellor Vrannitzky: As a further partial aspect of the BAWAG business performance under Director General Elsner, Wolfgang Flöttl's activities are to consider the payment of an advisor's fee – via Elsner's intervention – to former Federal Chancellor Dr. Franz Vranitzky at the level of 1 million Schilling. In front of the investigation committee, the contradiction already mediated remained in the statements of Flöttls and Vranitzkys. Vranitzky wants to advise Flöttl for the already fully-fledged euro changeover, Flöttl insists on his finding that there was nothing to advise and Vranitzky accepted the money without providing an adequate counter-performance. A connection between Dr. Franz Vranitzky's process-cost-payment obligation from the lost Pretterebner process and the dubious advisory contract for payment of the costs remained in the dark. – In any case, Dr. Vranitzky's statement on the costs of the proceedings is contrary to the written statement of his lawyer: While Vrannitzky said that the SPÖ Parliamentary Club had paid the costs, his lawyer said Dr. Vrannitzky paid it himself. MobileTel/Horngacher: The business with MobilTel was handled at the expense of the Austrian Telekom customers and the shareholders of Telekom Austria; BAWAG was brought to the bank's share of profit. In addition, the modest BAWAG profit was transferred to Mag. Martin Schlaef transfers over four U.S. companies so that Caribbean losses can be covered. In this transaction, BAWAG has paid a further loss of $1 million in unnecessary premiums for the cover-up of true circumstances. – In this context, I would like to remind you of the following: A profit of € 1 billion before taxes has resulted in BAWAG, who has been a shareholder, ultimately receiving only a small batch of € 70 million and using these funds to cover losses. The trustee and financing structure of the MobileTel sales should conceal the actual ownership structure from the Bulgarian authorities in order to avert a licence withdrawal from the Russian oligarch Michael Chernoy. The Austrian participants such as BAWAG and the group Taus/Cordt – consciously or unconsciously – supported this concealment action of the Oligarchenduos Schlaff/Chernoy. From the highest political level – the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – as well as from renowned Austrian personalities such as Benita Ferrero-Waldner, Leo Wallner and Josef Taus, there were equally worrying interventions in favour of Mikhail Chernoys. In addition to Taus, the investigation committee would have invited the persons who were sleeping and cordt, as well as the former director of Telekom Austria Heinz Sundt, the ÖIAG Board of Directors, Supervisory Board and Audit Committee Chairman of Telekom, Rainer Wieltsch, as well as the Financial Board of Telekom Austria, Stefano Colombo. Following the publication of the end of the Committee of Inquiry as early as May 2007 with June 2007, the information subjects could be apologised in series for the loading dates. Thus, no representative of Telekom or ÖIAG could be asked why the MobileTel was purchased by more than double the original purchase price to the detriment of shareholders and telephone customers. As a result of the early termination of the Committee of Inquiry, this subject-matter could not be resolved without delay. Casino Jericho: In 2001, BAWAG valued the participation of the casino closed in 2000 following the Intifada casinos in Jericho in the balance sheet from € 5 to € 120 million, while Casinos Austria depreciated to zero euros. This partially covered the losses arising from the Caribbean operations. This balance sheet manipulation was approved by Dr. Reiter, head of KPMG's annual audit company. In addition, Foreign Minister Benita Ferrero-Waldner intervened in favour of a second casino project, a casino ship by Martin Schlaff and the casinos Austria in Eilat on the Red Sea, at the Israeli interior and foreign ministry. As the file of the investigation committee shows, there is also a reasonable suspicion that illegal money flows from Austria have flown to the Sharon family. The Israeli judicial authorities’ requests for legal assistance were treated step-by-step by 2006 by the Republic of Austria. As a result of the early termination of the investigation committee, this subject-matter could not be unexplained. To the State Commissioners: In principle, two different cultures have been identified in the sent practice of the State Commissioners: Prior to 2000, top officials of the Ministry of Finance were rewarded with state commissioner posts among the Social Democratic Finance Ministers, after being taken over by Minister of Finance Karl-Heinz Grasser, the Banking Act was amended in 2001 and cabinet staff with additional income. The State Commissioners have essentially proved themselves to be a toothless supervisory instrument; The fact is that in none of the cases examined, the State Commissioners have been able to contribute to the detection of losses and malversations. This led to the fact that a statutory control body has remained de facto ineffective. Hypo Alpe-Adria: Financial market supervision has acted very quickly and efficiently in the case of swap losses. It immediately returned ad as the suspicion of the balance sheet falsification stood in the room. In their reports, the auditors of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank often found irregularities and violations of laws, but at best left it in the case of recommendations whose implementation or implementation by the Bank was never verified by the auditors of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank. As mentioned earlier, it was similar with the state commissioners. The ever-increasing losses in the last few years in both the credit business and the Treasury are due to the lack of the bank's structure, but provided for by the law. The deficiencies detected have always been pushed aside by the auditors, bearing in mind the rapid growth of the bank; the inactivity of the internal revision is partly due to this development. Bagatellisation of the defects was facilitated by the superficiality of audit and control activities carried out by the auditors of the Austrian National Bank or the Financial Market Supervisory Board and the State Commissioners. Whether financial market supervision has overreacted to the ongoing management qualification process and may have forced the appointment of the Board of Directors unnecessarily, how many other issues of this complex could be resolved by the premature end of the investigation committee. The Kärntner Landtage Examining Committee is now required on this issue. Money laundering: Some Austrian banks, despite increasing risk potentials due to transactions in the south-eastern and eastern European countries, partially have only a lack of control systems or a questionable reporting culture. The competent authorities, in particular financial market supervision and the money laundering reporting office in the Federal Criminal Office, are under-occupied and double-tracks result from the transfer of money laundering to another department in the event of cases of organised crime. The increasing complex trusts and the increasing commitment of the Austrian economy in countries with high money laundering potential require effective control systems. As a result of the early termination of the investigation committee, the investigation committee was not able to explain this subject without delay. The same was true of the responsibility of members of the government, where, in the absence of consultation possibilities, this part could not be explained without delay. Part-financing: The tax acts of the ÖGB and its sub-union and associated undertakings, adopted and requested by the Examining Committee, have not been received until the end of the investigation committee, or have been refused by the Ministry of Finance. The acquisition of the tax records of Mag. Martin Schlaef, Dr. Herbert Cordt, Dr. Josef Taus, Michael Hazon and many more were repeatedly and largely rejected by the Committee of Inquiry. Accordingly, the Committee of Inquiry has not been able to deal with this subject as a result of the early termination and non-representative documents and documents. AMIS: The following findings are to be made: Substanceless and premature concession issued in 1999 by the Federal Securities Supervisory Board. The Federal Securities Supervisory Board or its subsequent FMA, the Financial Market Supervisory Board, has for years had knowledge of administrative procedures and other infringements of almost all concession requirements without initiating comprehensive administrative procedures. The Federal Securities Supervisory Board or its subsequent financial market supervision has also not sufficiently pursued many years of infringements and suspicions at AMIS due to unauthorised holding of customer funds – this is an inadmissible banking business. For years, the Federal Securities Supervisory Board or the FMA also tolerated the distribution of the Top Ten Multifonds SICAV from 1999 to 2003 without a marketing authorisation – the public distribution was granted on 22 January 2003. ==References====External links==* Official website A deception of the capital market through false findings in the audit reports is on the agenda – sometimes one could think the managing directors sitting behind grids today have written the test reports themselves. As a result, false findings have been made regarding the buyback of funds. Financial market supervision was already notified in 2001 that the AMIS carries out collectibles, but nevertheless in January 2002 it confirmed individual deposits for customers. The concession award 2002 to the 100 percent subsidiary AMIS Financial Consulting AG was grossly negligent. Following the suspension of the AMIS Fund SICAV 2004 in Luxembourg, no special audit measures were initiated. The investor compensation – called AeW in short – is not adequately regulated. The corresponding law of 1999 does not know any culprits on the grounds of damages, therefore merely suggests compensation opportunities which are not given. Therefore, in the event of a judicial condemnation of the investor compensation company for damages in the current AMIS process, it is argued. Request for legal aid Liechtenstein: ==References== In July 2006, a request for legal aid was received from the Landesgericht für Kriegsanfahren Wien to the Principality of Liechtenstein. The Examining Committee was sent by the Federal Ministry of Justice to files confirming the facts. ==References== On 1 August 2006, the Austrian authorities supported the search in Liechtenstein by Austrian investigative officers. At five addresses at 25 foundations or companies, house searches were carried out, over 130 file registers were confiscated and all accounting data was secured by an IT specialist. The competent prosecutor Georg Krakow, including BAWAG-Chefanklagger in the trial, has therefore responded correctly and in time. Atomic – an Austrian moving fate –: The bankruptcy of the company AFS – Atomic for Sport – was directed and maliciously brought about by the controllers of BAWAG. The liabilities of Atomic for Sport were opposed to assets and sufficient collateral, so that the creditors of Atomic for Sport received a quota of almost 94 percent, including payments made by Alois Rohrmoser on account of the broad personal liability of the Commercial Council. – In addition, it must be seen that the satisfaction rate of the unsecured exposures plus the total cost of the insolvency and recovery process amounted to just under 104 percent of the outstanding liabilities at the time of bankruptcy. As a result, there was a total lack of over-indebtedness under continued conditions. A majority of creditors were not sufficiently certified at the BAWAG's bankruptcy. Three claim confirmations were attached to the bankruptcy application as a means of certification. A confirmation came from Elsner himself and was addressed to his lawyer. This shows that Commercial Council Rohrmoser of the Salzburger Sparkasse owes an amount of 30 million Schillings; Elsner had asked about this because of a telephone call with the Sparkasse Salzburg. – This information was objectively incorrect, as only a much lower amount was outstanding. Moreover, this information – if it has been so – could only be obtained through a breach of banking secrecy, i.e. illegal. The two other means of certification are not claims against Atomic for Sport, but claims against Koflach. Both were by Dkfm. Zwettler, the subsequent Director-General of BAWAG, for the two Dublin Factoring companies. In any event, these circumstances could have been easily identified by the incoming bankruptcy judge in the case of a plausibility test, which would have prevented the invading bankruptcy. There was no further objective bankruptcy-judicial monitoring of both bankruptcy proceedings. The bankruptcy proceedings themselves were not fair proceedings because of the arbitrariness of the judge manifesting in many individual decisions. The criminal proceedings conducted against representatives of the BAWAG, against the mass administration and against the bankruptcy judge due to concrete and substantial ads of the public prosecutors Salzburg and Steyr were terminated without investigation in the case itself. According to the Committee's conviction, proper investigations would have led to the conclusion, at the latest in 1998, that the mass administrators and the bankruptcy judge in the Causa Atomic should no longer have been allowed to remain active. The BAWAG has already begun to prepare about one year before the bankruptcy application against fidelity and faith, and using the long-term trust relationship, which, as a result, opened up the option of an unfriendly takeover through bankruptcy, such as the offsetting of over-income interest rates of 14 percent p.a. – thus alone in 1993 and 1994 around 278 million schilling. For example, the overdraft of the credit frame at the time of bankruptcy can be explained in full with the above interest charged by the BAWAG. The Amer, buyer of the AFS – Atomic for Sport – has spent significantly less than 400 million schilling net for the purchase and without further consideration of the patents and trademark rights paid to her without further remuneration, including these rights, practically at zero tariff, the assets of the Austrian ski market leader. In addition, the sale of Amer was agreed and approved before a final asset status existed and even before all bankruptcy claims were registered, so to speak, in the blind flight. Another part of BAWAG's representative's culprits, the mass administrator or the concurrency judge were the documented diverse and harassous attempts to make journalists, bookists, experts, a popular lawyer and the investigating gendarmerie officials mouthed by criminal charges, complaints or threats of complaint. The criminal department of the Landesgendarmeriekommando Salzburg, which had previously made extensive investigations on behalf of the public prosecutor Innsbruck and which had a substantial presentation of the facts at the end of 1997, was expressly prohibited from further investigations. In the context of several, also active, violent interventions by BAWAG Director-General Elsner at the then Minister of the Interior Schlögl, criminal and disciplinary proceedings were initiated personally against the investigating general army officials. [[Abg. Krainer: There were three years in between! There was already Straster and no Schlögl!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the limited time available to me – there are still a number of findings in this context – I believe that the work of the Committee of Inquiry on three to four other days would have led to a complete investigation of many of the hard-to-earth research items. I am sorry that there has not even been the willingness to negotiate this statement, which I believe is carried out in the substance by the majority of the House, and also the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry at any time. However, because of the reports submitted by ÖVP and SPÖ and the Freedom Party and also the opinions of the BZÖ and the Greens, I know that we would have agreed in 90 percent of all the findings and measures that would have taken place. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] We should have ended the marathon. That's the problem. I hope that with this decision taken by the majority, contrary to the agreements reached elsewhere, we have not caused lasting damage to this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e3647	I would like to thank Mr Committeeobmann for his statement. There were 37 minutes in total – as an orientation for your group. The next speaker is Mr Krainer. Speech time: 12 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e3671	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, thank you to all the staff of this House who have enabled these 400 hours of investigation committee: the professional support of the lawyers, all the staff of the House, the Parliamentary stenographers, but also the clubs. Of course, I would like to thank the staff of my club, Dr. Fisler, for Mrs. Mag. Angelo, at Dominik Pezenka, at Marion Kugi and at all the other staff members of the club who have made it possible to run this marathon – to the end – as we mean. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My group has tried to meet the audit task, in the entire work, in the surveys, in the preparation, by focusing on controlling the offices and the authorities responsible for financial market supervision as a whole – whether this is the Ministry of Finance, the Austrian National Bank, the Financial Market Supervision, the system of auditors and Supervisory Boards, everything we are legally responsible for here, especially with the investor compensation of investment services companies. We have not tried to play any substitute state attorney or the like. My group has also submitted its own report to the Committee, which has just under 100 pages and which, I believe, is essentially sufficient to answer all the audit tasks, which can also answer the questions that the plenary has given us here in October and provide sufficient answers to the open questions that have been raised. In summary, when I look at the essential parts of financial market supervision, there are two larger authorities responsible: on the one hand, the Austrian National Bank and on the other hand, the FMA, the Financial Market Supervisory Authority. The fact that almost all the objects of our examination have been shown is that the Oesterreichische Nationalbank – perfect is no authority, nowhere – has essentially shone through experienced employees, through competent employees, through an organization that also has an international reputation, and through a very professional work. On the other hand, financial market supervision has been very different in our audits. They were sometimes overwhelmed, some have made negligent decisions, some have failed absolutely – in the example AMIS one sees the clearest – and unprofessionally acted. It is not true that all employees at the FMA are bad, no one wants to say that, but this financial market supervision has provided the picture of a mourning game from the Executive Board downwards as an authority. I think that is something that all participants and all observers can also underline that this was an absolute finding. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Now that I cannot present the 18 audit orders here in 12 minutes, which the Committee chairman did not succeed in the 37 minutes, I would like to limit myself to a few points. My other colleagues in the Group will then make the other parts. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Talk about the ones you turned away! Talk about party funding! ... Sleep... Gusenbauer have paid fast! How much did she get from the ÖGB?]] The first part I would like to address here, Mr Kogler, is the question of the breach of official secrecy and banking secrecy by financial market supervision. The Committee of Inquiry has demonstrated that the data supplied by the Commission on 1 January 2000 were not available to the Commission. September 2006 in a daily SPÖ credit paper at BAWAG, which is the data that the financial market supervision of the SPÖ has researched. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The OeNB too!]] This can be explained very easily here: ==References== September in a daily newspaper in Austria the credit data of the SPÖ of July 1999, of September 1999, of July 2000 and – without a month’s notice – of the year 2003. As a source, BAWAG's Executive Board protocols were specified. When that appeared, SPÖ sent a letter to the Austrian National Bank and to the Financial Market Supervisory Board and asked for information on whether these data came from one of these two authorities. The Oesterreichische Nationalbank has made an investigation, examined the queries of the large credit evidence and found that an OeNB employee has made queries. Three surveys, and all three do not concern the data and the periods that have been published in the newspaper. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: There were more questions! 18 Polls!]] However, they have also looked at the questions made by financial market supervision. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: 18 inquiries of the OeNB!]] It surveyed every month all data from 1999, 2000 and 2001 and annually, without monthly survey, the years 2002, 2003 and the following. Let's take a look at what was said in the paper: 1999 and 2000 monthly and annual data and in 2003 no monthly data – precisely in quality, exactly parallel to the data requested by financial market supervision. Financial market supervision has also responded to this letter, but with the Lapidar words: It wasn't us. The employee who wrote this letter had us in the committee, and he told us that he had the task of the board of directors to simply answer this letter as it was answered without any internal investigation. Why didn't there be an investigation? – Quite simply, because the board of directors knew where these data came from, namely from their own authority. Within ten minutes you can check that because of the data that the authority had, and because of those that are in the newspaper, the quantity, the quality – everything – is the same. Now, of course, we have also asked the board of directors about this. They came and said it couldn't have been us because we don't have BAWAG's Board of Directors protocols. We have explicitly asked whether they have requested them in any way, with exception or with the like. - No, we didn't, they said. And what did the committee reveal? – They had them, they had BAWAG’s Executive Board Protocol extracts! They requested them from the Public Prosecutor's Office, and they were sent on the same day, on 11 May. August. [[Abg. Strache: Why do you prevent three points from being controlled by the Committee of Inquiry? Why don't you talk about the essentials?]] A week later, they were presented to the Board of Directors, and he said, please check if we find more in the large credit survey. [[Abg. Bitch: Cover!]] A week later, it was reported, with all the data that were then also found in the newspaper; as a basis for the Board of Directors' Protocol extracts, and a week later it was in the newspaper. The Board of Directors of the Financial Market Supervision has been hiding there. In this authority, banking secrecy was broken, the silence of office was broken, and the board of directors did not do what they were required by law to check if that came from their authority. She didn't do anything, she just covered up. In truth, one is now required to act here. This is the Federal Minister for Finance. In fact, under the Financial Market Supervision Act, he is legally obliged to discharge and withdraw from the office of the Board of Directors who act in a grossly non-compulsory manner. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The whole complex is legally a marginal theme!]] . The matter behind this is, if this is not a grossly non-compulsory act, if your own authority breaks a banking secrecy and the silence of office, then I do not know what a board of directors still has to do or conceal that it fulfils the crime of gross non-compulsoryness. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Now the bomb is over!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Please refer to the ad from the cap!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Cite Dr. Cap's fine! That would be interesting!]] But that was not all we found out about this authority, and about how this system worked. In fact, the Grasser system is behind it: its own people, the cabinet staff, to become the board of directors there and then to be served by these authorities. He did so on other questions, for example in this famous questionnaire, which Mr Kogler presented to the Committee. There is a questionnaire – Mr Graf has already started this – to the Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors, which first set out the objectives, namely: First of all, no errors by the authorities, second of all: SPÖ network responsible for the damage in BAWAG and the ÖGB, no economic competence, and thirdly: ÖVP/BZÖ government saves the BAWAG and 1.3 million people from the pleite. – All possible measures, such as SPÖ networks, lead all SPÖs who have had something to do with it in some way, and then ask questions about it. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: All facts!]] What does the authority do if she gets such a questionnaire? - She doesn't send him back and she says: Sorry, we are not the propaganda of the ÖVP!, no, she answers it. And the chiefs come and say: We cannot choose the questions, but we give the answers ourselves! – On the basis of the e-mail transport, we have proved that the Grasser Cabinet was able to choose the answers and specifically instructed by e-mail to change the answers by adding to the replies other facts that the authority itself did not write in. [[Abg. Hornek: Adelheid!]] – “Adelheid, it’s so far!” that was the last mail. Yeah, it went through the newspapers. But these were clear requirements. We have been able to prove beyond the e-mail traffic that this authority has also done one more thing, namely that the questions and answers were not only for the Minister, but also for the Board of Directors of the FMA independent independent authority. They both said yes, I brought them, that was part of my speech there. A witness agreement, a meeting was held here. The questions could be asked, and the best thing was that the Board of Management said Traumüller himself, yes, there were errors by the authorities, namely, the act of 2001 that BAWAG did not read. But he did not write it in, because that would have contradicted the goal – no errors of the authorities. This is a way of dealing with politics with this authority and with people in that authority who like it. The third essential area was how the Meinl Bank was protected. The FMA had information that the Meinl Bank is doing millions of business with Flöttl, that Flöttl is not mediocre, while at the same time the justice and the OeNB were framing for it. She kept this information from the other authorities for almost a year because she wanted to protect her Minister for Finance Grasser and not bring it into the headlines – in advance, this happened. What we see is that financial market supervision has not acted independently, but has been a tool of party-political propaganda – and this will also be explained to me by many other examples – and has not acted independently, but has been a tool of party-political propaganda – not only in the election campaign, but throughout the time of its existence. This is a state which cannot be accepted by this House, and I am therefore glad that there is a joint motion for a resolution that the structure of this authority and the authority itself must be reformed. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] One final question as a final point. The EIA will have to consider: Is it on the side of those who break the official secret, break the banking secret and hide it, or is it on the side of justice and justice? [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e3895	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. Speech time: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e3916	Madam President. Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we are discussing today the outcome of a committee of inquiry on financial market supervision, of eight months. I would just like to remind you that the EIA was the only group that voted against this committee of inquiry. [[Abg. May. Kogler: everybody knows that!]] I have to say today, after eight months, that attitude was right, ladies and gentlemen, and I am going to justify it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Wrong!]] First of all, ladies and gentlemen: This Committee of Inquiry has criminalised the Austrian financial centre for over eight months. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You said that!]] The whole financial world – from New York via London to Tokyo – knew that our banks in Central and Eastern Europe are so successful in facing the accusation – whose proof of truth has never occurred, Dr. Graf – that they are involved in large-scale money laundering. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler]] If this is not an image damage to the Austrian financial centre, ladies and gentlemen!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. May. Kogler: Because you cover up...! Hindiful!]] Governor Liebscher has explained to us in the Financial Committee, and at every meeting abroad he is asked by his colleagues: What is going on in Austria, in Austria, banking supervision does not work? – This is a damage to the Austrian financial centre, and that is why we have kept line, Mr Rossmann. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Rossmann: That's not true!]] The second is: What is the task of a committee of inquiry? – He is not a substitute for the prosecutor, he is not a substitute for the criminal court, he is not a substitute for the Court of Auditors. He has political responsibility to clarify, and he has to determine where there are weaknesses in legislation or enforcement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] We have dealt with topics that are all mature for the courts: The BAWAG trial starts in a few days, Hypo Alpe-Adria is mature for the courts, the AMIS case is in court, the prosecutor is dealing with sleep. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the task of the Committee of Inquiry. I claim that we have spent at least 70 percent of our time dealing with questions that belong to the courts and to the prosecutor. This is not the task of the Committee of Inquiry, as has been said. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: You weren't there 70 percent of the time! What are you talking about? You weren't there at all!]] The third thing is: It cannot be disputed that, of course, a committee of inquiry for a government coalition is not the ideal one. Mr Cap, that is our opinion. It has been released incredibly negative energy. Unbelievably many working capacities have been practically wasted. And I would have been very pleased if we had used these eight months to talk to Tacheles about the reform of financial market supervision, talk about the reform of investor compensation, talk Tacheles about how we need to change something in the field of auditors and auditors. – No, we have spent eight months in the past, ladies and gentlemen! I admit one thing: We got some morals, morals, as happened in the BAWAG, where the bank auditor became a consultant a few years later, where a chief officer of the BAWAG was in marital bonds with the staff in the central bank. [[Abg. Krainer: Take a position on Grasser!]] [[Abg. Krainer: That's not true!]] Of course, we got this moral image – and we discovered something else. Mr Graf, you are quite right, quite sensational: There, where people work, mistakes also happen. For example, we have discovered that a 28-year-old member of the FMA, who had been in the FMA for exactly five months at that time, was unable to post the § 38(2) of the Banking Act on an intensive question by the colleague Krainer. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Where the ÖVP is, is intrigued! Say something about money laundering!]] [[Abg. Krainer: She was asked if she had any idea of data protection!]] That's what we've discovered, ladies and gentlemen. Yes, no question where people work, mistakes also happen. But if we look – and everyone can read it – what the Examining Committee has done about the reform of financial market supervision, the reform of investor compensation, for the reform of bank auditors, then I must say that the proposals in there have confirmed what we already knew before. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] But I admit, of course, Dr. Graf: There was a lot new for those colleagues in the Committee who had been intensively involved in financial matters for the first time. No question at all! On the reform of financial market supervision. What we, the two government parties, have anchored in the Coalition Pact will happen. We need reforms in order to deal with the cross-border problem with the central bank. We need to eliminate double-tracks, we need more efficiency-enhancing measures, we need to do more on-the-spot testing. That's all in the coalition pact. The Committee has discovered nothing new – including the Court of Auditors report. [[Abg. Krainer: Take a position on Grasser, on political responsibility!]] The Court of Auditors report has recently confirmed these weaknesses, which are already in the coalition pact. This means that new concrete results for the reform of financial market supervision were undoubtedly not available. [[Abg. Strache: Why did you... that... can't be agreed?]] Let us take the example of investor compensation, ladies and gentlemen. We decided on this institution in 1999, then under Minister of Finance Edlinger. The rapporteur in the financial committee was a certain Dr. Gusenbauer – Alfred Gusenbauer – who explained that we are implementing an EU directive and creating an optimal investor compensation. [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] Today we have to note that with a volume of about €5 million, no greater damage can be covered. We need reforms here. We have already known this before, since we have already received letters from the investor compensation because it must be a nonsense, please that those who adhere to laws are liable for those who violate the laws. That can't be true! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: If you knew everything, we should have loaded you as an information person!]] Mr Rossmann was right here: This is a structural error in that law presented by Mr. Finanzminister Edlinger at the time and explained by Dr. Gusenbauer that this was a great investor compensation. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: You have acted negligently as chairman of the Financial Committee!]] Let's take the bank auditors, Dr. Graf: We have already received proposals from the Chamber of Economic Trustees before the Banking Committee on how to implement reforms here. [[Abg. Krainer: Take a position on Grasser at last!]] Again: Of course, all of this was new for those who did not previously deal with it. I would like to admit that is not an accusation either, Mr Graf. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We should have loaded you!]] That is what we have said, and we would not have needed a committee of inquiry with 40 meetings for eight months, with 400 hours of sitting, with 6 000 pages of minutes. By the way, a great deal of thanks to Parliament's stenographers, who worked in part until the morning hours. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I can also say one thing, ladies and gentlemen: No private entrepreneur could afford that employees should work until 5 a.m. and be back at 9 a.m. because, for example, the Federal Council is meeting. No private businessman is supposed to do that! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Because you have the appointment...!]] If Mr Graf, because I know what he is going to say afterwards – and you have to say that – is creating a private archive required by the Parliamentary Directorate of Paper Copies to the extent of 19 running metres, I think this is a provocation of the taxpayer, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] 19 Runmeter copies to be able to discuss press talks for months on the basis of these files. That's the real reason, Dr. Graf! Admit it, be so honest! The future will prove it. What to do Do you have 19 running metres of files from the Banking Committee? [[Abg. Krainer: You don't know what they do with it at all!]] [[Abg. May. Rossmann: How many meters of files have you read?]] Ladies and gentlemen, one last point. The accusation, which will now come from all the opposition speakers, is: The coalition strangled that – before the really important questions arrived. Mr. Graf, dear friends of the opposition! They had in these eight months at any time the majority, the majority who had set up this committee. You could have said in February: Money laundering is so important, we invite the witnesses in February. Mr. Dr. Taus himself said he wanted to get along before Christmas last year. I made proposals and submitted requests to invite Dr. Taus earlier. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Kogler and rhinestone.]] Dr Graf did not allow this motion to be put to the vote by means of Rules of Procedure. So come on. That's not why you're doing it now! I do not deliberately say “hypocritical” because otherwise, Madam President, I will get a call for order. But come on. It is not, therefore, with a great lamentation that we could not have questioned the most important persons. I have repeatedly proposed – Mr Graf, you know that too – in group leaders' meetings: If we change the time priorities, we prefer certain agendas you value! We've been working constructively for months, we've decided on every witness charge you wanted. That at the end of the holiday period cancelled, that was to be anticipated. That is why I have proposed to prefer certain topics to prefer the surveys of sleep and dew. You've rejected all of this. Please don't shed crocodile tears now, Dr. Graf! That's really not fair. That's not fair, these are crocodile tears. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: This is a real hypocrisy of the ÖVP!]] I say again: I am glad that this committee is now over and that we are immediately taking up those reforms that are necessary to reform financial market supervision, to reform investor compensation, to reform the bank auditors. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] Let us take advantage of the time, because Parliament's task is not to keep up with it in the past, the task is to shape the future and accept those challenges so that citizens can live safely in this country in the future, even as far as the financial sector is concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e4314	Next, Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 12 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e4336	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! With so much to show on-the-spot sanctity, you really can stay away from the spit!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e4357	Ladies and gentlemen, I give you a call for an order for "sacrifice".
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e4375	Mr President, you are the best speaker in this Parliament, as we know. It would no longer have required your speech to enable the media representatives and television audiences to learn that the ÖVP has absolutely nothing to do with the hat with control in Parliament. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Please go!]] They still live in the state of the 18th. In the 19th century, when the executive examined himself – and nothing else. This is once again the typical picture that you are here the extended workbench of the government bank and those of the party headquarters of the ÖVP. But we're going to go to the bottom of things that you're trying to prevent them from being examined. But the row after: Let us take a brief look at what this committee of inquiry has to do with it! In fact, it is certain that the Committee of Inquiry, which has received the most extensive inspection mandate, has ever received a committee of inquiry in this House. That's it. He certainly has – and this will prove the future, as we meet in a number of points – the biggest consequences for changes for the future – that is, exactly what you have accused. However, you should not have waited until now. [[Call the ÖVP: Neither do you!]] - No, no, wait! It was already apparent last year where the weaknesses are. The investigative committee has duly demonstrated where the weaknesses are: in the central bank, in financial market supervision, in the entire financial market surveillance system, even in the supervisory sector within banks. [[Abg. Strache: You prevented it!]] There will still be radical recommendations – at least our group – today and here. We have presented them some of last year. That is why it is totally unacceptable to point out that there is something in the government programme that should finally be implemented. As you have just set out thin three lines for the reform of financial market supervision, no one would have prevented the government negotiators from moving forward. Now I ask you: What does this have to do with the fact that a few test points are affected – others are not at all at all, just because the ÖVP and SPÖ are not able to negotiate a reform – but other test points that have nothing to do with this subject are to be turned off, namely those for the fight against money laundering and for the disclosure of party donations? – We will have a lot of fun when we come to talk about it now! Mr Cap! Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. Why is it prevented us from combating money laundering, fighting organized crime – which has infiltrated at Vienna's bank square – that's the problem! – operate? [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Eight months you had time!]] [[Abg. Strache: Eight months they had time to reveal it – now they cover it!]] – What does it mean that “eight months you had time”? Let's take this call of call gratefully! This is the hypocrisy of the square!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e4463	Member of the European Parliament, please refuse the ban on "sacrifice"!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e4478	I certainly can't do that because I can't find any other words about it. I wonder at all that the ÖVP does not already have this sham
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e4500	There is a consensus here in the House that the word “hypocritical” does not correspond to the dignity of the house. A few minutes ago, I gave you a call for order!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e4526	Nevertheless, let us come to the things that will surely justify these terms! We do not want to participate in the negotiations on the reform points that will come here. I would like to say to you that there will be more to it than this tired motion for a resolution that you are today bringing into which the government groups are writing that in the autumn there should be something that they have already stated in the Government Agreement in January that they want to present it. Is this compromise intended to ensure that the investigation committee is shut down today? Was that your whole compromise, colleague Cap? With three and a half pages you have entered the negotiations. My prognosis was that as always, you would come out with half a page and fall down. But there's nothing going on – just the resolution to talk about what we started talking about last year! This is the government's progressive policy in this area! [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] But we can help you get to the jumps. We really need radical reforms. It is not to be seen that the banks are co-owners of the central bank; the central bank that the banks have to review. They all belong out, especially raiffeisen, not just the BAWAG. We'll see how far we get! [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Next point: The state commissioners are such a sad event that you can immediately and replace them with the best conscience, especially if you improve other points. Bank and auditors must finally be subjected to rotation; a maximum of five years as reported by the chairman. It is an insanity that the banks are able to choose themselves for a long time; these are then still financially dependent on them. Then you should not be surprised when something like that comes out in the BAWAG or in the hypo! - That's exactly the causes. We have already had a request put forward by the Greens here in Parliament. He has already done so, the external rotation has even been decided! Only because of the interventions that have been made by the EIA, does this request - which has now entered into force - not apply again, because it has had a stockpiling period of two or three years! That's what it looks like. That was before the BAWAG scandal. Now I'm excited about how it goes on. These proposals will be very numerous. We also have a four-sided motion for a resolution here, and we will be delighted to see how it continues. I believe that the most important point is the fight against money laundering, because it has been turned off in the committee, or is about to happen. I don't think that's a cavalier crime. Let us now deal with this problem so that we can understand what is to be prevented here. We have just mentioned that representatives of the Central Bank of Raiffeisen wanted to have half the Parliament – and the parliamentarians who formulated this investigation eight months ago – judicial interests. – This is a state like South America, however, before democracy was introduced. That is how Raiffeisen imagines how to deal with Parliament! The bad thing about this is that the SPÖ is going to get into the knee before something like that; that has been confessed to me. Okay, you could make a deal, you don't have to negotiate everything publicly; but that you don't even negotiate it, that's bad! In fact, this Committee of Inquiry has promoted that Parliament should not comply with its parliamentary obligations – that is a bad understanding, but it is a knowledge – and that the government alone does not rule, Mr Vice-chancler, but that you yourself are obviously dependent on certain hunting companies – who are wandering around at the Raiffeisen Group headquarters above – and what is munched from Lower Austrian high seats. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: I don't have a hunting license!]] That is obviously the state of this Republic. You don't have a hunting license, but we know who's supposed to be. [[Abg. Dr. Schelling: Loud submissions!]] If you go to the file room and look at what you find there – by the way, documents that have been sent in the last moment, 15 000 pages that cannot be copied through which you have to work hard day and night – then you could not agree with your conscience that this committee is being strangled today. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] What do we find there? – We stay at the Raiffeisen complex: There are clear indications from various supervisory authorities – of course outside Austria – that Raiffeisen Investment, an indirect subsidiary of the Raiffeisen Central Bank, has done business with strawmen of those people who clearly belong to the largest criminal organisation in Russia. That's the accusation. We could not confirm this in the committee, I say. This may not be our task, because here the judge would rather be on the square – moment, now it comes! . but the Committee is prevented from reviewing the processes that have led to this. [[Interruption calls at ÖVP and BZÖ]] What were these transactions? – The US authorities deliver a document to the Ministry of Finance, Financial Market Supervision and the Ministry of the Interior. Each of these three authorities has reacted differently. The Ministry of Finance has said: That's not a suspicion of money laundering, get out of here! The Federal Criminal Office has been prevented from investigating – very interesting! This was delegated to the Financial Market Supervision, which would not be responsible at all. Officials in the financial market supervision have looked at this, supposedly. We don't get the corresponding files, Mr. Vice-Chancellor! To date, they have refused to transmit these files – with sound arguments from the Financial Procuratorship; that house and court office, which obviously has to become more and more Molterer’s monopoly expertise; a disability agency for all the investigation committees. What's the point here? – The documents clearly point out that Raiffeisen Investment is linked to these transactions. - So far the accusations. The documents disappear. We asked them, but they will not be transmitted. We know that the case of the Raiffeisen Central Bank is no longer committed in FMA. But what's even worse: Those officials who have examined this case – if they can say so at all – have been expelled from financial market supervision after a few months. And where do you think she is? It has been hired and is immediately transferred from the FMA to the Raiffeisen Central Bank! This, ladies and gentlemen, is forbidden in other countries, and rightly so. This is also one of the findings of this Committee of Inquiry and will also be reflected in our recommendations. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] It can't be that auditors of the central bank or any other institution switch to those institutions that have examined them immediately before, but that must inform everyone! I have to say to my shame, I didn't know that our laws against such a thing don't suggest any bars. But we will fix that quickly! – No, that is not professional ban, Mr Vice-Chancellor, you know that very well! [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: Make a professional ban!]] This simply means that within a cooling break of three or five years, no change is made to the banks that have just been checked; as in other countries. That must also be accessible to your house mind! Let's come to an intermediate summary: This committee will therefore be strangled because certain items are not allowed to come to the surface on the agenda. It should not be examined which political networks prevent the authorities from taking rigorous action against money laundering. We have the interveners in the files – you can no longer see them, and the public should no longer be informed. This is the principle of swirling and swirling, and that is why this term is justified.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e4685	The next item is Mr Stadler's speech; 11 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e4713	Madam President. High house! The ÖVP acts like a mill and claims that the investigation committee is at risk of Austria's bank place. [[Call the ÖVP:Yes!]] Today, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, you have said that, please, yesterday, today you have raised yourself up, and the investigative committee is criminalizing the bank place. He also confirms that, the Günter stupid. This, please, from a man who was still proud to ask his questions in committee without studying the files. – So much on the subject of my colleague’s expertise in the context of this committee of inquiry, ladies and gentlemen. It was never your concern to clarify these processes. According to the Austrian People's Party, the activities of the investigators endanger investor confidence. If we abolish the criminal police, we will abolish the economic police – they will, according to ÖVP and Günter Stummvoll, risk all the bank square Austria! [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Look beyond the edge of the plate, Mr. Colleague!]] – Not the activities of the investigating committee, not the activities of the investigators endanger the Austrian banking centre, but the acts of the perpetrators endanger the banking centre of Austria, Mr Colleague stupid, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with FPÖ and Greens.]] In fact, with the ignorance of the control bodies, they endanger the Austrian bank. – Now he already weighs his head, now he is thinking about it – without having studied the files. [[in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Muted]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Go, please!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schelling: Now we know where the term “wild parliamentarian” comes from!]] It is not the activity of the investigation committees and the investigators that threatens the Austrian bank square, but the ignorance of the auditors, the self-glority, the sarcosance of the banks endangers the bank square Austria, Mr. Col. Stummvoll! [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Now I know why you have been excluded! – That was a wise decision, Mr. Strache!]] The failure of the supervisory bodies is legendary. – Now it will be interesting, ladies and gentlemen, High House! The Austrian People's Party, represented by colleagues Dr. Stummvoll, has claimed to have already known all that I have listed to you. That's really remarkable. Thus, the ÖVP knew – says Mr Stummvoll – that banking supervision in the Federal Ministry of Finance has completely failed. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: That's why we distributed them!]] One of the officials there said in the investigation committee that he did not even read the National Bank's audit report. To do this, you have to say, he was what the intellectual skills reached, already at the lower limit. That's what we admit. The next official who signed this up said he'd cut it through. And the third one who came – he also appeared here today in the house, accompanied by the Minister – said he only read it cross-checked, without having captured the content. Ladies and gentlemen, have you already known all this? [[Abg. Dr. stupid: That's why we changed it! That's why we've acted!]] And you didn't act? That's why you said that the Investigation Committee was pointless – because you already knew all of this and didn't act? The national bank auditors, ladies and gentlemen, have specifically failed to inform banking supervision. The Supervisory Boards of BAWAG, ladies and gentlemen – and it is said that ÖVP has already known everything; if I look at the representatives there, that may not be entirely unbelievable –: There were economic representatives who did not ask a single critical question to Director-General Elsner or to Chairman of the Supervisory Board Weninger, as the minutes have shown. In six years, ladies and gentlemen, not one critical question. The main thing, the list of presences was signed, the main thing, the Gage was settled, and then they said: Oje, now we have not noticed what Mr Elsner has done. You said that we were not at all aware that there was a bank in the bank that Mr Elsner kept us away from. – So much on the issue of the function of the supervisory bodies on the security of the Austrian banking centre. The ÖVP says that she already knew all of this – I even believe it now – so the investigation committee was pointless. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: There was no talk of “unprofitable ”!]] But then I ask you: If you already knew all that, why didn't you act long ago? Why have you allowed investors to get hurt in this country? Why have you allowed Gauner to work in this country if you already knew all of this, Mr President? [[Congratulation with FPÖ and Greens.]] Go inside, your argument is difficult to betray! Have you also known, Mr President, that you have already known that the state commissioners are sitting in the banks and supervisory councils of this country as the great silence? Did you know? [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: That's not true!]] Of course! Everyone said the state commissioner was always there, but never said anything. Greeting God, Good day – and then he was gone again. – For this we have ordered state commissioners, ladies and gentlemen? Meaningless organs! The ÖVP says she already knew all of this. But if nothing has been done, everyone has been forced to work so that Mr Elsner and his entire Kumpani will not be disturbed by their macheloikes, which they have all organised, ladies and gentlemen. The ÖVP seems to be interested only as an election campaign ammunition, it has not been interested in improving the security of the Austrian banking square. So don't pretend you were interested today! Her Finance Minister Grasser has shown that he is only interested in flicking the Red before the National Council election of a piece of stuff. This has also been the best of this committee, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] Aha, did you know that? But that's good that we're going to discuss it all in front of the running camera today. [[Complementary with the FPÖ and the Greens.]] Thank you, my colleague, for your openness. Did you know – and you say you knew – that the most prestigious audit firms in this country issue confirmation notes that are not worth the paper on which they stand? [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: That's not true!]] Aha, that's not right. – I have a confirmation note that made you feel sorry for yourself. Finally, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. In fact, he noted that the audit firm as the bank auditor of BAWAG provided a confirmation note for a balance sheet for which a liability of the ÖGB would be granted. Without this liability they could no longer have been able to balance at that time. The bank auditors considered this declaration of liability to be inconvenient – knowing that for the ÖGB the only really valuable asset was the BAWAG, ladies and gentlemen. – So much for the circular confirmation note. This is said to have known everything, ladies and gentlemen. She didn't do anything. She said Austria's banking place is correct, Austria's banking square is fine. – Mr President, your argument is so treacherous, I would say that it has been a shot in your two knees, not just in a knee. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Only polemics, Mr. Colleague! Stay honest!]] I stay honest, I'm just quoting Günter stupid. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: But wrong!]] Is this too messy to quote Günter stupidly? - That's something new. [[Abg. Dr. Schelling: But if, then, right!]] Can't vote, I don't want to put it out of dispute. Ladies and gentlemen, have you known how the willfulness of the policy towards the banks in this country works? Did you know? – I think you knew that. Your will has already been expressed when we set up this committee. They were not allowed to agree at all. I remember that chance when Dr. Böhmdorfer called me. [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: Your Minister of Justice!]] After Dr. Böhmdorfer discovered the Lombard club of the Austrian banks, showed how to withdraw the interest rates from the small savers, how to actually skin them at interest rates through interest agreements over the Haxl, the banks have made sure that the Cabinet Schüssel II of this same Dr. Böhmdorfer no longer has the banking competence and the consumer protection agents get away from him. [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: Your Minister of Justice, Mr. Colleague!]] That's how politics dances if the banks want it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, the institutions of justice, the institutions of justice, also dance if they want to have banks. The ÖVP knows everything, said Dr. stupid today, and does nothing about it. We're with Mr. Mag. Horngacher experiences how even the economic police dance when it comes to the interests of the banks. That's what ÖVP knew, says Dr. stupid. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: That's all wrong!]] Of course! Did you know Mr. Mag. Horngacher for Mr. Elsner Ostmafiosi...? [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: This is the case of the prosecutor!]] But no, that's not the case of the prosecutor, that's also the matter of politics. You always say when you get caught: That's the state attorney's case! We knew everything, but we're just politicians. We could have changed it, but that's the prosecution's case. Such a manifestly absurd argument really only brings together a black man, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] That is why I am not saying “saint”, but “only to the appearance of holiness”, ladies and gentlemen, for surveys in Rome have shown that you are not really holy. That's what the President is wrong with. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! All this is possible only in one country, whose then Chancellor Dr. Schüssel drives to Sofia to climb around the piano in front of the East Mafia. You can't be surprised! It has not been explained why he played piano in the presence of Mr. Elsner in front of the East Mafia piano. This has not been clarified to this day. Don't laugh, you've kept it clear together with the ÖVP. [[towards SPÖ]] We'd just like to know which waltz he gave the best there. Who really danced there: the East Mafia or our people? [[Abg. May. Ikrath: Mr. Stadler, why were you excluded from your own party?]] I'm more likely to suspect that our people danced there. But the ÖVP already knows all of this, has the Lord stupidly said, so we need no further information. Let's just ask the blacks, they know all this! You will also know, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, what you have done and what you have looked out for! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] Yes, Mr. Stumbling, late, in the evening the lazy will be diligent! Now, at the last meeting of the Committee of Inquiry, here in plenary, the colleague is boldly engaged. Now he wakes up at once! [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, you have shown that you do not have in mind Austria's bank area, but only in mind that nothing can happen to the black sector and that the red sector will be suited as much as possible. That was the whole concern you had in this committee! [[Abg. May. Ikrath: Mr. Stadler, when did you last work in a bank? You have no idea!]] You don't have in committee once – not once! – showed an interest in really improving the situation. Of the proposals made by Mr Graf today in the context of his report, I know that they are all very reasonable, I know from these proposals that those members of the Committee who have really worked, Mr. Cot, are being boldly supported. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Is the Count your colleague?]] I know that all this would be necessary to give investors, savers and creditors in this country the feeling that control really works. She's not working right now, ladies and gentlemen! In particular, the activity of the bank auditors is a single glare to deceive investors and deceive the savers and those who trust in Austria's bank square! [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the Member States.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! There would still be a lot to explain, in particular what the case of Atomic is going on, because there I am with you: [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] That was really a single scandal, also a proof of how arbitrary justice is! I'm telling you today that you probably already knew. However, I invite you today to ensure that late, but at least one of your former vice-presidents, Mr. Commercialrat Rohrmoser, is done late enough, ladies and gentlemen. That would at least be a proof that you really took this committee seriously!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e5103	The next item is the speech by Mr Bucher. 12 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e5126	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President, please! [[Numerous calls and calls between representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e5148	A little more peace, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Bucher. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Ladies and gentlemen, please continue!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e5172	Dear Ewald Stadler, you have certainly succeeded in bringing a humorous facet into this yet dry and special matter. [[Abg. Strache: They dry it again!]] I do not make it dry, Mr Klubobmann, but I do it responsibly, because in the whole field of research, which we have felt committed to over the last eight months, it was about a lot of money, it was about a lot of trust and it was about scandals that should be discovered. And on this occasion I would also like to thank your colleague and committee chairman for the presidency. – You probably would not have expected that from me now because we have a different opinion on the Presidency. We have always said that independent retired judges should take over the presidency. This is a view of many. But I also say that Mr Graf has done very well that he has made this very competent, because he has probably been one of the few most intensively concerned with all 18 issues of evidence. That's why a thank you to him! Also a thank you, above all, to the employees of this House, to the Stenographical Protocol, which has done sensational things for us, so that we could pursue our ambitious goals and treat all the topics of proof accordingly. I would also like to thank the staff of our club who have stood by me. But one, ladies and gentlemen, remains to be noted: The Banking Investigation Committee was under the shadow of the Eurofighter Investigation Committee. Many citizens confused the committees and did not know that we had two committees here in this House. And at the end of these eight months, which I am now regretting, the knowledge remains that, contrary to the Eurofighter investigation committee of the Banking Investigation Committee, more knowledge has been given to the light that we are demanding more of the framework legislation than the Eurofighter Investigation Committee. Thus, it remains to be noted that it was a useful investment and that it was also right on our part to give our consent to the BAWAG Investigation Committee in particular. Mr Graf compared the work in the committee to a marathon run. I am a runner myself and I know: There are always two types of runners: the one who immediately prints out, without knowing what distance will happen to them in the near future – Mr. Cap knows that too, because I am a bit disappointed because I know that he is a very routine runner, but probably the age has led him to take a break and break this course – and the second category of runners are just those who run slowly, like the BZÖ, slow, forces gentle, far-sighted, but knowing that the goal is still 42 kilometers away, but that if you can keep up with the forces and save the forces, for the decisive last kilometers, Mrs. Collaborator, to which it comes. [[Rejoicing]] [[Abg. May. Trunk: It's very far away!]] That is why our proposal, I think, was very wise to say: Let us interrupt the Committee, let us breathe through once again and see that all the important issues of evidence are on the table for us, all documents and documents that all processes have been carried out, that all the information is available to us and that we cannot make the statement so that we can also ask them about the important questions and give them a mandatory answer so that we can come to a result that we can all be proud of in this House! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But unfortunately it didn't come that far. That is why we are facing the result today: We've spent a lot of money, but we've achieved little inconsistency. That's the result we're standing before today! Otherwise, we would have produced a committee report. I am right to give the chairman out of office with regard to many of the representations he has made today. Then: It was clear in the case of BAWAG that it is the largest economic scandal in the Second Republic caused by SPÖ officials. That was clear! But it was important for us never to make such a thing happen again, to draw the necessary conclusions from it. And, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have often shaken our heads with the statements made by some of the people who have been told – very often the head shakes! – because we could not believe how such a thing could happen at all, that Supervisory Boards at BAWAG did not know at all that they did not even ask themselves a question at the Supervisory Board meetings, that they had received a muzzle from their chairman, that the Chairman of the Supervisory Board was not aware of what business was actually at BAWAG, that the trade union president also did not know what extent the liability of the ÖGB in the field of BAWAG had at all. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: animal pictures!]] All these paintings were not known and conspicuous to those acting. This is a moral picture for us: how to deal with such a large banking company as the BAWAG – a moral picture that we no longer want to repeat and repeat. That is why, I believe, the findings we have gained from these various actions and partly also criminal intentions are very, very important. Now to the field of Atomic, where I can only draw a short summary: Atomic was a conscious bankruptcy on the part of BAWAG; we found that. And we, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, also found that there was a collaboration of bankruptcy judges, mass administrators and attorneys of the BAWAG, a friendly cooperation, and that there was a work of these three people on a goal. This has been something new for us too and is also an example for us to see that such a thing is unique. And we then came to the individual meetings and information of the individual people that it is quite common for a concurrence judge to have his mass administrators whom he gives orders, and that in the case of Atomic several million euros have gone over the table in the form of honorary notes to the mass administrator. And to that we said: We must draw a cover, in the way that the fee is not based on the insolvency amount, but that there must be a maximum amount for the remuneration of the costs to be borne by the mass manager! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Or: the case AMIS. – We strive so much in this House to strengthen Austria’s financial centre. With a number of privatizations, we have managed to achieve this successfully. We have thus scored an international score and have been honoured for our privatisation policy. However, it is also equally important to maintain investor protection, to ensure that there is no hidden painting, no money deposits that the investor knows nothing about, where the investor is left unclear and has no idea how much money is paid to commissions, where the money flows, that investment service companies are not allowed to keep money, but that they do so abroad. An important realization for us was that there is a need for an interplay of securities service supervision in Austria and across Europe so that such things can no longer happen. Unfortunately, the entire mobilTel/Bulgaria complex remained unexplained because the most important persons no longer appeared due to the early rounding of the committee by the coalition parties. As a summary of all the evidence issues, it remains that it is important to create an all-financial supervisory body in the Republic of Austria, which ensures that banks, insurances, financial services companies, investment service companies and on the other hand market supervision are put into control so that audit reports can no longer be drawn up in the same way as in the past – once by the central bank, once by the financial market supervision – and then these audit reports disappear somewhere that the competent authorities do not reach, are not read or, if they are read, not reported to the competent man or to the competent woman, so that this does not lead to any consequences. There and there management talks have been conducted without consequences, without persecution of the objections and without sanctions. We do not have any sanctions to prevent banks, insurance companies, investment service companies from doing business that is not allowed. Therefore, the Court of Auditors' report on the corresponding recommendations has also been adopted. But it was not only important for the Court of Auditors to make these recommendations, but for us it is something like a preview of the Financial Committee. Then: We have learned a lot over the last eight months and now we know how it really is in the market, where the problems can really be found. Therefore, I am also very happy that we have had the opportunity to make such a broad picture of the individual transactions at the Austrian financial centre, and also of how things work, for example where the Republic has insight and control functions in the various banking bodies, as the case may be of the state commissioners. We have also wondered how it can happen that while state commissioners sit in the Supervisory Board meetings, attend meetings there, but do not even have the right to object, ask questions, then deliver reports to the Ministry of Finance, or only very short reports, because they cannot make a comprehensive picture. We also need to consider: How do we deal with the instrument of the State Commissioners in the future? Is that still up to date? Or do we need other, more effective control instruments, so that such things as the BAWAG, like AMIS et cetera, can no longer happen? Or: the whole area of confidentiality. – Secrecy is something that we have always held particularly high, for example the banking secret that we are so proud of in the European area. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] At the Hypo Alpe-Adria Bank, however, it was – exactly! – that the confidentiality of the FMA was vehemently violated by the FMA. [[Abg. May. Kogler:... Money laundering!]] The FMA's executives have been over-reacting and the mortgage bank has been criminalised without any previous reason. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again]] Such things must no longer happen!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e5296	Mr President, you have already exhausted the 12 minutes of speaking time, and I cannot tolerate it by decision. [[In the case of BZÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. Bucher.]] There is now Mr. Vice-Chancellor Mag. Molterer's word. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e5329	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The economic situation of Austria is excellent: We have growth rates, as we have not known them for a long time, with more than 3.2 percent increase. [[Abg. Strache: This is the wrong speech! That's where you took out the wrong speech!]] We have a labour market development in Austria, ladies and gentlemen, which is absolutely pleasing: Unemployment is falling. We have record employment. We are on our way to full employment. – If you do not recognize this, Mr. Strache, you are at least blind on one eye! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have a development in export markets, ladies and gentlemen, which is sensational: Austrian workers generate half of the income through exports, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Austrians have nothing of it!]] Among other things, this has to do with the fact that we have an excellent and excellent development of the Austrian financial centre. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes eh!]] In recent years, Austria's financial centre, ladies and gentlemen, has a dynamic and a success story that has made Austria more successful, has made Austria stronger and more people in Austria are working, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is, logically, a success story that is inseparably linked to the Austrian banking sector, ladies and gentlemen. I am proud of the achievements of the Austrian credit industry! This is a success story that I don't let go of anything and no one bad, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is also about the reputation of our country. It's about the economic power of our country. It is about reason and care, ladies and gentlemen, in dealing with these questions. But with many words, especially those of Mr Stadler, I have had to miss reason and caution. It's a shame what's happening here for the Austrian site, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] If you have observed this success story of the Austrian banks in recent years, ladies and gentlemen, then you will know that the Austrian banks in particular have understood the way of opening up the new markets as a very great opportunity. And the Austrian banks and credit institutions have not only enabled large companies to export, but many thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] I therefore call on everyone in this House not to put emotion in the foreground in this debate, but to take care and reason, ladies and gentlemen, otherwise you will do harm! – But we will prevent that, ladies and gentlemen! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] [[Further calls of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Last year alone, the Austrian banks have additionally recruited 1 200 employees – in addition, because they are economically successful because they are working properly. I also say this in a situation that is obviously fueled by emotion and not by reason and caution, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course – and for that to happen, of course – Austria’s financial centre needs clear rules of play and clear control. But what the Austrian financial centre certainly does not need, ladies and gentlemen, are suspicions, allegations which are expressed here, but which are proved by nothing, because they undermine confidence. [[Abg. May. Stadler:... innocent!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: (keeping a newspaper) The Treichl is talking about corruption!]] I know what I am talking about, because I am a lot on my way abroad, you can imagine that, and I am often referred to this very question, such as Austria – including parts of this House – dealing with the institutions banks and with the institutions supervision, ladies and gentlemen. The supervisory bodies and staff in the supervisory and control bodies have also not deserved to deal with them in part. I say that very clearly, too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Just as I am for sharp control, I am also in favour of fairness towards the employees, also in the FMA. You, ladies and gentlemen here in the House, unanimously adopted financial market supervision in 2001 – unanimously! – as designed as she now works. All parties have given their consent to this Financial Market Supervision – a unanimous decision! [[Abg. May. Kogler: But not what the grassman made of it!]] And, ladies and gentlemen, so that you don't think I'm just quoting some unimportant institutions here, I can tell you what the IMF, the International Monetary Fund, writes: ‘Austria enjoys a high standard of financial supervision, based on strong institutions’, ‘and a modern legal framework’. [[Abg. Blow: Double-zero agent!]] [[Abg. May. Trunk: The framework, yes – but not the execution!]] The IMF, a critical institution, as we know, praises this institution, ladies and gentlemen, and that is important to me that we do not lose sight of it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But, of course, things need to be improved, yes! [[Call the greens:Ah, eh?- Oh, my God!]] The reform of financial market supervision is an important matter, and we will devote ourselves to all the intensity of this reform work over the next few weeks and months. [[Call:Well, today]] I am therefore also grateful that this motion for a resolution, which is obviously to be adopted today, also supports this reform work, which has already been launched in the Ministry of Finance. It will also be a financial market surveillance in the future, which is an all-financial market supervision – that is important – but, of course, on the issue of interface issues, on the question of double-tracking improvements are necessary. That also says the Court of Auditors. Of course, we will devote ourselves to the question: How can bank supervision, for example within the framework of the State Commissioners, be improved? Of course, the question of training, for example, will be an important issue for qualification. But again: I appeal to you and invite you to cooperate with caution and reason in this reform project – and not with emotion and unproven claims, because that hurts. The other is useful – that is my goal, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Parnigoni.]] At the end of this work process, which has, of course, already started for a long time, the Federal Government will present this proposal for reform to the House for discussion and consultation in autumn. I invite you today, including the opposition parties, that, in the same spirit in which financial market surveillance was founded in 2001, we were unanimously adopted by this House – also then by the opposition parties – with the same The spirit of commonness, ladies and gentlemen, then adopt this reform. Why? – Because it is unsatisfying, I say, and is a mistake and a damage, although, for party-political reasons in particular, this question of principle – and that is a fundamental question for me – is the safeguarding of the financial area, the safeguarding of the banking economy, the safeguarding of employment in this area, the efficient control is not beyond dispute. We will make the contribution to this. They are also invited to make their contribution to this because Austria is concerned with employment and because it is about the country's reputation. I'm not going to let anyone break this up, especially you, Mr Mag. Stadler!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e5591	Next, Mrs Mag. Drunk's word. 4 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e5612	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! I have a great deal of understanding that many Members and the Austrian people are interested in the fact that there is information and clarification about money laundering and machinations in other banks. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about the machinations of the Klagenfurt SPÖ?]] I have little understanding of this, Mr President, but the last statements made by the Minister on the reform of financial market supervision are proof that I can only have little understanding – if you say you knew everything. [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: To reform!]] [[Call at the FPÖ: He is the “consul”!]] Then I ask you: Why didn't you say all that in the investigation committee? And above all: If you knew what was happening to criminal and other machinations in the eyes of Austrian financial supervision, you would have been obliged to reform and amend this under Minister Grasser! That's why I'm saying: This investigation committee and the dedicated work of all were necessary in order to also convince the ÖVP that a radical reform of Austrian financial market supervision is necessary: to protect Austria's financial centre, to protect the savers and savers, and to preserve the recognition and international reputation of Austria's financial centre – and not vice versa. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It is also logical why this was not possible under the previous government, under a Minister of Finance Grasser – it was mentioned: It has been shown that both the occupations of the state commissioners and the supervision of the financial markets did not apply: Quality, competence, experience, far-sightedness, but it has been worth: Grasser's close, Grasser's office. [[Abg. Hornek: Say something to Mrs. Tumpel-Gugerell!]] Just a very small game: Grasser Press Secretary as State Commissioner at the Meinl Bank, joint yacht trips: Meinl, Flöttl, State Commissioner. - What did it bring? – The current job of the Minister of Finance has secured it, but it has led to the fact that, for too long, the supervision of banks was not an instrument for control, but rather had fogged control and made it impossible for parts to be controlled. [[Abg. Wheeler: A self-willed theory!]] [[Call the SPÖ:But the truth!]] That is why reforms are urgently needed! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The same applies to the transactions around the Carinthian Hypo Alpe-Adria Bank. Since 2003, it has been known that there are staff problems in the Treasury area. The FMA looked away. - A scandal! [[Abg. Hornek: Talk about the BAWAG!]] A lot has been checked during the FMA examination in 2004 – but not the Treasury section. They looked away. - A scandal! And what happened after the discovery? [[Abg. Hornek: Why didn't you react in Carinthia, gracious woman?]] – After the detection, the report on the 2006 OeNB test, which was made, has been read to this day, but has been put in the drawer, has not made a final talk, has not taken any consequences! – This is a scandal against the bank and also the population in Austria! What did the FMA do for it? – After a sulfur burn broke out in the hypo in Carinthia, instead of being erased, she poured oil into the fire! [[Abg. Hornek: The BAWAG was yes...!]] One has censored protocols, changed file notes afterwards, boycotted conversations, staged media vortices, and a owner's representative took an active part. And in the end – and this is the true scandal – the FMA has indirectly intervened in accounting, and after the swap losses, the Carinthian and Carinthian women have again suffered a damage of 99 million. Reforms are more than necessary – immediately! – and I am pleased that the Minister of Finance has today also given his verbal approval to what is necessary. I believe in the will to change that is necessary – otherwise we are all guilty.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e5764	Next, Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer to speak. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e5786	Madam President, Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, High house! Mr Kogler, as we all know, is the chairman of the Committee on the Court of Auditors. I only mention this because I notice a very arrogant way of dealing with control here, and I would also like to point out that on the other hand one should also come at his own door. Mr Kogler, my dear colleagues Ladies and gentlemen, since the National Council election, as chairman of the Committee of Auditors, Mr Kogler, already in October of the previous year, no longer held a single meeting of this important control instrument of Parliament. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Because you didn't make dates! – That’s incredible!]] [[Call to the Greens: This is a hypocrisy...!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] In the In the meantime, 15 Court of Auditors reports are already on ice – Court of Auditors reports that we should deal with intensively. Mr Kogler, do you call this effective control? – Before Mr Kogler, come to your own door. Do your own homework once! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One of the main investigations was undoubtedly, as mentioned several times today, the accusation of money laundering. We have also dealt very intensively with these accusations in the Committee of Inquiry, with these possible offences. We have heard, I think, two of the most important experts: Mrs Mag. Florkowski of the Financial Market Supervision, which in recent years has practically only been concerned with money laundering, nationally and internationally, and Mr Mag. Erich Zwettler, one of the most important experts of the Federal Criminal Office's economic group. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Attention, that was all in a confidential session! Attention!]] What we have been able to conclude as conclusions is that in recent years efforts to combat money laundering have also increased considerably in Austria, that in recent years we have also introduced new instruments, that we have expanded reporting requirements among the professional groups concerned, and that we have also increased sensitivity, I believe, in dealing with this issue accordingly. On the other hand, we have been able to take the view that the number of moments of suspicion or the suspicions – these are a few hundred in Austria – and also in the number of convictions – that are a few per year in Austria, in fact, there were no special conspicuousities with other European countries. Now it is clear that the topic of money laundering has all the ingredients for an exciting and good criminal novel: high amounts of money, dazzling personalities, locations around the world. [[Abg. May. Kogler: ÖVP interventionists!]] [[Abg. Strache: Preferred treatment in prisons!]] That is why, of course, this area is also suitable for all kinds of mysterious speculations, as Kogler and Co. have been and are still being warmed up by Kogler and Co. in the Committee of Inquiry and today. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, let us simply stick to the facts, to the results of the Committee of Inquiry. Let us speak with the words of the most important investigator and investigator in the Federal Criminal Office, who for many years has raised too many accusations and examined them intensively. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Why does Ferrero-Waldner intervene? Taus?]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Why does Taus intervene? – Taus intervenes for the Russian Mafia!]] Mr Mag. Erich Zwettler could almost literally say one thing over and over again on these often presupposes about suspected dark shops. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Why?]] – And often he added: the American investigation authorities – also very interesting! – which could not be proved by anything. Years of intensive investigations by the Federal Criminal Office have not really been able to harden all these accusations. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You've been messing up everything again!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: “James Kogler”!]] In my opinion, in these intensive investigations in the Committee of Inquiry, only one thing has actually been hardened: the suspicion that perhaps American authorities in the interest of their own companies and banks wanted to make the successful business of Austrian companies in Eastern Europe, which we should be proud of together, poor by unproven and unproven suspicions and rumors. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So I can only guess one thing, ladies and gentlemen: Let us not become the handful of private business interests of other countries! [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Very right!]] Finally, however, a brief assessment of the results and also of the picture left by this Committee of Inquiry: What did the citizens expect? – You have expected an unbiased and impartial investigation of incidents around BAWAG and ÖGB, incredible speculation losses and dramatic consequences for the Austrian economy. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Do not twist the test order!]] And what has become of it, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately? – What we have experienced was usually not an objective investigation. What we have experienced was largely not an unbiased search for political responsibilities. What we have experienced was often preconceptions on the same issues and lengthy discussions, where the guilty one has already been established before you even asked the first question! All of this was the result of this eight-month examination committee. I am therefore convinced that we must therefore also consider the reform of this important instrument of the Committee of Inquiry over the next few months. In conclusion: Yes, we have gained experience and knowledge over the last eight months, partly including those that we should bring into necessary reforms in the coming months – unfortunately, but also the knowledge for me that we should no longer deal with an important instrument of the National Council and democracy in the future. I conclude with the hope and invite all of you to ensure that we really take and implement these experiences and findings into account in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e5991	As the next speaker, I shall give Mr Magistrate. Rossmann's word. Mr deputies, you have 12 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e6013	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! - Aha, he's leaving the hall right now. – Dear Mr State Secretary! High house! Well, Mr Vice-Chancellor, you have rightly spoken of an excellent development at the Austrian financial centre. They have spoken of a success story, that is true – good messages are always appropriate when the Television is there – but, of course, you also have to explain to television viewers what has not been so positive in the development, and there are a variety of moral pictures about which you can now report for hours what has not worked with the supervision system in Austria. For example, how is it with this very great “success story” in connection with the securities service provider AMIS: 16,000 victims, 10,000 of them alone in Austria! A damage volume for the 10,000 Austrians in the order of € 109 million! – That’s what you call a success story, Mr. Vice-Chancellor? Explain to investors the success story here! In this context, I would also like to point out that, although we have an investor compensation in Austria, Mr. Stummvoll – he is not in the hall now – has said that he already knew that this does not work. If he already knew this in advance, why did he not, as chairman of the Financial Committee, make sure that this investor compensation is made one that actually works? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Indeed, we have today an investor compensation, which is designed in such a way that there is not a single case, that is not a single case, where investors can be compensated. It's just a design mistake! And what investor compensation does today is nothing but avert claims. In fact, it is not an investor compensation, Mr. Colleague stupid – who is not there ; okay – but it is actually an investor compensation defense. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll stands next to the government bank and speaks to Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer]] There is therefore an urgent need for action here! [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] Because you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, have pointed out that financial market supervision has been decided unanimously: Well, that's right, but let's look at – and that's what we did in the Banking Investigation Committee – what has become of it. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Super!]] – No, Mr Klubobmann Schüssel, this financial market supervision is not super! This has also tried to explain to us your Minister of Finance Grasser, but I can tell you: This NLP speech, with which he presented it – the paint is off! And there are numerous examples where we can prove this; AMIS is just one of them. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: The AK speech...!]] – Mr. Donnerbauer, leave the Chamber of Workers alone, which has now lost nothing here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Rädler: Mr Tumpel...!]] Furthermore, it is about what has become of financial market supervision. And the Court of Auditors report has also stated very clearly that there are significant inefficiencies here, from the instruments to the institutions. [[Abg. Morak: You only defend the tumpel – with woman!]] And this is not entirely accidentally equivalent to what this Banking Investigation Committee has promoted. Mr Vice-Chancellor, if you are talking about suspicions and allegations here, I have to reject that very strictly from us, from all in the committee of inquiry. [[Abg. Rädler: Don't talk for everyone!]] – In connection with money laundering, for example, it was a depesche from the USA, in which suspicions were expressed against two Austrian banks. – Not the members of the investigation committee have expressed suspicions, no, the U.S. authorities have expressed suspicions, Mr. Klubobmann Schüssel, and have raised these suspicions to financial market supervision and to the Federal Ministry of Finance. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel:... CIA spokesman?]] [[Abg. Dr. Schelling: A greener as a spokesperson of the CIA?]] Only: The Federal Ministry of Finance did not want to note that it is suspicious moments in connection with money laundering! - Yeah, it's all right. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: “James Rossmann”!]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. Just keep talking! . And you want to suppress, conceal, conceal, cover up exactly this crime, by ending this investigation committee in advance. [[Abg. Dr. Schelling: Read the protocols, Mr. Rossmann! Aren't you there? – It can be!]] By the way, Mr Donnerbauer, because you have been so presumptuously intervening.Now I have to come back to what you have said with regard to colleagues Kogler. [[Call to the ÖVP: ‘Premise’?- Oh, my God!]] You said there were no dates for a Court of Auditors meeting. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: That's right!]] [[Abg. Bitch: Why?]] Why not? - Because the ÖVP has always blocked this. [[Abg. Prince: Very weak!]] - I know. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] We have also noticed this in the Banking Investigation Committee. Also there, the ÖVP has always tried to torpedo, block, and it was finally it that suppressed it that this Banking Investigation Committee can finally examine its evidence issues. [[Abg. Rädler: Learn the Rules of Procedure! There's a chairman.]] I know, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, that you would prefer a Parliament without control. We know that anyway, but it won't play in this high house. No, we won't let that happen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Creatures – yes, there are many people who can be drawn in this committee. A moral picture, for example, is that of the appointment of state commissioners. Mr. Ex-Bundesminister Grasser was invited to the committee. Although he told us in dazzling colors how great the FMA is, we also insisted that in the occupation of state commissioners it was really about running extreme friendly business. And one of the friends has treated Grasser very carefully, Mr Julius Meinl. Mr Julius Meinl, by the way, is a good acquaintance. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Yes, what should he have done? What did he do? Did Mr. Meinl do anything?]] - Wait, wait, one by one, Mr. Klubobmann's bowl! In 2002, it was specifically amended the law, which made it possible for not only officials to dress with state commissioners, but also others. But that this change of law was so misused that Cabinet members, friends and friends were then provided with state commissioner posts, that is a scandal in this Republic! [[Abg. Rädler: This is a single opinion!]] That's what I'm telling you, Mr. Klubobmann's bowl. [[Congratulation with greens, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Especially in connection with Julius Meinl. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] - Excuse me... – Exactly. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The whole yacht party!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I like to be at Meinl's tomb!]] You're saying it! Julius Meinl was the one who not only invited the Minister of Finance to his yacht, it is by chance today also that Julius Meinl, who helps the Minister of Finance out of service to create a new existence – right now! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: But what did he do, please?]] This must have been thanks for sending him to Meinl AG and JULIUS MEINL INVESTMENT GmbH, friends, cabinet members, closest cabinet staff: Mrs. Fehr, Mr. Lepuschitz, Mr. Dr. Quantschnigg, who, by the way, is very well-known to us from the fundraiser in connection with the homepage, and finally and finally the former cabinet employee Dr. Traumüller. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: But what did Meinl do?]] This dream filler has also become well known in the Committee. He's one of the FMA's executives today. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: This is a super entrepreneur!]] – How great it is on the road, Mr Klubobmann Schüssel, we have experienced in this committee over the past eight months. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] And because we can't need such morals that I can still continue to use in this country... – I might want to say one more thing: the 2001 OeNB report. Mr Stadler has already pointed out that the officials did not find it worth reading this report. Minister of Finance Grasser also abolished the transfer of these files to the Office of Ministers, that is to say, as was Usus at the time of Ferdinand Lacina as Minister of Finance – as such reports naturally went to the Office of Ministers, without being filtered by any officials. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] This Usus has abolished Minister of Finance Grasser – and for this he has the full responsibility to bear that this report has not been presented to him. We do not need such morals in this country! What we urgently need is a reform. That is why we have tabled a motion for a resolution which I shall now explain to you in a few basic points. It is true that not only the bank supervisors have failed, but also the bank auditors in advance. [[Abg. Rädler:... Bank hasn't happened at all!]] This has become well known. [[Abg. Rädler:... BAWAG everything is fine!]] One of the bank auditors is not by chance one of the defendants in the BAWAG trial. That's not about it! We therefore need a reform of the auditors, first and foremost an external rotation of auditors at least every five years. We also need a right of opposition from the FMA/OeNB regarding the appointment of persons to bank auditors. And it would be to be considered if it would not be useful to create a pool of bank auditors, where it would be decided by lot, which auditors will be assigned to which bank. What we need further is to eliminate the interface problem between FMA and OeNB in connection with the supervisory authorities. But that's not the point of asking: Do we need a little more FMA and a little less OeNB or a little more OeNB and a little less FMA? We need clear responsibilities in one hand. It'll be safe. Nor is it in the manner of this coalition or alto coalition about running post chess in the run-up to this reform. Staff questions are the questions to be clarified once we have reformed. In addition, it is urgently necessary to transfer all ownership shares from the OeNB to avoid conflicts of interest. It can't be that only the BAWAG sells its shares – by the way, to a bet, the nominal – but also to all the others involved in the OeNB. The state commissioners have, in particular, been awarded silence, many of them also through ignorance in banking matters. And under these conditions, how this institution has worked in recent years, we believe that it would be useless to remove the Commissioners of State. [[Abg. Rädler: Do you know the word “Caribbean ”?]] However, it is also important to strengthen investor protection in addition to what we will decide today in the Securities Supervisory Act 2007. Moreover, it will be necessary to introduce strict rules to combat money laundering – even more stringent provisions than we have today. [[Abg. May. Kogler: EU Directive!]] [[Abg. Wheeler: That's unlikely!]] Finally, it will be a matter of facilitating the elimination of banking secrecy in the event of suspicions of money laundering and the fight against tax evasions in money laundering. [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e6490	As the next speaker, Mr Vilimsky is speaking. Speaking time: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e6512	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I am not a financial expert, I am not a bank expert, I am not an expert in corruption, for money laundering, but what has happened here in this banking committee, what has been debated, and what has filled the gaskets every day in the course of the media reporting, really gives a terrifying moral picture of the red-black shackles in this Republic and also needs to be clarified and defiltrated during this legislative period. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, to highlight what the debate is about here and today, you have to look back a little bit. You have to look back to the election day where something happened. From my point of view, the ÖVP has rightly got one on the lid, and the SPÖ has passed a proper operational accident, namely that it has become number one and has suddenly been faced with the situation that it should have fulfilled all its election promises. That was quite a good thing at the beginning. There have been a lot of demands on the part of the Social Democrats to actually fulfill these promises, to shape parliamentarianism with life, with new quality. And in this very phase, in which it was not clear which government will actually carry out the business in future, there were the decisions for two investigative committees. I believe that the SPÖ did not know what it really did with its approval of these two committees of inquiry. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The curse of good deed!]] A box of the Pandora went up. And the more one had seen, the more both parties were striving to repress these booklets with solidity, so that one would not look too closely, for example in the banking and financial sectors on the one hand, and in the Eurofighter Committee, which was for treatment yesterday, on the other hand was the case. This committee, the Banking Committee, then had an investigation committee on financial market supervision. And there were very interesting perceptions for me as a member at the time. There was the perception that on the one hand Mr. Matznetter – I would almost say – had gone to the Sache, with a lot of elan, with a lot of bite and profound knowledge here in survey rounds. On the other hand, the Njet fraction was. There were Mr. Stumbling and Mr. Amon. Both are dined with limited arms and have said everything: What are you doing? Can they even investigate that? – And they've tried to turn off everything that's been done in investigations. [[Abg. Rädler: You were only an hour in the committee! You've never been seen!]] I am glad that Mr Amon is back here today. He was sick yesterday, and he announced that he would agree to our request for distrust. It's probably been politician disease or some announcement sniff that caught you there yesterday, but I'm glad you're back here today. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Wheelers: You were not an existing replacement member!]] And then, the political full - blood arraber Matznetter, who was still around the finance minister's posts at the time, was shut down at once. When he became the State Secretary, he was no longer a committee member, but he was introduced to us with a lot of promises in the backpack. Instead of the impression of a political full - blood araber, he today makes the impression that he is a political rocking horse. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] He is the authoritative body of Mr Molterer's Minister of Finance, and of the many things that have been promised here no longer in fulfillment. It's similar with Mr. Cap. Whoever saw him on Sunday on the show “in the center” where he was exposed to the accusations of the opposition, he saw that he scratched everywhere. Somehow he may have known: What is being blamed on him is true in the core. He is like a schoolbub, to whom the Levites were read. It was a kind of political itching that might be attacking him now because he cannot attend the debate. In fact, it is incredibly sad that there has been a lot of “forgone” here, that a coalition of cover and cover has been found in the last consequence and that this red and black box of the Pandora has been re-pressed. And exactly when it became interesting when it came to money laundering when it came to party financing when it came to ministerial responsibility, it was not possible to examine any more at all! Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, you will have a lot to do to make up for what you have done to our democracy and control rights. Mr. Cap has caused the Pallas Athens to suffer damage with a strangling grip – his fingerprints will continue to poke on the neck of Pallas Athens for a long time! – when it came to turning off a parliamentary investigation tool in full democracy-political brutality. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the FPÖ has many proposals that can lead to an improvement in the financial and banking area. In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Have you read it?]] [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm now sketching the headlines: The posted practice of the State Commissioners, the Supervisory Board, auditors, supervisory and audit authorities, bankruptcy and judicial review, money laundering prosecution, criminal code and other two points relating to the re-examination of the management of the state accounts and the rapid repair of the Securities Supervisory Act concerning investor compensation. Madam President, I can only assure myself whether this request has been properly tabled. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[President Dr Glamischnig-Piesczek nodds.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Two capital crimes have occurred in the course of these committees, all of which will continue to suffer. One thing was yesterday about the debate in person of Mr Darabos, who at the time supported a resolution by the House with his own voice, enabled a majority decision on which he simply turned out to be a minister, knowing that he is an executive body of the House. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: False Committee!]] [[Abg. Rädler: That was the wrong speech! Eurofighter!]] He has thus devalued this High House in a way... [[Abg. Wheeler:... the curve scratched!]] – Get out when you have something to say! These calls from your corner are just annoying. The second is the miraculous witness wound that has occurred in the Banking Committee. I wonder if You can even agree with it – I'm going to conclude! – that witnesses here can simply turn away from a charge of the committee, stating that they have a footsitting date or take a walk in their baths somewhere or know what God knows! [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign]] This is an unhappiness that can't be liked. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the chairman of the committee, Dr Martin Graf, who has done a lot here, who has managed this committee with great competence, I thank Parliament stenographers, I thank all those who have worked constructively, including Mr Kogler, who has done a lot here with profound expertise and has done a lot of work. In this sense, I hope you'll go over the summer and think about how you can make up for what you've done now. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e6687	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Vilimsky and other Members is in its basic form. I'm not sure what you're talking about. The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e6875	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Westenthaler. 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e6896	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Second day, second committee, same picture – it's pretty slow, I'm glad it's broadcast on TV –: Free euphoric applause for the green, green euphoric applause for the liberals. [[Abg. Brosz: No one ever complains about the Westenthaler!]] Are you actually one? Green and free association – the unification of two parties has been taking place here since the last days! [[Abg. Strache: These are at least reigning with backbone!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Someone has to take care of Parliament!]] I think this is very interesting, and I am glad that you can also see it on television, as two parties find here. I wish you all the best on your common path in the next weeks and months. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] On the committees themselves: There comes Mr Kogler to the speaker's desk... And the Chairman-in-Office of the Committee has always noticed this, and I would say that I have to say that, as I say, 80 percent objectively presided over, much more than Mr Pilz. Then and when, of course, he was involved in party politics, but that happens. They're all in a party, and therefore I don't take that bad for him either. You have criticized that it was 18 test orders and that is so difficult and takes so long. Only, dear friends, you have developed these 18 test orders! It's been your work. Mr Kogler, there is a saying: If you're hungry, don't go shopping, because then you buy too much and you can't pay it at the end! And that's the same thing that happens to me now: You have a huge hunger at scandal at the beginning, on Enlightenment: 18 Test orders – and now you have not finished! Not only because there was so much work – I'm going to do it then – but because the coalition has turned it off, but already, and that's why you should have taken up our proposal. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Because the files did not come! Incredible!]] [[Abg. Strache: Already again the lawyer of the Federal Government!]] It would have been worth making a committee exclusively for the greatest scandal of the history of the Second Republic, namely for the BAWAG scandal, where €3.5 billion of red comrades have been placed in the Karibiksand! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Strache: But that's what prevents you from doing so!]] This would have been a good committee, but not with 18 test orders that no one can do, and that is why it is already quite interesting. For the first time, there is no final report, the committee president has reported to us. That's really sad. That is something that we strongly criticise, that the coalition is now simply turning off this committee of inquiry. Parliament has been in the grip of the coalition for a few days, and the swindlers are going around: The committees are being strangled, today's Question Time is strangled, the requests are strangled for the next three months because of the summer break, the current session is being strangled tonight – by the way also with the signatures of Mr Strache and Mr Van der Bellen – also interesting. As BZÖ, we are the only party that says: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] It cannot be true, however, that at a time when people also work and in which burdens are demanded from them in which they are burdened, the High House until 26. He was imprisoned on September 9, and the government was not able to extend its time and drive on a sandy beach and play with the toes. We want to work for people, because here are Members who are elected by people and who are also working and are not supposed to go on vacation for three months, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Strache: Then you work!]] That can't be it, it's just not possible. I know it hurts when you list it. I know it hurts, just the last day, but you are extending it and have no wrong thoughts at all when it comes to working accordingly for the people. [[Abg. Eder: This is white nonsense what you say!]] [[Abg. Strache: You are never with your citizens!]] But to the Committee itself, to Mr Kogler another comment: Mr Kogler, you were the one who has played a very strong role in this committee. You have to say that. You've been playing as a chief prosecutor, you've been running to the prosecutor's office several times, and you've developed advertisements – also against my person – which have all been recruited. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's not true!]] Only, Mr Kogler, political change is not a currency for a committee to explain! That's what you've got to say. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's why it's wrong. And you have also caught yourself “with the capperl”, Mr Kogler, because if you take it exactly, you would have caused one, namely the full standstill of the committee. If you had been a prosecutor during ongoing committee work and had opened a procedure, anyone who had participated in this procedure could have made the statement and you would have completely paralyzed the committee. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Right! That's why we didn't do it!]] I don't know what was going on in you. But that only shows that you were not the great reconnaissance in the sense of the matter, but that you also carried out a lot of party policy. But to the BAWAG scandal itself: €3.5 billion was placed in the sand – and one-tenth of the BAWAG involved in this investigation committee, and everything else was different inspection orders. That was the cardinal mistake of this committee. Because on the consequences of this huge scandal that the SPÖ and their comrades have caused today, many, many people, for example, the small people, the small employees in the BAWAG, the small savers, but also the small ÖGB employees: They all pay the bill for this biggest scandal of the Second Republic! For example, as soon as this scandal has flown up and the whole extent has become visible, the account management fees at BAWAG have been increased, and the savers have been asked to cash out for the first time. Also interesting is the following: Now that the BAWAG has been suffocated at a so-called locust, as it is just called by your side, at “Zerberus”, it turns out that there is now a BAWAG termination program – highly interesting! – under the code name ‘Hermes’. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Broukal.]] Mr Broukal, listen carefully! Code name ‘Hermes’: There is a total of 400 employees in the BAWAG until 2011. Thank you, SPÖ! Thank you for selling the bank! The staff will thank you. [[Abg. Broukal: The bank does not belong to SPÖ!]] - The union, though. And the union has nothing to do with the SPÖ, Mr Broukal?- Oh, my God! It’s a ‘ coincidence. ’ But on the other hand – while the staff are being reduced while the savers are being burdened – I was amazed a few hours ago that Mr. President-in-Office Novotny received a higher-dominated board contract. This is your policy: The little ones are burdened, the great ones judge it! And we reject this, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The ÖGB is even past the disaster, just past the bankruptcy, there were pension cuts and a record loss: 63 000 members have turned their backs on the ÖGB! [[Abg. Krainer: Tell you about your appearance in the Banking Committee! That was embarrassing!]] You have a record low at the ÖGB. This is the disaster of the BAWAG that you have to answer! But They always let the little ones jump over the blade, and the big ones get away with it. That's why it would have been better to look at this BAWAG affair exactly in a separate investigation committee, because Mr. Flöttl simply ‘moved’ Mr. Vranitzky 1 million €, and no one knows why, that's already an interesting story that has not been clarified to this day. The fact that Mr Klima, even without performance, was in a board of directors of a BAWAG sub-contractor, is also interesting. Somehow this was a supply programme for failed SPÖ chancellors: The Vrannitzky has come along, the climate has come in, and that's why you've held yourself unscathed, so you've covered the whole of the ÖGB and the SPÖ and you didn't want to reveal it. And that's our criticism. In reality, in this whole scandalous story, BAWAG – ÖGB – SPÖ, in this triangel of the scandal, much more inside, would be necessary to clarify much more, should be exposed much more than this committee has done. That's a shame. I therefore believe that we should again clear this BAWAG scandal and all the links of this dense network, the red network of comrades. The day will come when we will succeed.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e7142	First of all, I would like to say that the motion for a resolution by Mrs Rossmann, ladies and gentlemen, is duly introduced, sufficiently supported and is therefore involved in the negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e7355	Next I give Mr Matznetter the floor to Mr State Secretary. You have 5 minutes of speaking time. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e7376	Madam President. High house! It is the last day, the last plenary session before the summer break, and it is today a subject of crucial importance for Austria. I can remind you: The financial sector has become one of the most growing sectors in this country. When we look at ourselves as a service company of the 21st century. Looking forward to the century, we are the first in the field of money and the insurance industry, in which growth rates are achieved, which we unfortunately no longer have to this extent and in this density in industrial production. But it is crucial for this branch of our economy that we have a perfectly functioning system of assurance. It is not only about the fact that a lot of money is on the move in this sector, but it is about the total savings of the Austrians. It is the blood circulation for all economic operators, and this system must function smoothly, from any transfer to any credit. We cannot tolerate any inconsistencies or scandals in this area every year. I mention the cases quite openly: BAWAG, Hypo Alpe Adria, AMIS; and I could continue the list for a long time. Every year something became known that should have been prevented early. Parliament – and I would really like to congratulate all the Members here – has not been active – and I come back to the expression Marathon of the President-in-Office of the Council since October, but more than a year ago, after the setting up of the Court of Auditors Subcommittee, it has already begun to examine. On behalf of my group, I would really like to reject the accusation that we would not have tried to contribute to the clarification here. Everyone believed that we would not make any contribution in the subcommittee on BAWAG to determine what failed, but we did it very well! This work has been done well by all the colleagues in the Committee. [[Abg. Strache: Now that the criminal charges had been the subject of sleep, grass and co, one has turned!]] Ladies and gentlemen, in this situation – and I say this openly – we cannot wait any longer as far as the reform of supervision is concerned. This reform must take place immediately, not only for domestic policy reasons, not only for the domestic economy, but also because the supervisory environment is an essential criterion for the rating of our banks. Just as the supervision works, it is also assessed whether a bank is bonitarian or not and whether the system works overall. [[Abg. Krainer: C plus we have!]] Mr Krainer, this is something we cannot tolerate as a policy! We must act in order to ensure that credit rating also reaches the standard that is adequate to the quality of our excellent credit sector. We'll take care of it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am saying: The work you did was a good one. Every single point will be included in this reform. In a few days' time, the Court of Auditors' report has also been available, and I only allow myself to present the first summary statement: ‘The objective of optimising organisational processes as a result of the establishment of the Financial Market Supervisory Authority in the sense of integrated supervision across the financial market cannot yet be considered to be fulfilled. Systemic weaknesses and, in part, lack of efficiency of supervisory instruments limited the impact of the integrated supervisory authority.’ – Quotes. So it's called acting. Now I ask for understanding that, of course, Members who have run the marathon in such an intensity – I have seen it myself as Members – want to continue in every place. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, only: How does that work? One could continue this investigation committee for a whole year, but the reform must bring about implementation. And that's what we want to do! It's time to act – and end the investigation, because it's good when it's done. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e7441	Next, I give the floor to Mr Broukal. You have 4 minutes of speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e7475	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I only came to the Committee in the middle of the Committee's work for the eight months, because simply then so many days of negotiations and negotiating hours were there that some of our colleagues from the federal states could not always be there. That means if you want to, I've usually listened. – Mr Rädler would say: A lot of surfed, but rarely questioned. But I've seen a lot of things in these many days and weeks. The FMA is five years old. It is a foundation of Karl-Heinz Grasser. Karl-Heinz Grasser has determined her structure. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Parliament has decided! Unanimously!]] Karl-Heinz Grasser has decided on her board: One came from the parliament club of the ÖVP, the second came from the front room of Karl-Heinz Grasser. The FMA is five years old, and the FMA has made it happen in these five years like a police officer who sleeps instead of watching it, that tens of thousands of people were killed in the case of the AMIS group. And there is plenty of evidence that the FMA and already the securities supervision in front of it, if they had acted with duty and care, the BAWAG and the BAWAG Boards in their criminal activities could have fallen into their arms much earlier than it has been. And who knows – perhaps the ÖGB would still have the BAWAG today if the FMA hadn't slept. [[Abg. Hornek: Tell the Lord Wenninger!]] The SPÖ was certainly not, but it was the Board of Directors of BAWAG – we have seen that, I think, in the investigation committee – that were criminally active there. We know, as the Committee has said, that even the Supervisory Board of BAWAG was not sufficiently informed and misinformed. There the courts will judge it, and then we will see more clearly when the judgments are made. [[Abg. Hornek: You can assume that, Mr. Broukal!]] – Well, Mr Hornek! Faith You're telling me: We are more interested than you in the fact that these things are being clarified, because they hurt us more than you, who can so rarely hide your secret joy of harm, that is probably obvious. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For me, it was very terrifying how much the FMA or the FMA's board of directors felt that Karl-Heinz Grasser was politically committed and had been instrumentalized by him. I remember the day when Mr. Traumüller did not want to admit in committee over hours that it was obvious and clear by the precise follow-up of all the FMA steps that the publications on SPÖ's party debt in the middle of the election campaign at the beginning of September 2006 could only have one source: the FMA and, in particular, him and his Board of Directors Pribil. [[Abg. Strache: How could the debts be repaid so quickly?]] I can tell you this: Because some hundred thousand people in Austria, including me, have been paying 10 s since the year 2000 each month and now € more than before and because this party is very economical, although it has no donations from the Industrial Union. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The statement of Traumüller was for me the saddest thing I have ever heard – even in my journalistic life. There's someone sitting with honey-throbbing hands and trying to fight for hours that his fingers were in the honey cap. This man is absolutely unqualified for me. And as always, this FMA reform, which we will both decide in the next few months, looks like: This Board of Management Traumüller has no right, according to all that he has offered in the Committee, to be there longer in the board. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to refer very briefly to Mr Westenthaler's argument that it is not okay for him to leave for three months now. – Mr Westenthaler, I forbid you to be hostage in your holiday planning. I'm not going on vacation for three months! I will negotiate a reform of the University Law 2002 over the summer, which you were so shocked in 2002 that it has to be repaired five years later. And if you don't believe it, come visit me – my office is in Palais Epstein – if the flight from Turkey isn't too expensive for you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e7569	The next speaker is Mrs Mikesch. 4 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e7590	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps you can still remember the year 1994, for the BAWAG certainly a very moving year. Caribbean 1 has appeared, the “consumer” was just ahead of the pleite, and “Atomic” was driven into bankruptcy by the BAWAG. In the Committee of Inquiry, the topic of Atomic was certainly a very special subject, but it was one of those areas in which the court proceedings had already been largely completed. Atomic and especially Commercial Council Alois Rohrmoser have been a subject for me personally, which has moved me very much. Alois Rohrmoser was with Atomic one of those who over many years has intensively promoted youth sports, young people, so that for all winter sports and also for Austria, very much has done, and which has also done a great deal for the region. In my active time, I have enjoyed this generous support and social responsibility for many years, and I really appreciate it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At the time of the bankruptcy, the company “Atomic for Sports” was not over-debted. And even the opening of the bankruptcy, which takes place without the in-depth examination of the bankruptcy application by the bankruptcy court, was clearly illegal. [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is a claim!]] Atomic was formally forced into bankruptcy on the basis of the operation of the BAWAG and through the interaction of bankruptcy judges and mass administrators. [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's where you're making a history falsification!]] This proves, inter alia, that most creditors have received 94 percent in bankruptcy proceedings. If we also added the final payments and bankruptcy costs, the quota would have increased to over 100 percent! Atomic paid 14 percent interest at this time. The Finnish Amer Group, which took over the company, received only 4 percent interest months later, i.e. a very huge difference. You can see what's possible! In two years alone, the interest rate was 278 million schilling! The next issue, which is certainly also remarkable, is that a purchase price of 900 million Schilling has gradually been reduced to less than half, significantly less than 400 million by means of discounts, additional agreement and kick-back payments, and the patents and trademark rights, which are of course very powerful in a world market leader, have been practically passed on at zero. [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's incredible! Do you know you're making false statements here?]] It is also noteworthy that sales to Amer was already approved before an asset status was made and before all bankruptcy claims were registered. Amer has practically bought the “cat in the bag”. There are still many things that need to be mentioned in this context. For example, the bankruptcy judge was insured by the mass administrator. This has occurred only four times since 1981 in Austria, three times comically the person of the bankruptcy judge in the case of Atomic. It would be much more to say, but one thing is also especially dear to me: The Gendarmerie in Salzburg was banned. The public prosecutor's office in Salzburg terminated all proceedings against BAWAG representatives, mass administrators, bankruptcy judges without any investigation. But there are also very people personally affected. Mr. Gendarmerie-Chefinspektor Mayer, who had acquired an excellent reputation in the case of “Lucona”, was told in the matter of Atomic that he was inconceivable and professionally inappropriate. Mr. Commercialrat Rohrmoser died after many years of fighting for his life's work on broken hearts. I wish that the BAWAG, who has not suffered any damage in this bankruptcy, would fulfill the moral obligation for the widow and descendants of Alois Rohrmoser and in any way relieve these people of the still open financial liabilities and ensure that the care costs of the widow are taken over.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e7675	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Dr. Graf. Mr deputies, you have 8 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e7696	Madam President. High house! Mr. State Secretary! One, two things still to my previous speakers in this context. Mr Westenthaler – perhaps he is judged, he may have already been on vacation; I don't know – said here – it was almost treacherous –: If Parliament is locked up, the government cannot work! I don't understand. I guess he's more likely to have: If Parliament is locked up, the Members cannot work, and I must give him a few messages. The work not only takes place in Parliament, but also in general other activities. In fact, it is that this two and a half months' conference-block – and we all agree anyway anyway, only we have not implemented it because the majority then did not want it at the end – is simply too long. There are six weeks of non-convention time, because you must not ignore one thing: The minority rights of the individual Members or of the smaller groups are in the day-to-day – and this is in fact the case! – to zero. One cannot exercise any rights of interaction, such as asking questions and the like. No special meetings can be requested, because more than half of the Members need to be held during the part-session. That doesn't get the whole opposition in line. These are the issues that we are dealing with, and we should consider how we can handle this in the future. A meeting-free time is indeed a useful one, because there is no one in Austria who does not travel on vacation, so why should it not also be done by Members and servants of Parliament. At this point, I would also like to thank the Committee chairman, on behalf of the whole Committee, for his stenographs, for the Members of Parliament, for the parliamentary services and for the legal and legislative services, but also for all of his colleagues who have been working in the Committee for over eight months. These days have been done partly overhuman. [[General condolences.]] Unfortunately, Mr. Col. stupidly only tells half the truth if he says that I had the request concerning Josef Taus on 16 May. ==References== [[Abg. Dr. Stummful:... don't let the vote!]] I don't have the majority, but I don't care, I'm telling you what it was like: ==References== In May, Joseph Taus applied to load Joseph Taus. As a result, only more than eight Members were available and we needed nine to be decisive. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] They wanted Taus on the 9th. May for 16. May load. It was only more than eight Members, I also noted that, and you have said nothing more! But here I say: The five representatives of the opposition parties were present, but only three of the government parties were there, and that is the problem! [[Abg. That's it!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: That's exactly the problem!]] At the end it was also noted that your request could not be voted on because of inability to decide, and then we also agreed on it – this is read in the Protocol, unfortunately God not in the public part, since that was in the confidential part – and I have ununified: In order to set a date for this, we should discuss this at the next meeting of the Group leader. Finally, Taus has been loaded, he has also come, that was no problem, and there has been a lot of illuminating. For you, too, did not know before, although you knew everything – Mr. Taus said it there for the first time in public – that the entire MobileTel business was from home, from the beginning it was a loyal matter and similar; I am still coming. Unfortunately, the Federal Minister for Finance is not here, he is always willing to distribute peels, especially to Parliament. It should be a thorn in his mind that in Parliament there are actually people who express themselves freely or at least try to do so. He criticises the National Council for the fact that a committee of inquiry has been set up that is supposed to harm the bank area, although we have examined corruption cases, I say, a number of listed cases of corruption. He did not criticize in June of this year Mr. Bank Chief Treichl, First Austrian, who is not really far away from him. June... – Mr State Secretary, please give the following address to the Federal Minister: I expect the same intensity of criticism of Mr Treichl from Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance, as he criticises this House! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So this man, Treichl – this is one of the system banks, one of the largest banks in Austria – said: Wherever the state or the union acts as the owner, there is a problem, and wherever there are links between the owner's side and the management side, the doors are far raised to corruption. [[Abg. That's right!]] - That's not what I'm saying, that's what Treichl says. We only wanted to examine what Treichl put in the room here, because it always means: allegations! Claims! - Who, if not Treichl, should know better? And that's why we wanted to investigate it. That he is sitting in the glass house and is his own chief controller, because he is the board of directors of the First Austrian Sparkasse private foundation and thus majority shareholder representatives at the bank, where he is Director-General, and so on, he has forgotten to say so. He throws fluffy into the public: Where the state is, there is corruption! When you look at history since 1945, you see who has the political say in this republic, you have to say that it is usually the ÖVP that represents the state – mostly together with the SPÖ. So I don't understand the criticism; it is, in part, certainly justified. I sent him an open letter, in which I told him I didn't go that far, but I also criticized him. [[Abg. Strache: Mr Treichl has damaged the financial market...!]] And I also expect this criticism from the Minister of Finance, otherwise he will only make criticism on a party-political basis. Mr Westenthaler is not here, he is probably already on vacation, but perhaps he is the true Clubobmann, colleague Scheibner. If Mr Westenthaler says here that we have had 18 research items and that we should only have examined BAWAG, I ask ten of the research items have been directly related to the BAWAG – ten! [[Abg. Scheibner:... but not finished!]] Unfortunately, we have not finished. – Or does he want to claim that BAWAG, MobilTel and so on have no connection with the BAWAG? Does he want to claim that the casino Jericho story, where BAWAG is involved and has ultimately financed, has no connection with the BAWAG? – Then why should we not investigate it? What we have done here is the big block in the example BAWAG, but we already wanted to state by a majority in the request that, in this context, one should at least consider the following BAWAG materials in order not to let them be forgotten. [[Abg. Scheibner: What's over it?]] It could have happened that if one does not list these cases, one tries not to investigate these cases. Now we have listed them – and now we do not investigate them! [[Abg. Scheibner: Look! Right now!]] Because two, three, four kilometers before the end the air went out, but not because it lacked the will to investigate, but because there is suddenly a government agreement, which says that committees have to be terminated, it costs what it wants. [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign.]] Mr Matznetter – my last sentence – you also point out that, if an investigation committee is set up, the government cannot work. – I have already asked: Where is this, except in the Government Convention? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Please understand that in a violent way, Parliament does not just do what the government decides. We are independent and stand by it. Please take note of this and work in the future even if an investigation committee meets! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e7874	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, 4 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e7898	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Let me say at the outset that the setting up of the Committee of Inquiry was correct, necessary and sensible. I think it is good to end this investigation committee now because of the findings gained. The theater of the opposition is quite understandable, it loses a pleasant stage anyway. The lamentation that informers can no longer be questioned is also linked to their own time destruction; Tag ‘Atomic’. I think it does not matter when the committee ends, whether this is today, in autumn or next year, the staging of the opposition will probably always be the same. We consider the inspection order to be completed and have recorded our findings in a comprehensive report. Mr Stummvoll said that the Committee was showing a moral view of how banks were doing. – I think that the shops around MobilTel and Mobtel in particular show a moral image of the previous government; I want to make some pictures of it visible. The pattern is always the same: With dubious financial construction, authorities are deceived to raise prices, the risk lies with the BAWAG, has earned sleep, and the disadvantages of Austrian taxpayers and Austrian telephone customers. [[Abg. Wheelers: A new version! Absorbed!]] The persons acting are also always the same: Taus, sleep, cordt – they are known and always act when it comes to big business. [[Abg. Hornek: The sleeper paid the chancellor festival, and he paid Mr. Elsner too!]] An important partner is Chernoy, to whom the Federal Criminal Office holds that there are allegations of murder, bribery, connection to organized crime, possession of sham companies, money laundering suspicions, entry bans in Bulgaria and much more; obviously a very, very difficult guy who is in many places undesirable. Not so in Austria. In Austria, this person is courted by the highest government agencies. The Ministry of the Interior, also Foreign Minister Ferrero-Waldner, has intervened personally in the visa question, although their own officials have expressed concerns about this. The former Chancellor was also on the way to intervention with sleep, and former Minister Gorbach confirmed that he was door openers for sleep at Serbian government offices. [[Abg. Scheibner: The current Federal Chancellor too! You forgot!]] But the whole thing is not a single runway, there is, of course, help from Mr Sleep to individuals when they need help. [[Abg. Scheibner: What does Mr. Gusenbauer... Mr. Sleep?]] There was also help for the black and blue government when Israel withdrew its ambassador from protest against the blue-black government, where it was again sleep that traveled to Sharon with the suitcase of money and brought the ambassador back. These are very strange refreshments between the Gauners, the Economy and the Policy, where the Committee has clarified the interaction of the people. Those who have co-cashed are still unclear, but we hope the courts will clarify that. Finally, I should like to make a comment on committee chairmen. Mr Graf spoke on Wednesday in connection with the termination of the Postenschacher Committee. – I can remind him that in the six years of their government participation, the liberals only dealt with post chess; I can present to you on the side the names of your artists; the name Graf is also on the list of artists. [[Abg. Scheibner: You're holding the secretaries before us, but you are...!]] Mr. Graf, leave the church in the village! Be glad that the Committee has ended so that you do not sink even deeper into the swamp with the previous government!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e7993	The next speaker was Mr Amon. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e8015	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Now comes the next mistrust!]] The debate and the results of the Committee of Inquiry show that the position of the People's Party was right from the outset, namely that it would be more useful to have the courts examined and judged first and to clarify political responsibility only after that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Graf, President of the Committee, regrets that certain investigations could not be carried out. – Well, when people are invited here – and that was the essential information – who are under accusation in connection with the BAWAG process, of course, they reject their statement in the Committee. You have, of course, a major obstacle to the Committee's ability to provide information. This is the one point that clearly expresses that it would have been better to wait until the courts have decided. The second reason: I even dare to say that we have at least delayed, if not hindered, the task of informing justice! [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Yes, exactly!]] Remember that the excellent prosecutor Krakow, who has said several times in the committee as a person of information, has asked us to avoid taxing him in time because he is heavily burdened with preparing for the BAWAG process. The position of the People's Party was subsequently confirmed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also think it is wrong to defuse the supervision of the financial market in Bausch and Bogen. The vast majority of all the painters, ladies and gentlemen, were before the Financial Market Supervision, which was not available at the time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For example, if Mrs Trunk is responsible for or says that the FMA would not have become active in the Causa Hypo Alpe Adria, that is the smoothest falsehood. That's not true! In fact, the auditor Deloitte has made the report to the financial market supervision that there is something wrong, and the financial market supervision has immediately become active. The allegation would have been justified if financial market supervision had not acted in this case. But she has acted, ladies and gentlemen. It is already to be questioned how the supervision of the financial market or also the National Bank or the Ministry of Finance could have prevented all that happened in the BAWAG. Because if the internal revision, if the Supervisory Board, if the auditors do not recognize these painters, ladies and gentlemen, and there may be incriminated and involved in the process, then the overarching institutions will only be very difficult to handle. [[Abg. Broukal: That's right!]] But it is not right, Mr Broukal, if you then make all the others responsible and the names of Weninger, Tumpel as Chairman of the Supervisory Board, tumpel as a responsible member of the Executive Board in the National Bank no longer appear at all. It is certainly not all right for you to push responsibility far away. [[Abg. Broukal: You're right!]] Ladies and gentlemen, it's very interesting: You know that there is the term ‘wild parliamentarian’. It describes a Member who does not belong to any political group or party anymore. – Today’s speech by Mr Stadler has given the term “wild parliamentarian” a new dimension, an understandable dimension! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To conclude: I think the position of the People's Party, to say, first to have the courts examined and then to investigate matters politically, was correct. [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign]] What we have said from the beginning has proved true: Except for nothing to pay!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e8140	Mr Scheibner is speaking as the next speaker. 8 minutes speaking time. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e8162	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Amon, always a fiery speech, but we would then also expect fiery votes. Yesterday we waited in vain for the mistrust request. [[Call BZÖ: Where was he yesterday!]] We have taken you seriously, just as we of course take your speeches seriously, if you say, for example, that you agree with the mistrust request against the Minister of Defence – would have been very justified; a Minister of Defense who has anything but the interests of the security of the country, especially the interests of the parties – but unfortunately you have missed it. But there may be the possibility to agree to a request for distrust here again. Mr. Kaipel said in a fire speech, it's all... – That wasn't a fire speech? - All right, all right. [[Abg. Parnigoni: No fire!]] If Mr Parnigoni says that this wasn't a fire talk, I don't trust to contradict him. [[Abg. Parnigoni: He was honest!]] So it was a bad speech if it wasn't a fire. It doesn't matter. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – Parnigoni said, not me. In any case, Mr Kaipel said that there is nothing more to investigate, everything is done, the inspection order has been carried out and implemented. I think he's the only one in this house who has this impression. All the others, even the chairman, have said that it has not been fully examined. When Mr. Kaipel lists those who flew with Mr. Sleep, I have to say that he has to forget to open the left side of the door. Because I remember newspaper reports that the current German Chancellor Alfred Gusenbauer also flew on one of these planes. I also remember that on the election day Mr. Sleepf was a victory party – or what was that? – or some Festl, where the Federal Chancellor was also present. If you are already criticizing someone, please remove these claws, because a committee of inquiry should consider them comprehensively. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But we had that very impression, too. Our criticism of this committee of inquiry was that at the beginning there was a lot of compromise. There was a coalition of red, green and blue, and it seems to have been hoped in the left water that you could still create a left government: Blue, green and red or at least the tolerance of a minority government is the result. One of the test balloons for this left government was the investigation committees, primarily the Eurofighter Investigation Committee, because the SPÖ said: We have already promised to order off the Eurofighters – we have discussed this very intensively yesterday – although we do not know that we can comply – we have known from the beginning anyway – but we now have to present something to make it a bit forgotten. That is why we see that we are investigating the Eurofighters for a few months, and then we're going to get something out, because people don't know that anymore. - You think so. We saw this yesterday with Mr Darabos with this compromise that was harmful to Austria. That was actually the background. One wanted to have the Eurofighter investigation committee, the Greens also, the FPÖ surprisingly then suddenly too, but one has already remembered at the opposition that it has actually given you a different theme – dear colleague Haimbuchner – the weeks and months before that, which moved the Austrians. That was not so much the interception hunters, but that was the BAWAG scandal. The largest financial scandal in the history of the Second Republic has also moved us here in Parliament for many months – I have come to it as it has been – over many months where we have noticed how the SPÖ representatives act. [[Abg. May. Hauser: Because financial market supervision has not worked! It's a hypocrisy!]] I remember the then Clubobmann Gusenbauer, who said in April after the first wave of the BAWAG scandal, it's all investigated, it's all done, we're not talking about it anymore, until then the second wave has come, where you've had some billions of damage to the taxpayer or the saver here and where you've only admitted in old manner what you could prove. Finally, it was about the fact that a bank, an important bank, was on the brink of the abyss and a professional representation such as the Austrian Trade Union Confederation was on the verge of bankruptcy. And it was the former federal government that managed to get rid of these bankruptcys with a state guarantee. It has been the accusation of party funding, it is the accusation of the political and the party... [[Abg. Broukal: From today's point of view, you can't talk about it anymore!]] I'm saying I'm saying the accusation is in the room. [[Abg. Broukal: He's outraged!]] No, it has not yet been discouraged, dear Mr Broukal, where the €13 million came from that, I assume, union union, because your account report only states: professional interests, donations based on voluntary membership. [[Abg. Broukal: It wasn't BAWAG's customer money!]] This has not been done by the industrial association, as is always the case. But there was, admittedly, also of you, party political interrelations, where the SPÖ's highest party officials were sitting in the trade union's bodies, apparently did not know anything, but were nevertheless responsible, and likewise, there were links – Elsner in the Foundation Council of the ÖGB – with the BAWAG. And, of course, there was a duty when it came to three and a half billion taxpayers' money losses – three and a half billion euros! – that it will be clarified here. So that was clear, there's something you have to do. So what would you have been looking at? And I tell you, I would even have been skeptical, because I represent the opinion – and this is true now – that a committee of inquiry, which should examine political backgrounds of scandals, can only be set up reasonably if the judicial authorities have ended their investigations, so that it is not possible for people to refuse their statement, because they say that I am still a defendant or a witness in court. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] You've seen that. But this could have been done: an investigation committee to investigate the BAWAG scandal with three and a half billion euros of damage. But they didn't want to do that quite again, because they said it didn't work out, so let's get together – red, green and blue – and see that we're doing something different. Then you just came to these 18 points, after which everything is examined, also the BAWAG, although this is no longer quite so dominant in the foreground. So such a nice compromise is at the beginning, and you, blue and green, have kept hoping that there can continue to be a common ground, even in other areas. But, please, I mean, you're all long enough in politics, I've been expecting more reality. [[Abg. Strache: We are realists, in contrast to you!]] This has been hoped for in the event that what you actually wanted is to succeed again a great coalition. That was your wishful government, dear colleague. The great coalition as the best government for this country has wished for this opposition. – Now you have her, and now suddenly you are frustrated that she is now strangling this committee and the investigations. So I'd have given you a little more political experience. Unfortunately – unfortunately, I say – as Mr Graf and others have said, many points remain open, and precisely these political links, Mr Broukal, we would have made them even clearer. [[Abg. Broukal: That was the case!]] [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign.]] But it was not as offensive to open tax records and other acts as it was in the Eurofighter Examining Committee. The rest remains that the Committee of Inquiry was necessary, would still be necessary in the future, because many things will only come out of court proceedings, especially as regards political backgrounds, which would actually interest us here and today.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e8340	The next speaker was Mr Dkfm. Dr. Bauer with 4 minutes of speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e8361	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to make a few remarks. First: The Committee worked hard and also in the Committee's environment. This committee has promoted more than some may have suspected. I also believe that it is important to get some insight into a network and to realize that it is important to regulate according to other standards. The findings gained from it are really a good basis for the necessary legal bases for the future, and I am convinced that we have everything to do with it and that it is crucial for us that we can re-establish this financial market in Austria, which is considered so important and which I also believe that this service is offered at a high wage level, in such a way that there is greater confidence and that we can ultimately also secure and create jobs in this sector. As different as the impressions of the individual political groups appear in the final reports, one thing, I believe, is undisputed by all the speakers and also by the final reports: There is an acute need for action to be taken in the field of control, yes, as I believe, on all levels of control, for example in the internal field. I think this is a bit strange if, as it were, the control is under the responsibility of the Director-General. Not everyone's a hero. Rather, he will be careful to see how his career will be in the future when he addresses certain things. The same applies to the bank auditors, who are also freely selected by the institutions, and it naturally means a sensitive disadvantage for a bank auditor if, for example, he loses the customer. Therefore, there are tests that should not have been tested. For it cannot be said that reports from the National Bank, which were very serious, are not included in the assessment somewhere. Unique, you have to say. There is therefore also a greater need for control. The state commissioners have been mentioned several times, but some – let's say it out openly – have considered it a kind of gratification. And that was their function. As far as banking supervision is concerned, we all note together that it would be better to have a strong, uniform financial market surveillance system, and that this cooperation with OeNB and FMA in the core areas was not really satisfactory in the end – this is also to be read in the Court of Auditors' report. For the purposes of these statements, I consider that a concentration of the banking supervisory areas is necessary and therefore submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In this sense, we should jointly create a strong instrument for a good financial market in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e8436	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e8520	As the next speaker, I would like to call on Mr Rädler, who has made a speaking time of 4 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e8541	Thank you, Madam President. Mr State Secretary! ==References== October of the previous year, i.e. about eight months ago, we decided to set up an investigation committee – against the votes of the ÖVP. However, the EIA has never withdrawn from the committee's work, but we have worked together to find out what should be done, but also to take into account the aspect of securing the Austrian financial centre. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Yes, you have telephoned with financial market supervision!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am very surprised that after six SPÖ delegates, who were here today at the speaker's desk, the last spoke of a network, he saw the network somewhere else, in financial market supervision, but never where it was. The BAWAG was not addressed. Why? – Because it was a network of political responsibility, which was in the left hand side The area is located and this should be kept silent after this Committee of Inquiry. However, I believe that this should also be addressed, and we should all share this with television television operators. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Exactly!]] That's almost gone down today. There were people at work, a few who deserved well, who really deserved. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haberzetl.]] I don't think you need to say anything about the ÖGB at all. There is a role that Mr Vergestnich has played in particular. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Broukal.]] Thank you, Mr Broukal! Mr Ververtnich took responsibility by explaining in the Committee: What did I have board members for? They've been paid well. I have no responsibility at all as ÖGB Chairman! – Well, if this is the responsibility of a SPÖ politician, then good night! I guess it can't be. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And then there are a few riders who have put themselves in the game. There was a smile in the Committee on Mr Wittmann, the former Minister for the Interior Schlögl, which was formed here with Mr Bogner into the red light area, up to Mr Horngacher. One does not want to mention that, which is not mentioned at all today. Mr Elsner said I didn't know him at all. Mr Wittmann said that we had big projects, we wanted to finance something with each other. – Mr. Elsner broke it down and said that I gave a few ballpoint pens to Mr. Wittmann; in fact, the Lord Heilingsetzer. They gave him a standing calendar that he put in the act. That's how it was at BAWAG. Now to those measures that are necessary. ................................................................................................................................ We also come to speak to you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] - Yes, I do. Please collect the calls, then we can answer them immediately, Mr Heinzl. Don't forget the main station in St. Pölten, that's very, very important. Now on financial market supervision. It was addressed and it is necessary that we make reforms. We also confess to that. In the case of changed financial markets, financial market supervision must also respond. We have to do something about the sending of the state commissioners. We need to do something in the field of justice. It was addressed the case of Rohrmoser, this interplay, an unfair takeover, an unfriendly takeover, which was planned here by the BAWAG in the case of Atomic. That's where the concurrence judge played with the mass manager. We must act that these things do not delay the legal possibility to intervene here. I can now tell you one more thing about Austria's financial centre. It is not necessary, however, to get out of this, just as the Members of Parliament did Trunk, who not only devastate their federal state, but also the Hypo Alpe-Adria. There have probably been losses there, 320 million have been placed in the sand, but the Hypo Alpe-Adria has also written a success story. [[Abg. Broukal: The BAWAG!]] This should not be unmentioned when discussing these things. 265 employees in 1992, 6 200 employees in this year, represented in 12 countries, increase in the value of this bank from 2 billion to 3.2 billion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At the end of the day, I may be allowed to give a copy of the letter from Jeannée’s “Kronen Zeitung” to the Green Pilz – at the same time also to be addressed to Kogler: [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign]] “And now you’re ‘doing’ what doesn’t have to vote, because it mentioned the cheap leaf ‘Austria’,...”, but now it’s over. The “Pavlatschen” you have “refunctioned as the Republic has not known it so far” is discontinued. “Now is the end of fun and you’re back where you belong: one of a few in the green Van der Bellens troupe that doesn’t interest anyone.” Very cordially, your Jeannée. Right, Hans Rädler.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e8668	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mulder. 4 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e8689	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the case of crime AMIS, we can read in the report of the ÖVP that financial market supervision has not committed any violations of law that cannot be accused of violations of law. The bankruptcy of AMIS affects 16 000 people in total, 10,000 of them in Austria, whose lives have changed, and your view of things that There are no legal violations to be found here, you have to explain to these people first. I would like to report here on the situation of a person I have spoken to and show how the situation in the family has changed as his life has changed. It is a family, both are at the beginning of fifty, the man is 35 years self-employed, and the monthly net income, which is also the family income, is 1 300 €. The man told me that when he heard of losses in securities transactions, he always thought these people were themselves guilty. He always thought he could never happen. He said he lived a normal life back then. He came to buy these securities because there was a friend in the community, a financial agent who was known in the village who was highly regarded, who himself became a victim and was quite trustworthy. However, he also inquired, and it has been said to him that this is a State-approved company controlled by financial market supervision. Nothing can happen. He has used his entire savings, he has received loans to have an additional pension in retirement. He has, as he has said, lived a normal life until then, when he heard in the news that bad times have arrived for AMIS investors. This is the fate of a family that has lost everything and is now threatened by the repayment of the loans, that it loses its home, because of course this 1 300 € per month is not enough. This family has built on the fact that nothing can happen through the activities of financial market supervision. For us from the SPÖ Group, the role of state institutions in the surveys was always important and in the foreground. And we note that financial market supervision has failed to ensure that, despite shortcomings, concessions have been granted, that there has been insufficient verification that, if infringements have been detected, no measures have been taken, that in 2004, after the financial market supervision in Luxembourg, nothing has happened here, only a year later, and that a auditor has been needed, which has then done something here in a short time, and has clarified what the financial market supervision has needed for this purpose for three years and has not brought it together. If it had been properly examined since 2002, all of this might not have happened. There is also no self-reflection in financial market supervision. We have heard that they are still proud of their work. A reform of the authorities is essential in order to prevent such cases in the future. And the authority has the responsibility to take over, because the people who are concerned must not be abandoned.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e8748	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Schools. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e8769	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Appreciate High House! After 40 Committee meetings... – I myself was there 17 times, friend Kogler, and those 17 times have hurt me enough because I am allowed to report on a moral image from the committee. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You weren't there so often!]] [[Abg. Rädler: The Kogler was always there, but never there!]] We have experienced at this time that the good culture of sitting in committees, where normal and factual discussions have been held, has been greatly changed by some Members in these committees. Mr Stadler's cry at today's meeting has been heard by one or the other, and this has been done at the committee meetings in the consultation of the information subjects. The insulting nature of Mr Kogler's speech today, for which he even received a call for an order, has also been reflected in the Committee's meetings. However, the interesting thing was: If respecters were there, for example, someone like a Croatian general, who is suspected of neglect, or respecters such as the former Minister of Finance Edlinger, the gentlemen behaved very well. They have become loud and strong, on the other hand, when young academics who have perhaps worked for three months have been there for information. These gentlemen have behaved in such a way that it was really very, very unfortunate and has hurt this House and the Members. [[Calls for Greens and FPÖ.]] Unfortunately, in these cases there has not been a call for the chairman to order. However, there have been very, very decent people who have kept this up. At that time I had the impression that the word “committee” in its dual meaning must also be considered. Because what these gentlemen have delivered there was not committee work, but perhaps committeeware. In the future, therefore, we need to ensure that this dual meaning is no longer used for our work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Second point: “Consum” and BAWAG have been intensively analysed. [[Abg. May. Kogler: When is Raiffeisen examined?]] Criminal makings have come out of existence over the past 20 years. The owners who should have exercised their ownership rights have not asked any questions on the Supervisory Board. Owners were the chairmen, the financial managers of the respective sub-union unions. The vice-president of the union, Mr Wenninger, was responsible. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Say something about the ÖVP policy!]] The big problem: None of these gentlemen provided information to the owner or the owner, Mr Vergestnitsch. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Hochleitner, Koren!]] That is really interesting, I asked Mr Vergestnich how he was in his time with the full right of guidance for Mr Elsner. He could buy any other Executive Director what he had to do, and also, who he was allowed to talk to or not, or just forbid it. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You are the Easter Hasen Party! “My name is Hase!”]] This right of guidance was the root of the whole problem. Elsner could switch and walk as he wanted. He got that from Mr Tumpel, and that was then passed on. Mr Weninger has not withdrawn it, Mr Verzetznitsch has never questioned it. Owner failure in the worst form with the result that the ÖGB today cannot pay its pensioners their promised pensions, with the result that the ÖGB has nothing left, that it builds a deficit, that it no longer gets the dividends and that it has to be borne by the economy through the difficult time so that the ÖGB as such is not lost. The social partners are badly damaged, the Chamber of Labour is of course no longer as capable of action as it used to be. It is simply not up to this problem, and it is only when this Banking Committee is finally over, because in the light of this committee, all these organisations will not take responsibility for the people who have not taken responsibility for their responsibilities. If the Committee ceases, there will be quiet and quiet changes in staff. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One more thing: I would like to thank all the people who in Austria today, in supervisory councils, in association boards or also in cooperatives, have their responsibilities, ask critical questions because they work with foreign money and know that they have to ask these questions. They're wearing Austria. I thank all these people.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e8892	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e8913	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Yes, Mrs Becher, you are right when you point out that there are fates, human fates at the AMIS bankruptcy – and not just one, but many. There are many materials available to us from savers, from investors who, in the hope of being able to reuse the money in their pension, have completely lost it. You can't point to this often enough. In this context – and I must say that – the summary of the EIA in its report, which it has presented, seems a bit strange. I quote: ‘Fest says that financial market supervision has always acted correctly and under existing laws.’ I'm guessing the FMA adheres to the federal constitution. As far as the first part of this sentence, ‘acts correctly,’ is concerned, I must already ask: Mr President, have you been asleep while we conducted the surveys on AMIS? Such a conclusion can only be drawn if you have not pursued the Causa AMIS from the beginning to the end. There is sufficient evidence that the FMA and the predecessor, the Federal Securities Supervisory Authority, have acted clearly too lax in relation to AMIS. It may be that they have acted correctly, but the accusation is that they have acted too late in any case, they have not acted enough in any case where there have been accusations. And there are several examples for that. An example of this is the holding of customer funds. The Federal Securities Authority has already pointed this out. Later this was still the subject in the newly founded FMA. There have also been penalties in this context. But the FMA has never seen itself forced to stop a security service provider holding customer funds. He's not allowed to. [[Abg. May. Stadler: 2 000 € they hung!]] Very correct, Mr Stadler: They point out that the sanctions that have been taken have been extremely modest. There it would be in the hands of the FMA to stop this holding of customer funds once and for all, and this could have prevented this bankruptcy of AMIS with high probability. But let's go on. Another example of the lax behaviour of financial market supervision is the Luxembourg Financial Market Supervisory Authority's report on the suspension of two funds. That was in March of 2004. Furthermore, it is also published in the “Wiener Zeitung”. It then lasted until the autumn of 2004 until financial market surveillance took place at all. There have been problems with communication within the departments. And you describe such a financial market supervision as something that works efficiently and where it is acted correctly – a financial market supervision that takes many months until two departments can understand that there is a need for action here, Mr. Stummvoll. So you have to explain that to the injured! [[Abg. That's what he knew!]] Second point: Indeed, they did not act in this context until March 2005. In fact, they have declared a management contract unlawful in connection with a re-establishment of this company, which they had previously recognised as legitimate. That's how the FMA works! A third point – and I think that is a very hard point – is: High commissions have been paid in connection with the mediation of contracts, and the examiner we had here in the Committee has not found it worth the effort to create a simple invoice, namely the one to put these high commissions into a connection with the sales. If she had only done this once, but only once, she would have found that the AMIS never made revenues in this order and could not have made them. At the latest at that time, the Financial Markets Authority should have raised the alarm bells. With some good will, with medium-term expertise and with some sustainability, this case, this AMIS bankruptcy could have been prevented, and it could have been prevented that there are tens of thousands of people in Austria whose claims cannot be satisfied by the investor compensation. You have to argue with the courts today about these compensations. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e8966	As the next speaker, Mr Klubobmann Strache has a speaking time of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e8988	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I make two requests at the beginning of my speech. Proposal According to § 45 GOG-NR of Mr KO Strache and other Members on the report. § 45 GOG-NR on the activities of the Audit Committee on Financial Market Supervision, BAWAG, Hypo Alpe Adria and other financial services; TOP 1 meeting of the National Council of 6.7.2007. The National Council may decide: ‘The oral report of the Committee of the Regions of 6.7.2007 pursuant to § 45 GOG-NR shall be taken into account.’ Proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. § 45 GOG-NR on the activities of the Audit Committee on Financial Market Supervision, BAWAG, Hypo Alpe Adria and other financial services; TOP 1 of the National Council meeting of 6.7.2007. The National Council may decide: ‘The Audit Committee on Financial Market Supervision, BAWAG, Hypo Alpe Adria and other financial services providers shall, in accordance with § 45 GOG-NR, provide a deadline for the submission of a written committee report up to 30. ==References== [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now to the content. It's been very interesting. As a result, the BAWAG has built 2.15 billion €, speculation losses worth 30 billion schilling. The Hypo Alpe-Adria with swap-businesses has speculated a total of € 328 million, saying 4.5 billion schilling loss. AMIS, an investor fraud with €70 million, around a billion schilling! So a total of €3.2 billion – 43.7 billion Schilling – in criminal machinations, a damage that has arisen for citizens, for investors. And you are speaking, Mr. stupid, of no one interested in this republic? [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Did we know before!]] You're talking about that nobody's interested? – This is the provocation of the taxpayer you have given the best with your process today! [[Congratulation with FPÖ and Greens.]] Mr President, if you also say that you knew everything, then you are a co-founder. Why didn't you drop anything? Why didn't you change anything? This is precisely this hypocrisy, which has rightly been spoken of, where today you and the Socialists have an interest in turning it off, so that you can neither dig the bodies of the neighbor nor the bodies of the basement in this area of the open points of the Committee of Inquiry. This is not a success story, as Mr Mister M., Minister of Finance, Molterer, did. This is certainly not a success story! And Mr. Doppelnull-Agent Gusenbauer, who is subordinated to Mr. M., Minister of Finance Molterer, cannot sell it as a success story. One cannot sell as a success story that Mr. Hundstorfer, the union president, who, by the way, has prevented the SPÖ and the ÖVP from being invited as a witness – he was suggested – the Mr. Hundstorfer, who finally signed a declaration of liability for the ÖGB in the amount of over one billion to cover the BAWAG damage, then put himself in public and said he was sorry, he believed he signed a list of presences. [[Abg. Krainer: Was not suggested at all!]] [[Abg. Krainer: Not at all!]] These are the responsibilities that exist today and that you, of course, do not want to hear! If Mr Matznetter, together with you, Mr President of the ÖVP, turns out to be Mr Finanz-State Secretary Matznetter, and then to be told that this is all in the government programme that will optimize FMA control, do you believe that will calm us if there is a party in this Republic that does not even hold elections that she has put in place?- Oh, my God! [[Call the ÖVP: So it is!]] – So much is worth the Government Treaty and the Government Convention that one must certainly assume that nothing will change, because one does not even keep promises that one is putting! That is why it is important to address this. There's been criminal powers. The Committee's aim was to reveal the political responsibility of judicial and judicial events. There has been a result below the line that has shown that there has been a complete failure of all audit bodies – regardless of whether the FMA, the financial market supervision, the National Bank, auditors, state commissioners, internal revisions et cetera. A network has also opened up in the area of MobilTel, where an Austro-Oligarch, Mr. Sleepf, Mr. Taus, Mr. Cordt, has done business with criminal personalities, against whom there are also international arrest warrants, and where you have intervened from the ÖVP. [[Call the ÖVP: Who?]] – In the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which Mr Taus has...
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e9083	Please, Mr. Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e9099	Criminal personalities have come to Austria, have been allowed to enter so that you can complete this business. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's inconspicuous, and that's what you've prevented with turning off today. – A shame for democracy!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e9135	We are now coming to the last round of speakers. To ensure that all political groups have equal television time, aliquot is now shortened. The first speaker to speak is Mr Klubobmann Cap. - You'll stay for 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e9165	Madam President. High house! My Thank you, Mr. Mastbauer, who was really present all the time. I would like to thank all those who have contributed here. [[General condolences.]] I also thank Jan Krainer and his crew, who, as well as Günther Herbs in the Eurofighter Committee, worked hard. Respect and recognition for Martin Graf of the FPÖ for the management of the committee, similar to Peter Pilz for the leadership of the Eurofighter Investigation Committee! [[General condolences.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Grand Cross Award!]] It was absolutely logical that there were these two committees of inquiry, especially those, as we see in today's debate, which has been used to protect the savers and who have had to clarify the question of political responsibility and financial supervision. [[Abg. Rädler: BAWAG-Sparer!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, right!]] As one of the results, I say to you: Where you, as an ÖVP, are inside everywhere – in the supervisory councils, the state commissioners, the whole networks, the tax market supervision – it has been shown that this does not work, and it has been shown that if we want to protect the savers, we need reforms here. And for all that has happened, the ÖVP is responsible! You should take note of this! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: What about Mr. Koren, who is still on the board of directors?]] Yes, just as you are responsible for the Eurofighter Treaty – the largest tax waste of the Second Republic since 1945 on aircraft that no one needed in that country! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why I say to you, including today's debate and Martin Graf's fair report, that: Light has been brought into the dark here. [[Call the ÖVP:Yes!]] It's good that there's the investigative committee. The Committee of Inquiry should also be a minority right! We'll stay there! We're not going to pull a millimeter of it off. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: There you can agree to the request today!]] I would like to write the ÖVP in the main book here with all the coalitionary affection: You have to reconsider your relationship with Parliament, you have to reconsider your relationship with the committee of inquiry, because you have not supported it: neither from the ministries nor from what has affected the persons concerned. Here I have to say that there is this disturbed relationship. You have to change that, I'll tell you when you talk about democracy here. And, of course, this call also goes to you, and I believe that this is good for Parliament and for the people when they realize that we are taking our task seriously. Parliament also has the task of exercising control in the interests of the population! [[Call the FPÖ:Bravo!]] In any case, we stand to do so, and we will also represent it in the future. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Mr Cap, you will not turn to the committee today if it is serious to you what you are saying! Then don't help with turning off!]] No, that's a very important position anyway. That is why I say it was useful for these committees to be here, including this committee!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e9325	Next speaker is Mrs Tamandl. You have 3 minutes of speech instead of 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e9346	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap, what you're talking about here – the only few days you've been in the committee! Thank you, for example, to the Mr. Procedural Advocate. I'd like to join you in this thanks. But then why don't you thank the employees who really have been sitting until the night and who have prepared protocols for us? [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's what Mr. Krainer has already done! There you have to be honest! If you'd been careful, you'd have heard that!]] Mr Cap, unlike you, we have kept our line from the beginning. We have said that we do not need an investigation committee. We did not say, however, that we do not need an investigation committee because we already know everything – and that is why we have understood it stupidly today – but only because no new findings have been made about the FMA, which we will not implement in any way in a reform. And, please, we didn't want to investigate either, but if the courts deal with the case of BAWAG, with the case of AMIS, with which Hypo Alpe Adria are involved, and if the information people such as Zwettler, Elsner and Co always turn out and say, I can't say anything, I don't want to say, I don't want and so on, then you can't say that we didn't want to investigate. [[Abg. Strache: But the Lord Grasser and the Lord of Sleep could not deny! They have prevented these people from being uploaded!]] Mr Strache, you were not in committee at all! I don't know why you know so well! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] By the way, because of “ÖVP networks” and what do I know what everything: I believe that in all these points, which have been raised today by my colleagues, but also by other political groups, the SPÖ networks were the most dense. It should be borne in mind that Mr Verzehnitsch signed a liability as a property owner that the ÖGB signed a liability for the BAWAG. He's still got advice from an auditor. He can't do that at all! He didn't look like it. And Mr. Elsner almost forced him to do the poor thing, because he couldn't be consulted at all – and everything was over the ÖGB bodies as well! It's really a scandal that you're going out here saying that were "ÖVP networks". – You really have to stand up to it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, we draw from it our consequences by being in favour of financial market supervision reforms, of course also the auditor, the communication between the supervisory authority and auditors, but of course also the speech obligation or the right of auditors to speak in a Supervisory Board. [[Abg. Strache: And prevent a grass and a sleep from being agreed as witnesses! Harm the financial centre – that is the task of the ÖVP!]] That's very, very important. [[Abg. Strache: You damage the financial area by not discovering, but covering it! Criminals want to cover you!]] We want reforms. We want to improve something and change something. But what do you want? – You just want to criminalize! And: If you want to, you're not in place here!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e9444	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Kogler. The rest of your group's speaking time is 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e9465	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! First of all, I would also like to thank Dr. Brussbauer, who has been present here. [[General condolences.]] He has made sure that the Witness surveys have been very correct and objective, and he has almost never had to intervene – this to your cry here right now. Next point: I am also grateful to Chairman Dr. Graf – he did not have it easy, and not because the SPÖ has given up the pressure of the Raiffeisen Group on the open track and has simply neglected its parliamentary duties not only but also locked into the basement – and there they are now in a single alliance with the dark forces of this house. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ as well as with SPÖ representatives]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Green Blue, the new party!]] We will bring them out again and strengthen their backbone! But now to the important points: It has been said that everything has actually been examined. [[Call:Despite ÖVP]] That's right! We have promoted as much results as we rarely did before another committee of inquiry, and there will rarely be so many changes on the basis of a committee of inquiry. But it remains – and these are still the central questions – which should not be examined: There are the links we have discussed here, and I am now quoting from the files. [[Abg. Chernoy!]] I referred to the case of Raiffeisen. It is about examining how the Austrian authorities deal with such accusations that come here and where we then discover that politics protects rather than fighting them – what I am presenting to you here. A report from the files: Subject: Mogilevich Semion, criminal organization, Fursin, Firtash – these are the customers of Raiffeisen Investment who have held trust in this criminal organization, at least that is the suspicion – I say: Suspected – referred to as high-ranking members of this SMO; it is probably the largest criminal organisation in Eastern Europe according to the files. The people in Vienna are talking about our banking sites, which you hold so high, and we must at least look at them, without the blame of Raiffeisen, because we want to know what the authorities are doing! And what we've seen is terrifying: The FMA does something and makes the act disappear, the ministry doesn't do anything and says: It was nothing!, and the Federal Criminal Office, which is responsible for it, must not do anything. - Yeah, if that's not a scandal, then what?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] – And everything just for the protection of raiffeisen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] I quote: All the aforementioned links between these companies and the members of the SMO are based on the relevant confidential information. – They must not even enter into criminal proceedings, so the international authority is in contact! And you want to refer us to the criminal court to reveal these actions?- Oh, my God! Another act in this case: Raiffeisen Central Bank, the documents will be handed over, link between Firtash and Centrobank – which also belongs to Raiffeisen. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Next point. It is found that Firtash is a customer of the bank and Raiffeisen has built up the structures for these customers. – Structures built up: So it's in the files, and you want to put it all under the carpet! [[Abg. Wheelers:... Raiffeisen advertising!]] Against these people there are in half Europe investigations for money laundering – among other things in Berlin: Firtash is one of the main figures in the investigation process; another act. And now to the point that we have already discussed here on Wednesday, but I like to repeat it briefly: The fun is over if, due to certain business practices, we fail to make further progress with the Austrian banks and with our ideas of the market economy of this market economy regulation in the East – to Ukraine, to Russia et cetera; we should engage there, yes, of course! And there are others there – under quotations – “laws”. We cannot be more papal than the Pope, but one cannot be: that we do business there and at the same time import the structures from there – that is, large criminal – into Vienna! That really can't be true! [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] In the meantime, the investigative authorities assume that a murder in Vienna environment is related to the Bulgaria deal, the stone and clear, if it was a contract murder – there is only a mandatory document – that he... – Yes, but we want to investigate whether the authorities are allowed to investigate! [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Evidence!]] And the authorities are being hindered by the intervention of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – that is the scandal! [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] But it is said by the economic police, by a certain Mr Horngacher, whom Mr Strasser has still promised in his farewell speech. He's sitting on the dock today – right! – because he has also provided this network with false information, such as the BAWAG. [[Abg. Strache: ÖVP interventionitis! ... and as with the 40 000 visas!]] Information about Mr. Chernoy – another great criminal who is being sought in the half-world –: For the sake of the good order, we want to have an information – and then the economic police are told that there is nothing at all, although the files are stuffed. That's how it works here. You have to write that in the main book! That's what you want to do. The small officials have all quoted you in front of the committee – you were there! – but when it came to the really big fish: Mr. Sleepf, to Mr. Taus – who has just been allowed to say; he has experienced his miracles in the committee – to Mr. Cordt, to Mr. Colombo, who simply switched from the financial director of Telekom to the RHI Financial Board, where he first arranged a great business for Mr. Sleepf on the other hand... [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Taus was there too!]] [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign]] And that's what you call a great banking and stock exchange place?! – In other countries, such practices have long been combated. [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign again.]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e9647	The next speaker is Mr Bucher. You have 7 minutes of remaining speaking time available to your group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e9669	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! A few words to the marathon runner Josef Cap, who gave up in the last second, you almost have to say who left the power: If you say, Mr. Klubobmann, that you have brought light into the dark, then the accusation will not save you that it was you who turned off the light. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That was Kurt Bergmann!]] [[BZÖ and Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] They are responsible – and this has been done correctly by Mr Kogler – for the fact that we have not been able to hear important information from the Committee of Inquiry. [[Abg. Strache: Dog Tore Rejected! Hunger has been rejected!]] You have the responsibility to bear it – exclusively you! - because you managed to fall over. Well, now many can say: Once you've been on the ground, it's not too far anymore, but the ÖVP is really awesome at the point because it has managed to put the SPÖ on the blame, so to speak. [[Abg. Broukal:... yourself...!]] I'll tell you: If you claim to have put light in the dark, we can assess and read it on the content of the motions for resolutions. [[Abg. Strache: The ÖVP looks that it remains dark, together with the SPÖ! Deep black and dark!]] Let us look at the motions for resolutions tabled by the ÖVP and the SPÖ. This is a technical report, where there is nothing in it except how many meetings we have had, otherwise there is no assessment at all. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What about Hypo Alpe-Adria? ... be sold!]] Let us look at the motions for resolutions tabled by the Greens, the BZÖ and the FPÖ. [[Abg. Broukal: What about the Hypo Alpe-Adria?- Oh, my God!]] There's content inside, there's knowledge inside that we've gained from the last eight months! [[Consistency with BZÖ, FPÖ and Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] It reads the seriousness and responsibility that we have shown for this country in the survey and in the assessment of the subject matter of evidence. This is a really fair and serious departure from the subject of proof, Mr Cap, that is what you are writing behind your ears! Of course: Control must be worth something to us. The ÖVP has always taken a straight path, you have to recognise it. You said from the beginning: We do not need any committees of inquiry, but you have done so as if the largest scandal of the Second Republic was waiting for Austria, not only at the BAWAG, which you are responsible for, but also at Atomic, at AMIS and at Hypo Alpe-Adria Bank. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] Only: At the Hypo Alpe-Adria Bank, we have seen that in this case, the debt is not only due to those responsible for the board of directors, but that it is quite different things that have taken place here and that the FMA has also taken a very dubious role here. It was the FMA that wanted to distract from its failure at BAWAG and reacted in excess in the assessment of the Hypo Alpe-Adria Bank – after all, a bank that must be proud of all Austria, which had only 130 employees in 1990, today employs more than 6,000 people, with a balance sheet total of over €30 billion. [[OBJECTIVES]] So we have a company that we must be proud of, and not a company that we quickly condemn, just because the FMA Boards were unable to properly assess the scandal at BAWAG and impose sanctions, and here have carried out preliminary assessments, convictions regarding the board of the Hypo Alpe-Adria. [[Aufgaben bei BZÖ und der Abg. May. Trunk.]] This is not a serious process on the part of financial market supervision. That is why we are also saying that there is a huge need for reform here. We were also proposing the creation of an overall supervisory body under the umbrella of the Austrian National Bank. We will see to what extent the proposals made by Mr Matznetter, the current Secretary of State, are also included in the negotiations and what is going to happen under the heading. I am already saying that the former member of the National Council, the current Chairman of the Board of Management of BAWAG, Dr. Nowotny, will be appointed as a new central bank. [[Abg. Scheibner: That would be post-chacher!]] – That’s not a post-checker again, as we were allowed to hear today, that’s a proper order. [[Abg. Broukal: Do you doubt that No-wotny is a top-notch director? Do you want to doubt that?]] – Yes, we are already seeing the reactions of the SPÖ when I am listening to Mr Broukal. I am not concerned with who comes to the train in the first place, but with the banks, with the assurances that the investment service companies and the stock exchange will also be properly supervised in the future. We owe this to investors. We have always said – because we wanted to investigate the BAWAG –: If the Republic of Austria assumes 900 million liability for a financial institution like the BAWAG, we also have the damn duty to ensure that there is information here. The SPÖ has left this way of education in advance. That's not all right, ladies and gentlemen. If we continue to assume 20 000 euros in liability for any deposit granted at a bank institution in Austria, it is our responsibility to go so far as to monitor and control all these banking institutions properly in the interests of the investor. This can only work if we create a supervisory body with the ability and competence to supervise banks and insurance companies and investment services companies. That is why we say: The FMA must be integrated under the roof of the sheet. A genuinely strategic supervisory instrument is to be created here, which will also ensure this control. That is why I am bringing forward a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Josef Bucherein. The request for the reforms which I have already called for is sufficiently set out and the motion for a resolution has been distributed. Finally, I say what the Banking Investigation Committee is about to do: I'm sorry we didn't pull out anymore. A lot of money was spent, but the investigation was missed.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e9833	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bucher is sufficiently supported, has been presented in the main points, has been distributed and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e9982	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We now come to an actual correction by the honourable Member Mag. Donnerbauer. . I would like to draw your attention to the provisions of § 58 of the Rules of Procedure. 2 minutes maximum speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e10009	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Mr State Secretary! I am actually correcting my colleague Mag. Bruno Rossmann, who claimed that the ÖVP had prevented Court of Auditors meetings. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Not approved!]] – That's wrong! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I insist: not allowed!]] The EIA has, like all other political groups, made a number of proposals on dates. It is up to the chairman, who has not been able since October 2006 to hold just a meeting on content.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e10064	We shall now proceed to the votes. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as well as the honourable Members, Mr Mag. In accordance with Article 45 of the Rules of Procedure Act, Kogler, colleagues, requested the Audit Committee on Financial Market Supervision, BAWAG, Hypo Alpe-Adria and other financial services providers to report a new deadline until 30. ==References== We shall now proceed to the vote on this request. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give a sign. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. Mr Strache, fellow Members, requested that we take note of the Committee chairman's oral report. [[Abg. Well, don't move?]] I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. In addition, Mr Krainer, Mr Stummvoll, Mr President, asked Members to take note of the Committee's oral report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give a positive signal. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Rossmann, colleagues on financial market surveillance reform. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Graf, colleagues, on improving the regulatory supervision of the Austrian financial market and amending it in relation to legal matters. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Krainer, Dr. Stummvoll, ladies and gentlemen, on the reform of financial market supervision in order to strengthen Austria's financial centre. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. (E 33.) Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Bucher, colleagues and colleagues on the need for reform of Austrian banking and financial market supervision. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we have ended the vote. At 1.15 p.m. I will call on the Federal Chancellor's statement and the Federal Minister for European and International Affairs. Until then, I'll interrupt the meeting. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e10157	I'll start the interrupted session again. [[13:16:53]] 2. Point Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Minister for European and International Affairs pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on the European Council
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e10191	We now come to item 2 of the agenda. I would first like to give the floor to Mr Gusenbauer, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, to his statement. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e10215	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: “My name is Gusenbauer, Alfred Gusenbauer! ”]] The European Council met on 21 and 22. The main issue of the future of the European Constitutional Treaty is June. You know that, on the basis of the preliminary work of the Convention and an Intergovernmental Conference, there was a work of contract which bears the signatures of all the Heads of State or Government of the European Union. This work has been ratified in 18 Member States. Unfortunately, in a number of Member States it has not been ratified, and in two Member States, namely the Netherlands and France, there has been a referendum with a negative outcome. Therefore, the question of how this Constitutional Treaty, which should govern the future of Europe, can bring a maximum into a new, modified form, so that the situation, if you want to, will be overcome by the blockade of the last months and years, because of course the whole debate on the constitutional process has consumed many political energies in Europe, which we urgently need to address the problems. The Austrian Federal Government has set itself the goal – based on the fact that the Austrian National Council has ratified this Constitutional Treaty by a very large majority – to save as far as possible the substance of this Constitutional Treaty. Our baseline was that it is less symbolic – they also have their meaning – but more about the content and substance of the Treaty. This has led to very detailed discussions at this Council in Brussels, because unfortunately there have also been very controversial opinions on this. Of course, I fully understand the need to change something in countries where the referendum went out with no, so that the basis for an agreement is given. I have much less understanding for countries in which there has not been a negative referendum and in which the same Heads of State and Government who have already signed this Treaty have then come up with very substantial demands for change. That is why this was an extremely complicated matter. We have, however, been concerned with preventing this blockade situation, in particular, and contributing to a clear mandate for an Intergovernmental Conference, so that it can actually be concluded during the Portuguese Presidency of this Treaty in the coming autumn. Then, of course, the ratification must begin again – with the aim that this renewed basis for Europe exists in the year of the elections to the European Parliament, i.e. in 2009. Well, what happened? – Of course, a compromise – as the history of Europe is naturally marked by various compromises – but I think it is a valuable compromise in the substance. One question that has been asked is: What happens to the heart of this entire Constitutional Treaty, namely the Charter of Fundamental Rights? – There have essentially been two options: Either this Charter of Fundamental Rights is watered down to such an extent that it is acceptable to Britain as well, or we leave the Charter of Fundamental Rights completely unchanged, but unfortunately it must be taken into account that the UK can conduct an opt-out. I think we have decided on the better way of leaving the Charter of Fundamental Rights unchanged. This means that this Charter of Fundamental Rights applies to 26 Member States, including the entire operation of the institutions of the European Union. I believe that this centrepiece of the European Union is of crucial importance, especially for the citizens of Europe. The second point that has been raised was to preserve the functioning of Europe, i.e. the extension of majority decisions to ensure the ability to act. No change has been made in this formula at all, which is important because the larger Europe of the 27 Member States must first and foremost be interested in being capable of acting and therefore acting. The third point that was very important is the appearance of Europe in the world; that is: Europe with one voice. There has been the proposal contained in the Constitutional Treaty, namely to have a foreign minister of the European Union. Well, he will not be called Foreign Minister in the future, but he will have the same competences already provided for in the Constitutional Treaty. If you look at the conflicts that exist in the world today, how often the citizens are asked, not only in Europe, but especially outside Europe, where the voice of Europe is and how it can be used efficiently, then I believe that it is important that there is this symbol with the competences, the High Representative for the European Union's foreign policy. Where there has been a change, not all changes occur at the desired time. There is now a shift to 2014 among the institutions, namely the new and double majority voting mode, which has a certain internal logic, because the change in the Commission's number of Member States will be only two thirds of the number of Member States in the Commission from 2014 onwards, and the corresponding equal rotation will only enter into force in 2014 so that the change in voting mode in the Council will take place at the same time as the Commission's change. In addition, there have, of course, been some concessions to Poland, which at this stage was a difficult negotiating partner, but that was not so easy, as one noted at the subsequent discussion in Poland. I therefore believe that it is reasonable to agree on this compromise. This renewed treaty will not correspond to what the Constitutional Treaty was because of the path of a classic Treaty of amendment. That is, the desire for greater transparency, for simpler and clearer formulations is unfortunately not fulfilled by this compromise, but the substance, I believe, has been largely preserved. I find it interesting that there is also a change in the trend of European policy. There has been a very broad discussion, bearing in mind the need for many Member States to strengthen social balance in Europe. This is, of course, the result of elections in Europe, but of course also the outcome of the discussions by individual of the new members of the Council. The French President Sarkozy and others have made themselves very strong on this issue. This has led – I believe this is very important for Austria – to the fact that the issues of general interest, namely all the services provided by the public sector, whether at local or regional level, have been included as a very important argument in the conclusions, because it is a matter of maintaining Europe's competitiveness – that is crucial – but also of giving citizens more security. Above all, it is also about the fact that the emphasis on general care, together with the now established fundamental social rights, is creating a new balance, which is intended to help Europe to move more towards full employment and strengthen growth. On this path, Europe has not been unsuccessful in recent times when we are looking at current developments, especially in the euro area, but also beyond. Fortunately, we have very good economic growth, unemployment is falling in general. It is therefore important that, when defining future policies, we point out that we want to take this balanced path. I therefore welcome the fact that this has been enshrined in the conclusions. Of course, the question of transport is of crucial importance to Austria again and again. This is important because it is stated that in 2008 there will be a new road cost directive of the European Union, which will be very important for us, because the question arises whether the environmental costs caused will also be taken into account in the calculation of tolls, such as truck tolls. This is a major concern of Austria. You know that in our climate policy, we have the problem that in our country 26 percent of the CO2 emissions are caused by traffic, and of course there is a lot of transit traffic and tank tourism. The Road Costs Directive is crucial for the future design of policy, because all that is caused in addition to CO2 in transport ultimately burdens the Austrian industry on the certificates that are made available. This means that the change in transport policy is not only crucial for climate policy, but also for the future of industrial policy and economic policy in Austria. I believe that the Foreign Minister and I, together, have been very successful in anchoring an even stronger formulation here, which is to be the future objective of transport policy. We note that during the entire Council meetings this year, it was not just able to accommodate it, but to focus the message more and more on the fact that the Commission should present a draft that would lead to internalisation of external costs, namely environmental costs. This would significantly facilitate the future of transport policy in Austria and would be a major contribution to climate change policy. We also drew attention to the fact that this whole Treaty discussion is not only about what is to be taken away from the Constitutional Treaty in order to get a consensus, but it was important to us that the European Union address new challenges. Together with the German Presidency, climate change policy has now been integrated into this Treaty as a European policy. I think this is an important step in two directions: because first climate change policy is a European and global issue, and secondly because it also signals that the European Union is able to respond to new challenges and to include these new challenges in the Treaty. What many may feel disturbing – including me – is that individual, even symbolic questions are no longer contained in the contract, so that the hymn and the flag are no longer contained. One can say that all of this is not so important, but I think it would have been reasonable to further anchor that symbolically as a sign of Europe's unity. It will only have a relatively small effect that this will no longer be inside, because the European flag will continue to be displayed on our numbering boards, the European anthem will continue to be played on all occasions and the European flag will be used. I think this is an aspect that at least seems a bit funny to me, according to the motto: You don't write it into the contract now and then pretend it won't happen anymore! – Discussions sometimes take place at a level that is difficult to understand. But obviously there has been great objections to the symbols. This has been so on the question of the European Foreign Minister. But that's going to change the substance of living together, I think. What we must say in this context, however, is that we are still very advanced in the European unification movement and that there are states that are not only members of the European Union but also participating in the euro, who are members of Schengen, and now also States that are acting on the basis of the renewed Treaty. Then there are a number of states, primarily Great Britain, which had an opt-out on many questions already in the past and now also has this on the issue of the Charter of Fundamental Rights. That is why we will have to ask ourselves, of course, in the UK in particular, what the relationship with the European Union and with Europe should look like if there are more and more questions where the UK is not involved in the unification of Europe. But this is a discussion that needs to be held, above all, there and which is ultimately decided in the UK. For us it is important, I believe, that this outcome of the Brussels Council has taken an important step, that we finally come to this renewed basis of the Treaty and that in future in Europe we will be able to address the major challenges that the citizens of our country and the citizens of Europe expect us to face together. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e10285	I would like to thank the Federal Chancellor for his statement and now ask the Federal Minister for European and International Affairs Dr Plassnik for her statement. Speech time: 11 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e10306	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Europe is on course. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where to?]] . We have a specific roadmap, we have a clear job assignment, and this is, to a large extent, also a merit of the German Presidency, the German Presidency, which I really want to express in this regard. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] The recognition applies not only to Federal Chancellor Angela Merkel, but also to Foreign Minister Frank Steinmeier and the teams of the two. They have done excellent work, with the necessary wide view, but also with the necessary persistence in detail. We now have the opportunity to have a European election on a clear legal basis in 2009. We have also done such preparatory work. Under the Austrian Presidency in Klosterneuburg, we have launched this debate again. We have successfully worked with the Federal Chancellor to ensure that the Constitutional Treaty does not make any significant cuts. The institutional structure is intact, the substantial provisions are also. In this sense, we have also acted on behalf of the Austrian People's Office and will continue to do so within the framework of the Intergovernmental Conference. The consent of Austria was given on 11 June. ==References====External links== We had the lead rail in the Federal Council on May 5, 2005. We didn't allow any steps to be taken. Then: This was a danger, which has also lurked at specific points in very concrete terms – steps away from the status quo, for example, by taking into account the legal obligations of the Charter of Fundamental Rights. Europe has overcome divisions that have occurred in recent months, and this is a good thing, because the power of Europe does not come from its division, but from its unity. The reform Treaty will now restore the European Union's hands to focus on the essentials, the concrete results for Europeans. We have come to a new level in the European Union. I think that is part of a learning process that we have been through in the last two years. And I think it's a positive side of a learning process: less high-end evening, away from the pathos, away from the comparisons, the common comparisons of the 19th century. ==References====External links== ==References== The terms “federal state”, “government”, “minister” should be deleted from the vocabulary, as no one intends to build a state or a superstate with the European Union. [[Abg. Bitch: Why?]] What may be called constitutional syndicia or what some have understood in this way was therefore removed from the texts. That too, as I think, is a positive development. What I did not like about the process – and I would also like to say quite clearly – is that the cancellations of legibility, because this new reform treaty – already the mandate shows in this direction – will serve classical legal technology, the integration into existing legal bases. It would have been a step forward if one had come to a uniform representation here too, but that was not inside. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The European Union will be able through this Reform Treaty to carry out its tasks quickly and efficiently and with improved tools. Improved tools are available in two areas: internal security and external security. There are also the great expectations of the citizens of the European Union. Internal security – an issue that has taken up a wide area at the European Council. The rules for very concrete cooperation between the police and the judicial authorities will be significantly improved. There's still a lot of potential here. Then: In a single area of law, freedom and unhindered travel and work, there is also the need to improve instruments such as those to combat crime. The Prümer Treaty, in which Austria is known to have a pioneering role, has been explicitly raised to the European level, thus being an example, a model also for the others. It makes it easier to exchange fingerprint data, DNA data, car data – an essential help also for our security authorities. The target date for extending the Schengen area to our neighbours was also confirmed. ==References== January 2008 on land, because airports have been subject to their own rules. Günther Platter and his team are also working very closely with the neighbours to make the necessary practical arrangements so that there is more security for everyone. The Frontex border protection agency was also strengthened. – The objective was reaffirmed in 2010 to create a common European asylum regime. A news that I would also like to mention concerns the energy sector. For the first time, we now have a contractual basis, which is also devoted to the issue of energy security – a topic which is very important not only for the Polish population but also for the European population as a whole. New – from my point of view also part of this larger European learning process – is the ability of the European Union to let go, which is now also documented. In other words, shifts of competence are no longer a one-way road, one road only in one direction, that is only possible in the direction of Brussels, but also in the other direction. This is a small provision in the overall mandate, but one that will certainly continue to concern us more often in the future. That is, ladies and gentlemen, living subsidiarity. For this we have also worked during the Austrian Presidency – also here a red-and-white-red fingerprint, if you like. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It also improved the subsidiarity control of national parliaments. It is also beginning to reflect on a change that will lead to a closer linkage, a stronger networking of the national level with the European level. Overall, the mood in Europe has improved. This, of course, also has to do with the economic situation, with the improved economic situation. The second point in which there are improved tools is foreign policy; the Federal Chancellor has already pointed this out. There will be a High Representative/High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Whether or not to call him a foreign minister is not a crucial question. It is more important that he/she be represented throughout the European Union, that, if one wants to do so, there should be institutional adjustment, and that a European External Action Service should be given to him/her, which can also better involve the expertise of the Member States. The fact that we have come to a uniform legal personality is also, I believe, very important, because this enables the European Union to join as such, international treaties. Finally, let me draw up two specific points of foreign policy: the Middle East and Kosovo – these are the two issues that are now the biggest concern of our European Foreign Ministers, which are at the very top of the agenda. The Kosovo issue is a test of the common European foreign and security policy, but also a test of international policy, because this issue is currently underway in the United Nations Security Council, and finally a test of reality for Belgrade and Priština. We need a fast and sustainable solution to this last status issue in the Balkans. This is important for the stability and future capacity of the region as a whole. A lot of time has been lost, especially by Serbia for the Serbs and Serbs on their European path. People need clarity, and the coming months will certainly be a measure of Europe's strength throughout the region. We also have the task of knowingly caring for neighborhoods beyond the EU's day-to-day. This is an important part of our own foreign policy. The German EU Presidency has adopted the theme of European Neighbourhood Policy in a special way and has made significant contributions, in particular, to the Black Sea region and to a Central Asian strategy. I believe that this is also something that we should mention very positively in the overall review of the German EU Presidency. We ourselves will continue the constant of Austrian foreign policy, especially in the Danube region, with determination. We have had a meeting of regional partners in Bratislava this week and are closely intertwined under Slovak leadership. The new Treaty of Reform of the European Union, which was adopted by the Foreign Ministers on 23 March. On the basis of the precise mandate adopted by the European Council, it will be possible for all of us to reinforce the red and white-red profile of Austrian foreign policy in the neighbourhood. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e10385	Thank you, Mrs Plassnik, for your comments. We are going into the debate on the statements. First speaker is Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Van der Bellen. 7 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e10412	Mr President. Mrs. Plassnik! The EU is sailing on course, you said. – Your word in God’s ear, I believe, says the proverb. Let us assume, I assume, that Mrs Foreign Minister has essentially the same ideas as I – or at least very similar – which is now the right course for the European Union. We also believe that the German Presidency has succeeded in achieving something important, that it should focus on two priorities at the March Summit or at the Ju- The summit was very committed: first in the field of climate protection and then in the rescue attempt in relation to the European Constitution. Thus, in the first half of 2007, we can say that, together with you, Mrs Minister, we find the EU on the right track. But I am explicitly limited to this period of time, Mrs Minister and Mr Bundeskanzler, because what is coming now will be the decisive thing, which text will be submitted to us for the vote and which text we will actually have to do here in Parliament. It is true, Mr Federal Chancellor, that it is provisionally felt that essential parts - substance, I believe, you have called it - of the Treaty now, in June 2007, have been saved: the better ability to act by the principle of the double majority, albeit by seven to ten years, has shifted the stronger rights of participation of the European Parliament, i.e. a stronger separation of power within the EU, and so on. However, nothing has been achieved for the civility of the Constitution. On the contrary! You have rightly pointed out that there is now, as it were, no book in which you will be able to look up, but that it will be a simple amendment treaty that will probably be as unreadable as the previous Treaties. This means that citizens will only have to return to professionals to understand what it is all about. I believe that this is an euphemism. The fact that the United Kingdom is adopting itself from the Charter of Fundamental Rights is more than a beauty error under this Constitutional Treaty. How is the EU to be credible that this is the catalogue of fundamental and freedom rights within the European Union, the famous catalogue of values to which one would like to call in Sunday's speeches, which, so to speak, makes Europe at the heart, if one wants to do so, ideological, which in part distinguishes us from other states or states in this world, if there is a country that says: That's nice and good, but we're not there for whatever reason!Unknown term type: "%s".? That's not a mistake in beauty, but that's something very strange. I then come to the point that it may not be an accident that the new Treaty – not a Constitutional Treaty, but a Treaty – has also saved something else from the Constitutional Treaty, namely the possibility to get out of the EU. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I expressly welcome – if it is true; everything with great reservations, for we have often heard what has been decided in the EU, and then it has not turned out right – that we are finally getting a new road cost directive, which also includes external costs, environmental damage, and therefore, of course, opens up quite different possibilities in toll policy. Yeah, great, when it gets that far! [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and the Deputies Mag. Worm and Dr. One.]] Now to the point with the symbolic flag: I have only now become aware of this, and the question is already raised – of course, our beautiful red-and-white-red flag we have hanging everywhere –: Have we ever broken our minds about whether it is legitimate, legitimate, legal, that we have also been hanging the EU flag here? I don't think anyone here ever broke his head over it. It is quite natural to use them. If there is such strong resistance to the new EU Treaty on this symbolic issue, what does that mean? – First of all, I thought: That's it, isn't it? We get the essence, the improvement of the ability to act, the double majority in decisions taken by the EU, but if you look at what rite states like Canada or the USA operate with their flag – I personally find it exaggerating – then you think: But not having a flag at all? Imagine, Austria has no red-white-red flag and no eagle! Wouldn't we have something to do with that? So, what is behind this strong rejection of these symbols? – That can only be the reason for having strong reservations, so to speak, against everything similar to the state, against all that the EU ultimately makes. Then we have to ask ourselves whether those countries that want to see in the European Union – despite all the commitment of the Heads of Government – only a common market plus NATO, are properly removed in the European Union. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In view of the events at this summit, there are two questions: I think we are a little wrong with the Polish government, because, finally, the square root issue in the majority decision is not fundamentally unworthy of democracy or the like, it would have been a different rule, while the UK’s opt-out represents a different quality of dissent – apart from the fact that Tony Blair personally signed all the contracts at the head of government, over all the years, and also the Charter of Fundamental Rights and the entire Constitutional Treaty. And then he comes home and does nothing! Tony Blair's signature under the current amendment contract – or whatever the name of this one – is not worth anything, but it is nothing because it was replaced by Gordon Brown on the following day. So, how the British are still going to behave by the end of 2007, when it comes to the “introduced”, namely the wording of the text, that will still be carefully looked at. I also take the papers away – how should I say? – The Polish government is already trying to distance – there is a “press” article from Saturday, 30. June, still at the time of the German Presidency. - We'll see if the whole thing goes off again. If it is true that the essence of the contract has been saved, yes, then I will personally agree with it. But if not – Blankoscheck is nobody! I do not want to be weakened here in the Austrian Parliament and once again weakened and once again weakened versions of this Constitutional Treaty, which I agree with, and then some flag-enemy comes, so to speak, as a short formula for all those who do not want the EU at all, and the whole thing starts new. Slowly I feel rather brusked by this process. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e10513	The next speaker was Mr Dr. One. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e10534	Mr President. High house! Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! First of all, I would like to express my appreciation for the German Presidency, but I would also like to thank you, Mr Bundeskanzler, and you, Mrs Foreign Minister, on the one hand, and on the other hand I would also like to thank you: Thank you for having succeeded in completing a degree now. It was important that the European Union finally take this step and that we get out of the blockade. Secondly, my recognition of the fact that you, Mr Bundeskanzler – which has also been confirmed by representatives of the German Presidency – seem to have played an extraordinarily general role. It is important in the Union that there are other players who ensure that everyone can come to a solution together. And I would like to thank you for that too. [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] Let me make a little critical comment – I do not want to deal with details of the Treaty now, but the two speeches have been addressed by the Government Bank and also by Dr. Van der Bellen, and I would just like to make a brief comment: It is amazing that there seem to be a number of Heads of Government in Europe who can accept the Treaty and the amendments to the Treaty only if they throw themselves into the eyes of ordinary gravel before. Because now it is time to start calling things the way they do not understand people outside the Intergovernmental Conference – it must not be called ‘foreign ministers’, but it must be called ‘high representative’, because everyone knows what that is, and things that are a law must not be called ‘law’, because that would mean a superstate – that is, honestly, with faith said, that is crazy! – The citizens are not so crazy about these questions! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: But it is for deception!]] Let me come to another aspect, and let me try to let you share in an experience I had on Tuesday this week. I went to Warsaw on Tuesday as chairman of the Foreign Policy Committee, where I took the opportunity to visit my colleagues in the Sejm and, on the other hand, in the Senate. I then had the opportunity to visit a museum, the Museum of the Warsaw Uprising of 1944. The motive why I went to Warsaw was essentially that I am deeply convinced that in the European Union only if we and everyone else are interested in what others want, feel and think about. If we are in need of what is important to us ourselves, and the rest is ours, we will not achieve any solutions there either. [[Abg. That's what you're thinking at the end of what we need, isn't it? – Austria last!]] No, we should know very well what we ourselves need, Mr Strache, but you think exclusively of that! The other 26 are yours! So to say it again: It is crucial in a club with 27 members that you are interested in the others 26. This applies to us as much as to everyone else, and that was also the basis for discussion with my Polish partners. What experience do I want to tell you? – The experience is that I visited this museum about the 1944 Warsaw Uprising, which has been opened since 2004 and was built under the then mayor of Warsaw, Lech Kaczynski. The decision to build this museum has already fallen in 1981. Nothing has happened until 2003 – and then today's president and then mayor of Warsaw has built this museum. Why is that important? – In Warsaw, there was an uprising of Polish citizens against the German occupation in 1944, on 1 January 1944. Starting August 1944, when the Poles succeeded in freeing much of the half of Warsaw from the occupation, they fought for 63 days with the lowest means to hand over a free Warsaw or to hand over a liberated city to the coming Red Army. – There the Poles have fought to be responsible for being free again. This has been important to them, and for this many, many people have left their lives, a total of 200,000. Why am I telling you that? – Because the story is marked by the fact that at the same time the Red Army has already stood on the other side of the Vistula and has done nothing but has watched until the Germans cast down the uprising. Parts of the Red Army are standing there and just watched. – The Western Allies have helped to some extent through the supply of food and weapons, but only to a very small extent, but have made it very clear to the Polish exile government that they have other concerns than now to open up a new front. And the Germans, when the uprising began, shot 10,000 civilians every day at Hitler's command, to the punishment for the uprising. That alone is tragic enough, but the point is: In the last 60 years, the Poles have not even had the opportunity to make this their story what it is, a very, very honorable and recognizing attempt to free themselves. It did not match the communist ideology. Stalin said that's him. He's got another government in his hand. He didn't want to recognize the exile government. The Western Allies did not find this particularly attractive either. – And now today’s President of the State has built this museum to remember it. I'm telling this story for a single reason: It is important in that it makes the soul landscape of those who make politics there to a great extent – and some of them, which makes it difficult for others today, better understand. In the past centuries, people in Poland have not only learned from this example that they cannot really rely on anyone. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if we are not interested in such facts, we also do not understand the difficulties that partners sometimes make. That's why I remembered the story today and here. I think we must keep in mind the fact that a club with 27 members, which works as the European Union, must also be interested in the other 26. – Mr Strache, the “also” is extra for you! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] I think that now that this has been set in motion, which you have gratefully set in motion, we also need time and commitment to be interested in making progress in terms of content.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e10623	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Strache. Also 7 minutes speaking time. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e10644	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, if you would also have used your speaking time to raise so much heart and understanding of Austrian concerns as well, I would have liked to do so. [[Abg. Broukal: Not always, Mr. Strache! Not always! Please!]] In your speech today, you have completely disregarded that. And I will then talk about what the Austrian-rich concerns and needs are ultimately in this misdevelopment of the European Union. And that's a lot. Today we have the situation that only 36 percent of Austrians think the European Union is a good thing. This means that 64 percent of the people in Austria are rightly concerned and no longer think that this is such a good thing, because there is a wrong development. This misdevelopment has now been resumed! That is where the European Council has spoken, and again there has been nothing good for Austria but nothing good for Europe as a whole in the interests of the citizens. It was ardent words that we heard today from the Federal Chancellor and also from the Foreign Minister. In this context, I would like to quote some personalities: Under the slogan ‘pure power policy’, the renowned German constitutional lawyer Karl Albrecht Schachtschneider formulated what was being driven in the European Council or in the direction of the Constitutional Treaty, as it were, reform treaty, as it were, as ‘pure power policy’! German President Roman Herzog has recently been declared in the world – I quote – “that the European Union will only exist if it... does not interfere in things that could at least be regulated equally well by the Member States”. And then we're going to go on: This is a "necessary condition whose non-fulfilment would lead to the failure of the European Union as a whole, because the already pronounced emotional distance of citizens prevails." - Quote. This is exactly the point – and these are warning words of personalities that should be taken seriously. If the foreign minister says today that Europe is sailing on course, I ask her: Yeah, where and with whom? – Without the Austrian citizens you sail! You do not even let them talk to you on this question! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is a question of whether you are prepared, apart from the Austrian population, without participation, without national referendum, to make a sale of the Austrian homeland, our interests, our resources, the sale of our water, the sale of all our rights, the possibility of self-determination, our own laws, the sale of Austrian workers' protection. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: You know that's not true!]] [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Mr. Strache, you tell fairy tales!]] All of this you sacrifice at the altar of the European Union, to neutrality! That is what we are saying as the only Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in this House. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Lunacek: fairy talers!]] That is why it is so important to read critically the text of the Constitution as well, and those of the new Constitutional or Reform Treaty – because words are now being changed to deceive citizens. Of course you want a state! And if you have said that essential passages of the EU Constitutional Treaty – where ÖVP, BZÖ, Greens and Reds in this House have all been voted with Hurra – have now been preserved, then we are right to be afraid and concerned, because then one must fear that perhaps those passages that have been kept “The whole week” have been very well illuminated by writing that – Articles 1 to 6 – the Constitution and the law set by the institutions of the Union have, in principle, preferred the right of every Member State. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Not with Hurra!]] – That means that our Austrian constitution, which we liberals are at least proud of, is to be replaced by 100 percent by a European that citizens do not want! [[Abg. Dr. One: This is white nonsense!]] That's what it's like: We do not want the task of our Austrian constitution! We want to know this saved our constitution and neutrality – and that is what Austrians should be able to find in a referendum. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. One: This is white nonsense!]] – That's no nonsense! So you say “The whole week ” writes nonsense? – That can be already, but you should do that with the “all week”. In the Constitutional Treaty, ÖVP, BZÖ, Greens and SPÖ voted in favour of the freedom of speech of Barbara Rosenkranz, who is ultimately the hero for the preservation of Austrian interests, with which we have determined: We do not want to be militaryly compatible with NATO, as the EU Constitutional Treaty provides, with no NATO compatibility! - The comrades from the SPÖ are silent. Of course it goes in this direction, and that's where you play! They also play a role in making NATO-compatible military policy compatible with this Constitutional Treaty, and in the end they probably want to take the path to NATO. Tell me honestly that you want to abolish neutrality! The Old Federal Chancellor Schüssel was at least honest, he compared it to Lipizzans and Mozart balls. [[Abg. Dr. Schussel: Adorable!]] – You were at least honest that you did not give any real value to neutrality. But you already have to tell people the truth, and it is important to highlight that. It is important to highlight that we unfortunately come to a development where you are not willing to rethink where you continue – uncitizened! I don't know, at the Bilderberger conference in Istanbul you might get some specifications, but that's yes, please, not the meaning and purpose to live close to citizens to live what the Austrians want! And the Austrians do not want to withdraw sovereignty rights here. I say it quite openly: If it goes further towards the formation of a Union dictatorship, towards a Union constitutional dictatorship, then we must also seriously consider the withdrawal not only, but probably also attack it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I say this quite openly, because it cannot and should not be that all our freedoms are sacrificed on the European altar. It already said Pericles: “The secret of freedom is courage.” – And it says George Orwell rightfully: [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker.]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: He was good!]] “If freedom means anything at all, it means the right to tell people what they don’t want to hear.” – I tell you quite openly, just as Rousseau said – and that’s very close to me: [[Call to the Greens: Do not take the word “freedom ” into your mouth!]] “I prefer the dangerous freedom rather than a quiet slavery.” One must sometimes also have the courage to address things in such a way so that perhaps even the usual rules of good sound can be removed, because it is necessary when it comes to truth and when it comes to maintaining freedom. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Do you know what these words mean?]] This project of the European Union, which you are moving forward today, which all the other four political groups in this House have advanced with Hurra, is heading towards globalisation dictatorship, towards social-political ice-colding Europe, where all the laws of Brussels are to be decreed against us, you are delegating everything to Brussels – and we are actually experiencing a levelling down. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: The opposite is true!]] [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Social fundamental rights are to come!]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: The opposite is true!]] Ask the citizens – I come to the conclusion – because they recognize this development! You've realized that you've been completely removed from the citizens. – We liberals certainly not! We will represent the interests of the Austrians in the sense of Austria first!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e10915	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Schüssel. Also 7 minutes speaking time. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e10936	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Strache, you are a gifted conspiracy theorist: from the Bilderbergers to the “Constitutional dictatorship” of the European Union. So I think, honestly, we do not need to fear anyone: neither the Bilderberger – even if Alfred Gusenbauer was there at the conference – nor do we need to fear a European Treaty, whether it be a reform treaty or a constitutional treaty. [[Abg. Strache: But you are afraid of the citizens!]] [[Abg. Strache: You are afraid of the citizens by not making a referendum!]] [[Abg. Strache: This is even said by the constitutional lawyers Mayer and Öhlinger that they consider a referendum necessary!]] I would like to begin by congratulating the German Presidency Angela Merkel and Frank-Walter Steinmeier. This was a good half-year – very, very difficult, because first of all some critical things have been dealt with externally and it has not been quite easy in the European Union's internal relationship to deal with this square of the circle. So warm congratulations from here to Germany to our friends and neighbors! [[In the case of the ÖVP, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] I said that the German Presidency almost had to deal with the “quadrature of the circle” because, on the one hand, it wanted to avoid the splitting or splitting of Europe, on the other, it did not want to risk the French and the Dutch, who said no to the Treaty in a referendum. [[Call the FPÖ:Thank God!]] So it had to be something new, but at the same time the substance, which is also very important for Austria, had to be preserved to a large extent – and for that, those who have not yet ratified it, such as the Poles, the British or the Czechs, had to be recovered. We have always said, even in some of these discussions here, that it will probably be more difficult to involve the British and the Poles and the Czechs than to find a solution together with the French and Dutch. And I have to say quite honestly: Indeed, I believe that this has been achieved to a very reasonable extent! Of course, this also has to do with the fact that the mood for the European Union has improved significantly. Since the beginning of the Austrian Presidency a year and a half ago, the mood of seeing the EU as a good thing – membership is a good thing – has increased from 50 to 57 percent. That's not so bad! – Yes, yes, I know you probably have experience in this area of manipulation of your own statistics, Mr Strache. [[Abg. Strache: Don't believe any statistics you didn't fake yourself! – That’s exactly the motto!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: That's why you never let the citizens talk with you! That is why there is no referendum!]] But you cannot be pleased about Europe at all. [[Abg. Street: If the mood is so good, you could let it vote! If the mood is so good, you could make a referendum!]] A little more relaxed relationship with our European flag, with the Austrian flag, with our home country Austria and with the further horizon of Europe, you could already have – after 12 years of membership – dear friends of the FPÖ! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Well, this improved mood also depends on simply delivering better results for the simple citizen. We now have 5 million additional jobs in the EU over the last two years. And then it starts: The peace within the Union is secured, jobs are increasing, economic data is good. But what we have now seen, especially because of the discussions at the European Council, before and after, is that a Union with 27 will become stronger. It will no longer be possible to keep all of them in the same path – so painfully you may have to see it today. This is an interesting example, Mr President, especially in the case of the British, which you mentioned. The British, who do not participate in the euro zone, the British who do not participate in the Schengen zone, which are excluded from the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which does not participate in the improved policy – and this will be a very exciting issue – in judicial and police cooperation, would once I say purely quantitatively, from about half of the important, relevant issues outside. – And there are some who want to imitate them so to speak! That's a point you need to talk about. It is therefore likely that there will have to be a greater scope of European policies. And there's now, as I said, a very interesting course for Austria: Do we want to participate in this emerging core group of European policy: yes or no? That is the crucial point! I personally – I say this very openly here – say yes, because of course we are more weighty, stronger in the European Union, our Austrian interests can better represent, for example in trade policy, in security policy, in the fight against crime, also in a reasonable policy towards Africa – refugee policy and problems – towards Russia, towards America and so on. We must not overlook the fact that it is over with the one-pole system in world politics, where only the Americans give the tone; we have today the Chinese, Indians, probably in the near future Brazilians and South Africa, who will act as global players together with Russia. It is also interesting that the American historian and political scientist Fukuyama, who once foresaw the end of history – thanks to this quote Hans-Dietrich Genscher – has now revised his statements. He said history goes on, and the world will be closer to the European Union in the future in the life model than to the Americans. The EU is and can be a future model. – I think that is really very interesting, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The last thought, because the foreign minister also saw beyond the border of the plate as far as the Balkans and the Middle East are concerned: I would like to make this point of Austrian foreign policy a great compliment and also a further courage for increased commitment in this area – I believe that this is in agreement with our chairman in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Especially the initiatives of recent weeks and months, the journey through several states in the Gulf region, bilateral contacts with Israeli Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni, former Palestinian Foreign Minister Ziad Abu Amr, Hanan Ashrawi, the women's conference – women in the Middle East – with an excellent participation including the American Foreign Minister: That's something! And this also shows that Vienna has not lost any of its radiance: for the Balkans, for the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, but also in the Middle East. Keep going! Both of you have our support for a good treaty and for a similar foreign policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e11082	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. Also 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e11104	Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Strache, you will not receive any attention today with a scream of departure, not even in the Al-Capone look from the speaker's desk, because it does not bother you, Mr. Strache, and because all people know that leaving the EU would plunge the country into a disaster – economically, monetaryly and otherwise. [[Abg. Strache: You are unfortunately a fashionable banana!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Stache: Mr. Modebanause!]] This is the incredibleness of your EU policy. [[Abg. Street: If you can't talk, no one will talk to you!]] In the same way, we caught you with another fact: They have been running through the country for weeks now and are expressing their support for the great freedom, namely for the great freedom for South Tyrol, but do not hide and tell people that you are sitting in a political group in the European Parliament, hand in hand, shoulder to shoulder with the South Tyrol traitors who have historically fought against the freedom of South Tyrol, namely the "Mussolini Group", with whom you sit in the European Parliament. [[Abg. Strache: Please don't have a sipping liability to family members! That's what we're sorry about!]] This is a scandal, and that is not credible, Mr. Strache. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] However, I would actually like to welcome Mr Gusenbauer back to the country, wish you a good morning, because after Guatemala's time it is in the middle of the morning. He looks a little tired too, but that's not a problem. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Gusenbauer, what bothers me simply is your appearance in the European Union. I believe that in the European Union, too, Mr Gusenbauer is not forbidden under great pressure from other countries and from the large countries of the genuine movement. And the last summit was something like that. All have, of course, been committed to the interests of their countries – interestingly, the new members, the Poles, for example, the Czechs, but also the older, as we know, the British, of course, again and again. But instead of criticizing them, it should also be noted that they are also fighting for the concerns of their people and their people and also for their co-determination, Mr Gusenbauer, and that is what I am doing with you. Mr Van der Bellen has spoken of symbols, such as the flag. In the EU, it is all about symbols; this is very interesting, there are even symbol deals. I have here the latest issue of the magazine “Der Spiegel”, and they have reported on a meeting of the Austrian Chancellor with the German Foreign Minister, who has tried to condescend his European colleagues, is here. Now I'm literally quoting: “This was still easy in the morning. There Steinmeier – the German Foreign Minister – “ sat across from the abusive chancellor Alfred Gusenbauer from Austria and recorded his covetous look at his wrists. Spontaneously, the German opened its sparkling cuff buttons – it has so-called EU cuff buttons – “with the EU star logo and offered them as a gift.” Mr Gusenbauer was very happy and quiet again. – And now I did not know, Mr Gusenbauer, that this is so easy with you that it is so easy and that you are actually willing to make such deals. [[Abg. The semi-moon expert!]] [[Abg. Marizzi: Semi-moon expert!]] Since I have allowed myself to acquire a wonderful, new, beautiful pair of cuff buttons, kept in red color, today, and may present them to you today. However, like Mr Steinmeier, I would like to make a deal with you, Mr Gusenbauer. I give you beautiful red cuff buttons here – if you give them on the white shirt, you are even on the road red-white-red – and you promise to reverse the unjustified mineral oil tax increase for all drivers. That would be an offer. I congratulate you! [[The speaker turned to the government bank and handed over the named cuff buttons to Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer.]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Marizzi:... summit cross to that!]] However, as far as the European Union is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, the EU – and some journalist wrote it once – is developing more and more towards the EU Principality, and that is something that is bothering us. More and more have less to say, and a few actually have more and more. That's a development that's just for a small country like Austria, but it's a big country with net payers... – Don't be so upset! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Don't be so upset! Blood pressure, Friday afternoon, it's still the urgent one anyway, you can get excited again! Go down blood pressure! Mr Gusenbauer, this is the problem: We are a small country, but we are a large country in terms of net payments. 386.6 million € on average, since we are with the EU, we have been paying into the pot. And what happened? Every time you go to the EU and come back, we are rowed down as far as our voting rights are concerned, for example. We are only fifteenth in terms of the influence of Austria on its voting rights. Of the old principle of one man, one vote, there is nothing at all, but even the new countries – Hungary, the Czech Republic, Poland, Romania – drive us around the ears, not only in the voting rights, but also when it comes to representing the interests of the domestic population properly. Our money for a bad development of the EU – this is too precious for us, because it is tax money that we have and that we also have to manage – you too, Mr Gusenbauer! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Strache: You voted with “Hurra”!]] We therefore believe that this Constitutional Treaty, which is here and is being discussed, is simply going in the wrong direction. This is why Herbert Scheibnerus' model of a core Europe will also be presented today in the form of a motion for a resolution. [[Abg. Street: The disbelief in person!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner:... Free State of Carinthia!]] The European Union forgets people, travels like an empty train through Europe, with a few well-paid, highly-dominated creatives, but without a people – and this is a development that we reject! No democratization takes place through a new treaty, but quite the contrary: less direct democracy, less co-determination and more and more issues that also move us, from the EU tax to the division, from asylum seekers across Europe to questions of the non-participating referendum and the further development of Turkey's accession, against which we speak very clearly, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Parnigoni: These are asylum seekers!]] We do not want that; Turkey does not belong to the European Union. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why we would ask you, Dr. Gusenbauer, to pay more attention to the interests of the Austrians in the future and, if it is necessary to continue with the demise of our country, as far as voting rights are concerned, to cut down on the table and to pay less contributions, less tax money into the European Union. [[Abg. Strache: You helped make a doubling of the contributions possible!]] That would move the citizens. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say one last word to Mrs Ewing: Your story about Poland was interesting and correct, but I would have liked to have you analyzed the history of Austria from the speaker's desk just as intensively, for example the Carinthian defence campaign, where thousands of Austrians have left their lives, and this would also be worth a story and would contribute to an ordinary feeling, also in relation to the concerns of the Austrian population. [[Abg. Strache: A pure steam plumber!]] To talk about Poland all the time is also significant. It is significant that you forget Austria even in a European debate. That's the idea of the SPÖ: Not Austria is in the foreground, but, as one has said, thinking about the other countries. It is good to think about the others, but we are Austrians, we are proud that we have a red and white-red heart – and that is what you have to represent at the level of the European Union!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e11355	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e11377	Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I wonder what kind of EU constitution Mr Strache and Mr Westenthal have read when they are constantly talking about terms such as “dictatur”. Above all they were, Mr. Strache: ‘Union dictatorship’. They seem to have not read this and have not found that the European Parliament has increased its rights over this Constitution and what is hopefully now. [[Abg. Strache: Now there is the name deception! Now it’s called “Reform Treaty ”!]] And this would be an important step towards a stronger democracy in this Europe, where the institution, which is the only one actually elected, also receives full parliamentary rights. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Street:... our rights will be abandoned! A dictatorship is emerging!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: This is the understanding of the Greens of Democracy?]] You may want to read, take the Austrian dictionary or also the German dictionary from me and look at what dictatorship means, and also look at what freedom and courage mean! [[Abg. Strache: Read about the division of violence that does not exist there!]] You said the secret of freedom is courage. You know what? – Courage needs freedom to think. Whether you know exactly what that means, I don't know. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So take a dictionary and see how “dictatur” is spelled out, what that means and how “Parliament” and “democracy” are spelled out, because then you may rather know why the Greens, too, originally agreed to this Constitutional Treaty and why we have also found that a strengthening of the European Parliament is now important that this strengthening of democracy was an important aspect. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Bad speech!]] [[Abg. Strache: The happiest slaves are the most bitter enemies of freedom!]] But back to the main topic: What this last summit showed – and this is already a great disappointment – is that the determination of those 18 states and governments plus four who also wanted to ratify actually came too late that they underestimated that the European Union has internal opponents that they are sitting within the Union itself. They want to reduce the European Union on the market plus NATO and have no political union. That would have been the task of the Austrian Federal Government, together with the other 17 states, to consider in time how to meet those who want to reduce the whole to a minimum, such as former British Prime Minister Blair – as Van der Bellen and Caspar Einm have already said. He has signed the Constitutional Treaty, he has signed the Charter of Fundamental Rights, and now he no longer wants it all – and is not even Prime Minister the next day. So, it would have been important for these 18 states to have considered in time how to actually make the mood and not underestimate the determination of these inner opponents. On the Charter of Fundamental Rights: This is really an important step. Although the British now carry out their opt-out, the Poles are also considering this, and it is true that as a citizen or citizen, one cannot go directly to the ECJ, but one must take the national legal path, but someone who really knows about human rights, namely Prof. Hannes Tretter of the Ludwig Boltzmann Institute, says: [[Abg. Strache: Where is the international law lawsuit against the Czech Republic, which is unanimous...!]] The States that fear a future Charter of Fundamental Rights may fear it even now. It is true that the European Court of Justice has already referred to it in the case of decisions since it was signed in 2000. - Quote. That's good and right! And that will continue to be the case. [[Abg. Street: Where is the European Court of Justice on the question of the illegal Beneš decrees? Where?]] And, despite the opting out of their government, the British citizens will probably be able to expect a lot. Important is: This Charter of Fundamental Rights contains rights that have not yet existed, which are also not available in the European Convention on Human Rights – rights to healthy, safe and worthy working conditions, including the right to strike! Especially in the UK, where many millions of workers are badly paid, this is something where it would be important for Britain to participate. However, this Charter of Fundamental Rights also contains something that this Federal Government, and especially the ÖVP, is certainly not very pleased, namely the right to non-discrimination due to sexual orientation. This is also an important point. In total, this Charter of Fundamental Rights is one that actually introduces new rights for citizens. I would therefore like to make a request that we can make against the opting out of a country. [[Quoted print version removed]] I very much hope that this will also be approved by the ÖVP. In fact, the same proposal was adopted in Vienna's Landtag on 28 November. In June 2007, at the request of the Greens, the SPÖ voted in favour of it, even the liberals voted in favour, only the ÖVP abstained or voted against. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] I'm curious if ÖVP says this time, she doesn't want the UK to have an opt-out on the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e11566	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Lunacek is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application shall have the following wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e11618	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e11639	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Minister! Mr Klubobmann Strache, if you've been thinking about freedom, I think of it: Freedom increases with the number of possibilities. Citizens have more opportunities in the European Union, they also use them with travel freedom and, and, [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Street: You do not even give the citizens the opportunity to vote! They are afraid of the citizens!]] But now to another chapter that I want to devote more to in my remarks, and that is the question of internal security. This is something that has not been discussed in public in this debate as much as the so-called Constitutional Treaty or Amendment Treaty. The Foreign Minister has already lost one word or another on this matter today. It is important in that it concerns us as a member country. Members of the European Council have identified the issue of European migration policy as a priority. This term is widely understood in the EU and regulates, in addition to migration prospects, internal aspects such as legal immigration, integration, protection of refugees, border controls, readmission agreements and combating illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings. [[Abg. Street: Grace to us God! More abuse!]] And that's something important! In this context, it was important to conclude genuine partnerships with third countries, and there have been successes here, Mr Klubobmann Strache, which are good successes for our country. And when these third countries are respected – hearing [[Abg. Blow: Which one? Which one?]] Keep going, Mr. Klubobmann! I know that it is a question of controlling migration flows and combating the crimes associated with them, in particular trafficking in human beings and also towing. [[Abg. Strache: You can't call it a single one!]] And that's important! [[Abg. Bitch: Abuse is as high as never before!]] Now let me tell you something, Mr Strache: I already know that there is a certain scepticism here in Austria that the Europeanisation of migration policy could cause the national states to lose control of a willing immigration. This must remain the task of the national states, since we believe that we can and should be able to define which persons with what qualifications and what criteria are allowed to come to Austria. That's, I think, Common Sense here. It is a pleasure that the European Union has now reaffirmed once again at this summit that it takes integration seriously and gives great attention to this issue under the title of ‘unity in diversity’. It is also important that there is a pan-European objective in that asylum schemes are to be implemented by 2010. Then: Austria has a large proportion of asylum applications compared to the population; you know that. [[Abg. Strache: You just need to stop the abuse! Stop the abuse!]] It is therefore very welcome from the point of view of our country, our state, if, in Europe, the asylum seekers are divided in solidarity and the granting of asylum rights is, so to speak, carried in solidarity by all European countries. That's something essential! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, it is also very important to mention that the extension of the Schengen area, which is an improvement in the daily life of citizens, has been confirmed with high priority. For example, the European Council encouraged Member States participating in the project to continue their efforts to meet all the conditions necessary to ensure that internal border controls at land and sea borders can be lifted by the end of December 2007 and at the air borders by March 2008. This is a great advantage for the citizens, especially for Austria, because we are meeting with the neighbouring countries Slovenia, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia. This will remove border controls and make it easier to get to the neighbouring country; the traffic jams at the borders then belong to the past. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] A key side-by-side aspect – to mention that – is that many executive officials and executives can then be used in the agglomerations. There will therefore be even more security in Austria. – I am already looking forward to the implementation of these projects at the end of 2007!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e11767	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. Also 5 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e11788	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm not surprised that you're so excited about my friend Heinz Christian Strache's speech, but I can calm you down: We liberals have already been in favour of European agreement in this House, when your political groups were all against it. We have only made the development of recent years skeptical. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Liberal Group, I agree to make the following request. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, after your remarks, I would like to give you an advice: You should be a Commissioner. Unfortunately, God will no longer be able to send every country a commissioner from 2014 onwards, because you seem to have been preparing for this directorate. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Mr Bundeskanzler, I could not at all determine what you have done at Brussels level, which interests you really want to impose there on the part of Austria. That was not to be heard and not to be seen. That's why, mine. Ladies and gentlemen, we liberals are also so anxious that this new Constitutional Treaty will be subject to a referendum. And if you, Mrs Foreign Minister, refer to the decision of the 2005 National Council and feel that this decision is a mandate, I must tell you: This task has been abandoned because this Constitutional Treaty draft failed and we are in a new ratification process! This also clearly contains the conclusions of this Intergovernmental Conference. It is now starting a new Intergovernmental Conference with a new ratification process, and, ladies and gentlemen from the Federal Government, we liberals expect you to represent Austrian interests in this ratification process! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They make themselves here, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and pretend it would have been so nice to enter into these compromises, and as if it had been so wonderful to finish here and to do away with them. I may be an independent journalist – not an “evil” liberal, but an independent journalist! – quote the magazine “Der Spiegel”: The compromise is so complicated – he writes about what you have decided – that he can understand it at all times. The new rules on voting division will enter into force in 2014, but the old one will be valid until 2017. Fundamental rights apply to all Europeans, but not to British courts. The new Foreign Minister is supposed to be one, but must not be so. These are sentences that do not breathe the spirit of Europe, but, at least, the spirit of necessity. - Quote. And that's what you're defending here, Federal Chancellor! I can also remind you of your promises before the election. In two areas, Mr Bundeskanzler, you have taken a clear position before the SPÖ elections: First: They will support the failure of Turkey to join the European Union. . I see no action from your side at all that this should also be implemented at European level. You would have had the opportunity to put it into several councils you have participated in so far. Mr Gusenbauer, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, you have also been working to ensure that at least a European referendum on a new contractual situation is held. The fact that you cannot enforce this on your own is clear to me, but you would have the opportunity to get rid of this European crowd at the Austrian level by setting up a national referendum on this new Constitutional Treaty to which it will come. Mr Bundeskanzler, I ask you, on behalf of the National Council, to implement your promises, which you have made as SPÖ President-in-Office of the opposition, as head of government. This is very important for the National Council because the European Councils are the level in which national parliaments, in which the representatives of the peoples can participate effectively at European level too. But what you have brought to compromise is in no way more close to the citizen, nor in any way a more citizens' allocation, as you actually do. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for You, Mr Bundeskanzler and Mrs Foreign Minister, have not learned anything about it in European policy, so it seems. It is no longer a sense of reason – a house mind that would be essential to take people along the way in Europe. We liberals demand that you bring in the principle of closeness to citizens in the negotiations of the Intergovernmental Conference over the next few months and that we in Austria make a referendum on the new Treaty situation.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e11910	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bösch is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e11964	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Karl. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e11985	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! I would like to say to my previous speaker, Dr. Bösch, that his request for a referendum must be rejected that such a legal requirement is not necessary at all. It is simply a careful development of existing contracts. [[Abg. Strache: Mayer, Funk, Öhlinger – the three constitutional lawyers say it is necessary!]] But there are also many opinions that say that it is not necessary. Then I'll come to you, Mr. Strache. They are also wrong in another point. You are mistaken if you think that a victim of worker protection is taking place at EU level. [[Abg. You're afraid of the citizen, you're afraid of the Austrians!]] Look Go to the EU homepage once! Look Perhaps you should adopt a code on European labour law. They will find a whole series of worker protection directives that have also been implemented in Austria. I would like to mention the technical worker protection directives, the Working Time Directive, the Mother Protection Directive, Directives on the protection of part-time workers, of temporary workers. I would also like to object to your accusation of the social, political ice-colds: We have an operational transition directive, we have a posting directive, and we also have a directive on the coordination of social security systems, which is about the social security of workers when they are working across borders. – Only so much to protect workers at European level. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: With a policy you can never create social warmth!]] [[Abg. Strache: And that's exactly against Austrian workers' interests!]] – No, this is implemented in Austrian law and benefits Austrian workers! I would now like to refer to this reform Treaty. It has been criticized by my previous speakers many times in the UK. I have to say: This rejection of Britain, namely the rejection of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, does not surprise me. I should like to remind you that in the course of the negotiations on the Maastricht Treaty, Britain has prevented the inclusion of social policy rules into the EU Treaty. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The “evil” Britons!]] Because of the Vetos of the United Kingdom, only a protocol on social policy was adopted. Only later, in the Treaty of Amsterdam, have these social policy regulations been included in the Treaty. For example, the UK was also opposed to the Sends Directive and was supported by Portugal. [[Abg. Blow: Extremely smart!]] However, I would like to return to the present summit. – I don’t think that’s “extremely smart”. It would have been wiser to vote in favour of the Entrepreneurship Directive to protect workers. I take from it that you do not know what it is about in the Entrepreneurship Directive. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I would now like to return to the mandate for the Intergovernmental Conference which has already been given. It is clear that the existing Treaties are amended by a reform treaty. What's new about that? For example, it is new that a protocol is annexed to the Treaties, which lays down the principles of interpretation of the definitions of services of general interest. In this context, however, the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice plays an important role. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Now comes the social warmth!]] The European Court of Justice also has a lot to do with social warmth, I can tell you because the European Court of Justice has made a great deal of progress in the field of European labour law and social law. It is not all bad that comes from the EU and the European Court of Justice! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As far as the European Court of Justice is concerned, however, I would also like to mention a line of jurisdiction which, as I believe, we must keep in mind, because it is very important for the Member States. Let me illustrate this by the following example: While the European Court of Justice recognises that the competence to design social security systems lies with the Member States. At the same time, however, it emphasises the need for Member States to take into account European law, in particular competition law and fundamental freedoms. In other words, the European Court of Justice is involved in the competences of the Member States on the application of European economic law. We should take this Judicature into account if we want to develop a little further at EU level. Finally, however, it is also planned that the accession of the Union to the European Convention on Human Rights will be decided unanimously by the Council. As a former member of the European Committee of Social Rights, I would like to say that the European Union should also join the European Social Charter, while I am thinking of the revised European Social Charter.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e12120	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e12141	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! One thing is positive about the The results of this EU summit: that something has gone further after a multi-year period of reflection, after the “shock” – under quotation – of negative referendums that have just shown that one cannot make European policy across the heads of the population, but that one must try to be credible for the interests of the people of Europe and thus also to create a vision and a future perspective for this common Europe – not an EU of bureaucrats and laws and regulations, but a European Union in which people can really see the benefits of this common Europe. It is necessary to reform the arrangements, especially in the European Union, because the EU of 27 cannot be further organised by the methods of the EU of 15. However, I believe that there has been an opportunity, and this is not surprising, because there are few politicians in this European Union today, as well as few people who think beyond the edge of the plate and their own term of office. That is what we have seen in Turkey. Instead of dealing openly and honestly with some problem with Turkey, we say: No, this is not the case, it is not the right thing to enter into the negotiations, we prefer to negotiate other arrangements for cooperation, to postpone this decision for ten or 15 years, namely at the end of the negotiations, where then all the people today are no longer in office. That's the same thing here. You could've thought about it. How can this European Union work differently in the future? Which modern standards can be applied here? How do you manage to bring different countries with completely different circumstances – Germany, France, Austria on the one hand, Romania, Bulgaria on the other – into one hat, so that this can really work? One cannot treat inequalities in the same way and believe that this can work and that the population agrees with it. The BZÖ has made the effort to keep thinking. Others in the European Union have also thought about making a multi-layered construction out of this European Union. In this sense, we have also prepared a motion for a resolution which I now want to put in place and explain in its core points. In the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Scheibner, We say that Westenthaler and colleagues on the future of the European Union should be a core Europe, a core Europe of sophisticated countries in Europe, which decide for themselves by means of referendums that they also want to accept for themselves the full volume, the entire spectrum of European integration – currency, economy, security policy, environmental policy – that have the obligations, but also the benefits of it. A second area is those countries that want to use only parts of it, modules, for themselves. – Less obligations, but less rights. Not as it is now, for example, that we as net payers take on all obligations, unlike others, but also only have the same rights as those who pay less. In the extreme field, a partnership should be established for Europe for all those countries, such as Turkey, which, for various reasons, cannot or do not want to become full members. This would, I believe, be an opportunity where one could respond flexibly to the different situations of the various Member States and, here, it would be useful to address direct democratic elements. Now we have the problem with the national referendums that, if a small country, such as Malta or Luxembourg, rejects a template with a few thousand votes, which, however, is positive for everyone else – perhaps 200 million – in Europe, it has failed. That's not really useful either. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Austria is also a small country!]] Yes, we are also a small country, but you, for example, want to leave the European Union. The EU Constitution, which failed in two referenda, has for the first time been able to resign. That is to say, just as Mr Bösch, who has been negotiating, should actually take out the positive things, not only no, but also say about how things could be done better if something was criticized. [[OBJECTIVES]] [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] Finally, an interesting point for SPÖ and Mr Cap, who said yesterday that international security policy was bad. But I am surprised that Chancellor Gusenbauer then agreed to a result in the Council, where it says: Mr Gusenbauer has now decided on the European Union's objective of establishing a common defence.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e12208	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Scheibner is sufficiently supported, has been explained in the key points, is distributed and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e12306	I set the speaking time for the last round with 3 minutes. First speaker is Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e12330	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The European Union has recognised the signs of time and has rightly put climate change at the centre of its tasks. The EU Summit defined very ambitious objectives in March, but what has not been done is to clarify how this should be achieved and implemented. And these are the next major challenges that await the European Union and its Member States. It is precisely at this point that we are standing, and it is now up to us to move forward boldly, modernly and innovatively. Since today the image of sailing was mentioned by the woman minister: I fear that climate protection can happen, that Europe will develop into a rather inflexible, heavy, slow tanker that will be able to access the cliffs, instead of being a modern, turning, fleeting sailing ship that takes a clear course in climate protection. It is precisely there that there is a need for action and it is important to pursue a clear course in climate protection. Climate protection is, of course, an environmental challenge, but it is a central economic and social challenge, and, last but not least, it is also an issue of international solidarity which can be solved and realized here. According to my information, discussions have also been held in the context of the June summit on the national plans for climate protection, but, unfortunately, they have not been very targeted. The EU faces very major challenges. The Minister for Energy has already addressed the issue of security of supply in the energy sector today. We need an energy market that is clearly based on cost-effectiveness. Therefore: End with subsidies for electricity from coal and atom! I reached the next point and said: We need a Europe-wide nuclear exodus to continue in the energy transition in order to increase energy efficiency, to drive the use of renewable energy forms. And there is, of course, the challenge of launching a clear reform process for the EURATOM Treaty. EURATOM must end! Of course, a climate-friendly transport policy is urgently needed. Then: Where we stand now, that's far too little! Finally, the task of all countries to move forward in climate change is to make joint efforts. Of course, Europe has the opportunity to become a leader in climate protection. But it is now up to Austria to take and move forward the next innovative, courageous steps.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e12379	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Arbitrator. Also 3 minutes speaking time. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e12400	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! Mr. Minister! It was a pretty bad starting point at this summit. On the one hand, the population of Europe was very large – rightly – because there are many expectations for the European Union, which has not been sufficiently met. For example, in the questions: How can the social system be secured? How can growth and employment be promoted? How can climate change be effectively addressed, how can it be effectively combated? How to react to international crises and threats? How can globalisation be made positive? . All these are questions that are expected from the European Union and have not yet received sufficient answers, which is also a reason for the scepticism to grow within Europe. On the other hand, it also seemed that in Europe the internal contradictions between the states and the Heads of Government were sometimes greater than the insight into the need to find answers together. However, Europe – and I am convinced that – can only meet this scepticism together, and it can only be met if there is a better, a more social, a more democratic, a more efficient Europe. Not less Europe is the answer, but a better Europe is the answer! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The Constitutional Treaty would have brought Europe a big step forward. The result today, I believe, is an acceptable progress with compromises, which in part disappointed us, but basically good and right, including the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which lays down not only the classical fundamental and human rights obligations, but also social rights. The social dimension, the clear commitment to the protection of public services, the commitment to climate protection and also the first mention of this issue, more democracy, strengthening the European Parliament, majority voting and a foreign minister, who is not so called, but will be so called everywhere and can act as such, are further positive points. I think that the UK has chosen the opt-out for fundamental rights because it is a scandal to British citizens. However, I also believe that the Greens' request is too far-reaching because it would ultimately lead us to disagree with the Amendment Treaty. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: But in the country day the SPÖ agreed!]] Our aim is to continue to work towards the European Union becoming a community of values instead of a supermarket. I think it is a matter of producing the European Union's ability to act. It was necessary to make compromises – these compromises were concluded. I am also grateful for the significant involvement of our Federal Chancellor. There is also the opportunity for Europe to respond significantly to global challenges, such as climate change.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e12448	The next speaker is Mrs Rosenkranz. Also 3 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e12469	Mr President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor briefly described the failure of the Constitution, the referendums in the Netherlands and France, and then referred to the question he raised: How can you get a maximum of this contract? – That's where we're completely different! After the failure of a template at a referendum, only the question can be asked: What course correction do we make? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the other hand, you have considered the strategy you will choose to come to your destination despite the rejection of the peoples. You then also described this a little: The symbols must be gone, the contents must remain – flag, anthem fall. The Foreign Minister said it more clearly: 95 percent of the content remained. But we are now on the way to the new sobriety, we no longer call things state, foreign minister, constitution, law, everything does not come that way. – I wonder: What is called a person who does not name what he does correctly, but tries to hide it? I'm not going to negotiate a call for order, but I'm saying, This is one who deceives another! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What? They present here, in our eyes, is not a rescue attempt, but a deception maneuver, and that is why we reject it. On the content, also in the context of this deception maneuver: the priority of EU law – it is recommended to do with the EU to read the small print. The conclusions are as follows: “Although the article on the priority of Union law will not be “recaptured” in the EU Treaty, the Intergovernmental Conference “will agree on the following declaration: ‘The Conference notes that under the conditions laid down in this case-law, the Treaties and the law laid down by the Union on the basis of the Treaties shall take precedence over the law of the Member States, in accordance with the constant case-law of the Court of Justice of the EU.’ Quite clear: We no longer have the issue of action in our hands. For us this is, even if it is no longer “constitution” to act the end of self-determination and the possibility of Austria. It is a demise – and we also reject it! The Charter of Fundamental Rights, which you referred to as the heartpiece: How did that come about? How was that? – The EU had achieved a wealth of power that made it necessary to put in place an act of self-binding. Seven years ago, the Commission on Fundamental Rights was set up, which was to restrict itself in its power. In the meantime, it has become the opposite, it has become an instrument for centralizing and arrogating power from it – that is not what I claim, but the chairman of the Fundamental Rights Commission said on 18 June. June in the “world. ” Roman Herzog said there: If this fundamental right treaty enters into force in this way, the political pressure to create EU regulations will become overpowered. - Quote. Example labour market: If we want to protect the domestic labour market, and if an EU citizen complains that he has not been admitted to our labour market for reasons of discrimination, and gives the Court of Justice the right, then every national law will be removed. That's no one. More freedom, but a massive restriction of our freedom. You haven't brought anything good home from Brussels!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e12536	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. Also 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e12558	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! If you listen to this debate, you get the feeling that on the one hand there is an enormous expectation and on the other hand there is a limitless criticism, with the better proposals missing. Just to say what is not all right, and not to say how it should or should be done better, is not the true parliamentaryism either. Secondly, Anyone who knows the history of Europe knows that Europe has been overlaid for decades, even centuries, by discord and war. We now have this unique opportunity and can gladly find that we have peace for 62 years in a large part of Europe, including in our country. These are values you need to talk about. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This morning, Mr Molterer, Vice-Chancellor, gave a very impressive report on employment and the development of the economy. Faith You really believe that this development would be possible, would we be alone and lonely? – Never! [[Abg. Strache: Look into Switzerland!]] We are participating in this European process, and that is something positive that we should also say. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: In Switzerland it is possible! Positive example Switzerland! Switzerland is neutral, and the economy is booming!]] Of course, you don't have to like everything. If the Constitutional Treaty has now been further developed and Angela Merkel has made it possible, which was actually started under the chairmanship of Austria last year, I am very pleased. What I do not like is the special role of the United Kingdom, which cannot continue in the long term, that cannot be the Europe of the future. What I don't like about it is the displacement of the symbols. This has nothing to do with looking at things overemotional, but deliberately removing symbols, that is something I miss and where I believe we will get a certain deficit in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you are talking about Europe and think that some people are not understood, I say: We need clarity and credibility, that creates trust! Last year, in a very difficult situation, we loosened, negotiated and put into effect the 2007 to 2013 financial framework. This means not only that the rural area has its money, but also that we can build traffic routes, that we actually have a positive development, in which also Brussels, the Union, money in our economy, and we, as a whole, I believe, are doing a very positive process. I hope that the conditions of access for new Member States will be critically questioned, because getting bigger is also a case-by-case right, but before that you have to find yourself in an appropriate strength and identity. I mean, a critical assessment is allowed, but an ongoing conviction makes no sense. A greater contribution to the citizen will be the prerequisite. Euro-pa must be there to ensure that we continue to have prosperity, peace and good development in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e12625	The next speaker is Mr Bucher. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e12647	Mr President. Values Representatives of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In one point, I would like to give my previous speaker the following: As far as economic policy considerations are concerned, Europe is crucial and important to us, especially for peace-making considerations. [[Abg. Newborn: Peace policy considerations!]] Austria urgently needs Europe in the context of economic and financial development. Especially because of the development of the BRIC countries, it is crucial that we act as a European economic power vis-à-vis competitors in the world. But one thing is even more crucial, namely the willingness to take the misunderstanding of the people, of the citizens more seriously. That is exactly the critical point at which we start, because when we discuss with citizens at the innkeepers or on the streets, concerns and fears are always being addressed, but here in the discussions we always act as if everything were vain and everything would work wonderful. That's not the case! [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] The citizens are not involved in the joint development in Europe, but feel left alone, they feel betrayed over a wide range of routes – just as we hear this in the discussions with the citizens. That is why it is also so important that we deal with the arguments in a matter of fact and take these arguments seriously, which the people are referring to us. One such objective argument they put forward is that in the European Union we are always dealing only with things that do not serve the population. We should focus more on the fight against fraud, climate change and on framework legislation in the European area, and be less concerned with things like European budgets – we are sending a lot of financial resources to Brussels, where money is being sent back relatively little. These are things that are very annoyed by the citizens and for which they do not understand. One point, of course, is that the EU is increasingly interfering in the framework legislation of national laws – things where it cannot move at all. Such a point is, for example, the hygiene regulation, which is implemented very strongly and very prominently in Austria. I hope you all will now travel on vacation – I would like everyone to go on vacation in Austria – one or another will go to Portugal or Spain and see that the meat still hangs in the sun with the carnivores. Would you believe that such a thing is still possible in Austria, where farmers and many others in the food sector have forbidden the slaughter, where no one is allowed to make any more sausages? In Spain and Portugal, everywhere, this framework legislation applies to the EU, but no one really respects it! In this context, our citizens rightly call for laws that we make and decide in Europe to be taken and executed equally seriously by all Member States. That is what the citizens of Europe, ladies and gentlemen, are missing, and this should be a warning for us to improve in this way. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e12693	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 2 of the agenda in order to allow the urgent question to be dealt with at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:03:38]] Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Ing. Peter Westenthaler, colleagues in the Federal Chancellor on chronic internal and foreign political failure of the Federal Chancellor (1199/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e12724	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 1199/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e12990	I give the floor to Mr Deputies Ing. Westenthaler as the first questioner for the reasons of the request, which according to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e13011	Federal Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the well-occupied government bank! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: But not because of you!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday, when I turned up the “ZiB 2” in the middle of it, I believed for a moment that we had a new Federal Chancellor, Karl Schranz, who, unlike our Federal Chancellor, had not returned empty hands from Guatemala, but had been able to make a success for himself and his friends. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Rarely so laughing!]] But this is the Fortune, which our Federal Chancellor does not have in the foreign policy representation. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Your Fortune!]] It was already significant, Mr. Bundeskanzler Gusenbauer, how you have been jogged through the Central American jungle for a week now, then, and when you laughed in a camera and tried to let your charm play in order to get an Olympic application with the political stamp – if it goes, the SPÖ – still ashore. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Guatemala has not only jungle!]] I'm of the opinion that it didn't work. If you have observed your statement of initiation, you have to ask yourself what you have done, Chancellor Gusenbauer. What was that? ‘My name is Gusenbauer. Alfred Gusenbauer.’, ‘Money cannot buy’? – Don’t be angry with me, Dr. Gusenbauer, offset pieces from “James Bond” are beautiful and good, if you put this on film title, you have apparently moved out to get the “Licence for Olympia” home, but now came home as a dated “Octopussy”. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But I can calm you, Mr Gusenbauer: “The morning never dies,” you will surely get another chance. But that's right, the difference between James Bond and James Bond is also remarkable: James Bond is in each of his films at the end of the winner, while you have already entered the fat cap in foreign policy yesterday and in the last days as often as in foreign policy, but also the loser of the evening. Mr. Federal Chancellor Gusenbauer, you are not only the overthrower of the nation by breaking more than 40 election promises, you are not only a non-regulator of the nation, but you have been in a state with no burden, but you have been in a state like the nation's unhappiness since the last few days, which unfortunately is not a good luck bringer and the Olympics have also been forgiving. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The Olympics is the time between two Olympic games!]] Others have also contributed to this, such as the mayor of Salzburg, who is now so suffering, but with his management style as chairman of the supervisory board of the operating company, he has managed to drive one management after another, which must not be forgotten at this point. But it has been a series of embarrassing foreign appearances that have taken place in recent weeks. Let us remember that you addressed Mr Barroso with “Mr. Barolo” in order to perhaps drink a “glass Barroso” with him. Let us remember, I mentioned it earlier, the cuff button action at the level of the European Union. Let us also remember that you are also breaking your promises at EU level. In the election campaign, you have spoken in a word and explained to people that you do not support this Constitutional Conformity, that Constitutional Treaty of the European Union and are in this form against this Constitutional Treaty – now, after the election, you are the Saviour, the Angel of Mrs Merkel, who is committed to this Constitutional Treaty, which is detrimental to Austria. Let us remember your appearances in Poland when you drove to Poland to act there as a savior and get the Poles on board in the European Union: cold smiles, hand shakes, beautiful appearances – no result. Let us remember: On the day you went to the Czech Republic and occurred there, the next incident in Temelín was. To date, this monster power station, especially the Upper Austrians, threatens us, and you have not managed to inform the Czechs that this mammoth reactor must finally be turned off! This too cannot be accepted by foreign policy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I say: If you'd rather stay in the country more often, you might have done less damage. If you had stayed in the country now, you might have heard the arguments of the opposition more often in the last two days. By the way, Mr Gusenbauer, you remember that you said in the last election campaign: With a chancellor Gusenbauer, there will be no Eurofighters! – He said that five days before the election. – Federal Chancellor Gusenbauer, the APA has just received the following report: The first Eurofighter with Austrian high marks is already in the air. – Congratulations, Mr Gusenbauer, that was one of your constituencies that you did not keep; the most central next to the tuition fees. You can see that you don't take people seriously that you promise people something that you can't keep afterwards before the election, both inside and outside politics. When you come back, it is so that you not only have the damage, but also the mockery and the cock. Now let me talk to people. If you are printing the “Kronen Zeitung” today, you can read on page 26 where people write letters: Under the title “Still Return...”, for example, a Mr. Rumpler writes by e-mail: “With hopeful ante, our sandbox chancellor embarked on the journey to Guatemala... Moreover, before his departure, he gave his consent to the coalition partner – and against the will of his electorate – on all lines, too – “in good faith that he would receive on his return as a great hero and savior of the nation! However, it's more often different than you think... Now the return of the delegation will most likely take place in silence and the chancellor’s concern for some more!” Or: Mr. Heinrich Nowak from Steinabrückl writes: “Our chancellor certainly seems to touch only those things where he has to lose – predictablely –.” Another letter – I quote – is: You write in your article, Mr. Gusenbauer will put all his charm in the scales for the Salzburg application. At that moment, it was clear that we failed. No human can use what he does not own. - Quote. That's not what I'm saying! These are letters from the people I read to you to give you a mirror image. You can now be excited that people may see your poor Federal Chancellor wrong. But it's like this: If the people are disappearing as this Chancellor did before the election, and do not keep a single election promise and then travel around Europe, but do not bring anything together there, it is no longer taken seriously and is actually considered more ridiculous by the population. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It's not been that long since: I will keep my word! [[The speaker holds a copy of the cover page of a magazine.]] This was the last SPÖ brochure before the election: I will keep my word! – Gusenbauer didn't keep it at all. He broke one election promise after another! First of all, he began to burden the people. I already said it today: To increase the oil tax is indeed a shame, a shame because, due to your oil tax increase, we now have the highest prices of petrol in the history of the Republic of Austria, Mr Gusenbauer! We don't understand! Why are you doing this to the pendulums? Why do it? Are you talking to the drivers at a time when we still have tax revenue and where the economy is doing well where the economy is going well? Why do you burden people? Or yesterday: Health insurance contributions increased. Now all the others come along with increased contributions for the health insurance companies. Mr Gusenbauer, you have promised a health reform without any stress – and now you have increased the health insurance contributions! It's remarkable what you're doing. And that's how it goes: The fees will be increased. The charges will be increased. Mr Gusenbauer, you have all remained guilty in the social field. Wasn't it you who said it had to return to social warmth in the country? Social heat brand SPÖ and Gusenbauer? – Social heat brand Gusenbauer sounds, however, so that the care money is really reduced during this legislative period. That's the fact that you can't deny it, because you don't raise the care money, you don't valorize it – and therefore it will lose real value, and people will have less care money. This is a special, last-class attack on the poorest in this country, on the caregivers who need this money, and on their families. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] So your Minister of Social Affairs, Buchinger, comes and suddenly says that we are now introducing an asset line. From € 5 000 people in the country are suddenly able, everyone, including young people. I mentioned the example yesterday, when you were still sitting on the plane, of the 23-year-old hard-moving wheelchair driver who wrote to us: How am I going to get this government to kill me? Because it can't have more than €5,000 all its life. What vision of the future does such a person have, even at the wheelchair, if he does not have the opportunity to get the social benefits? In addition, it is also anti-performance if you cut down on people in the country who do something that builds up, who work, social benefits they need. That's not what we're going to do. Mr Gusenbauer, this is not the social warmth we mean! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Or: You've always said you want to fight poverty in the country. Do you know what the latest number we've heard? In Austria, 113 000 children live in poverty. That is why we ask you the question: What are you doing about it? What's going to be Do you make it possible to get under the arms of these children, the weakest member in society and then still in poverty? What's going to be Do you take any action with the young people where you have not yet taken any action? [[Abg. Eder: Who was the Minister of Social Affairs?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] The only thing you did right after the formation of the government was that you loosened the cancellation protection for the apprentices that the apprentices would be easier to cancel in the future. This is a ‘total’ measure: The apprentices who do not have it at all should be able to quit more easily. Apprenticeship protection and the promises you made for the apprentices have long been forgotten. Or: Where are your big throws on the pension question? Where's that? Where's your pension reform? We implemented a pension reform in 2000. [[Abg. Eder: The balance sheet of the last seven years is that!]] Where's all this? They say again and again that there is no one in this country who has less than the minimum pension. Dr. Gusenbauer! That's wrong! There are still 50,000 mothers in the country, over 65 years of age and after the war, who have no pension rights at all because they have not had work because they have raised children and therefore have no claim. That is why, in Carinthia, we have introduced and disbursed mothers' money for these disadvantaged women with the head of state, Haider, so that they can at least get something at all, also as recognition for this time. – You haven't thought of anything about it yet. They abandon these women, these around 50,000, and deny that they exist at all. We also reject this, because this is not social justice, if I simply abandon those women who belong to the building generation and have actually done something. Mr Gusenbauer! We also reject that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Because I also see the Minister of Justice sitting on the government bank, which I warmly welcome: The question of security is also an essential one! – Mr. Dr. Gusenbauer, nothing has happened at all! They look at how weekly, monthly, the crime increases. We currently have 70 crimes per day in Austria. We have 36 apartment breaks per day in Vienna alone. [[Abg. - How much? 36? That's where you're far off! We've got 20 house breaks per district! You're not even informed about the numbers!]] - And what are you doing? – You have a Minister of Justice from your ranks, who is the first model to present a detention relief programme! The Minister for Justice said: The prisons are full, now we release the prisoners! We'll release the prisoners! Premature detention, we convert prison sentences into fines. We make life easier for them. This is at a time when organized crime ingests into Austria, in a form that it has never existed: in an organized, through-styled form, in which these crimes are committed from the beginning to the end: Robbery, car theft, bank robbery, everything there is! There is the wrong signal to open the prisons and pay homage to your imagination of a prisonless society, but there is a need for severe punishments, more prisons. We have tabled the proposal that we also use barracks for this purpose. A signal that we punish criminals hard and do not feel an excuse, that is quite, very important, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But also as far as democracy is concerned: Mr Cap sits there and tells us constantly that there are more minority rights, and the Committee of Inquiry will be a minority right. - Nothing you've done so far! Zero, nothing at all! Except that for three months now you are restricting precisely these rights: No requests are possible. There are no meetings possible. It is not possible to have an interpolation right. By September, there is no way for the opposition to do something. We find that really interesting that you do. But this is also an expression of a government that exploits its full potential for power: Red and black, joined to divide this country into a red and a black half: 50 percent black, 50 percent red – and the “rest” the Austrians may have. This is currently seen across the bank: At the ASFINAG, interesting, is the red of the chairman, the black is a representative, at the ÖBB it is the reverse. [[Abg. Parnigoni: The Lord Reichhold! What does the Lord Reichhold do?]] With the ÖBB – and we would like to know this too – the Federal Chancellor; the Minister of Infrastructure is sitting on the government bank – the board of directors is bloated. There are different numbers: If there are four, will there be eight, will there be twelve, will there be more? We'd like to know how much it will be. Because your famous Grand Coalitionary bill, the division by two, always has to work: not three, not seven, all of it is not, but always divisible by two, because there must always be the same number of reds and the same number of blacks. They split up the country. But I say quite openly to you, people are now increasingly aware of this. Because it's just the government red-black, but not the country, that's not red-black, and it'll defend itself against your post-chacher you're running! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] A particularly delicate story – and I expect to be informed today, Mr. Bundeskanzler Gusenbauer – is your access to the media landscape. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] Especially your party and many others – including the Greens, for example, because you are yelling down just so funny – were the ones who have always been brutally critical of such examples from abroad: Berlusconi gets the media. Putin has everything in his hand that is reported there. That's really brutal. But if in Austria a German chancellor increasingly sends his confidants to the media landscape, starting from the ORF until – and that is now the actual story – the “Wiener Zeitung”. This is a very interesting chapter: The current head of the Supervisory Board is just being sent away, and it's coming – do you know who's coming? – the brother of the press speaker of the Federal Chancellor: Mr. Pöttler. He now sits there and looks at the fact that everything is going well, because there is still an independent editor named Dr. Unterberger, who then and when allows himself to practice criticism of you in the “Wiener Zeitung” – and now serve it quietly. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] First, the Supervisory Board is changed, then the Federal Press Service is brought there. And your next move – and I guarantee you, we will look at it very carefully – will be obvious to replace the editor-in-chief. This your grip on the media landscape here in Austria is already very worrying. Leave your fingers and release the “Wiener Zeitung” into an independent report! Guarantee media freedom here too! Mr. Gusenbauer, we expect this from you – and not an access to the Austrian media! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But also on the tax question, Mr Gusenbauer, you have promised everything. Let us remember: For everyone there will be 500 € for a tax reform at the choice, even immediately after the election, Gusenbauer has directed us. There's nothing left to hear about that. Some dubious announcements for the year 2010 have been made. There is probably no longer any government, because you have already blown each other into the air and have long called for new elections – should be. But that's not fair. It is not fair, in times like these, where we have good tax revenue, not to deliver this promise. 3 to 5 billion € we will have in surplus incomes that are not budgeted at all, because everything is just sputtering because the economy is starting and because the economy is so good. The companies make profits of 30, 40, 50 percent. The ATX has a plus of 8 billion from last year. - And what are you doing? – They take this and do not make a single relief for people: no relief, no measure to stimulate purchasing power in this country, nothing for workers, no wage tax reduction, which would be necessary because revenue from it increased from 18 to 20 billion. [[Abg. Strache: Do you really forget the ÖVP completely? Do we have a single government? Or are you now the ÖVP Apostle?]] We demand that Austrian workers be allowed to participate in the success and that, at last, taxes for the hard-working people in that country be reduced! That's our expectation we have. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: He still feels as part of the ÖVP.]] You can take an example, Chancellor Gusenbauer, if you compare objectively: What happened in Parliament during the first half of your term of office in the first half of the year, and what did the government of Schüssel/Riess-Passer decide in 2000 to do? [[Call the SPÖ:58 charge increases!]] I'll tell you that because you probably already forgot: We have introduced the child allowance that you are now suddenly criticizing. We have implemented a pension scheme. We have decided on the millions of disabled people. Who laughs when I say, disabled billions? Only so that we know, the great social politicians. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Soup casserole!]] We have power market liberalisation, we have new media laws, we have decided the private TV back then, even a long time ago. We have spent the reconciliation fund in the first half of the year – not to mention! – and equality between workers and employees. These are good achievements, on which this government has built up, and therefore we look back with pride, because the first half of the year was a success story. And you? – You put your hands in the lap, you just fight, you run post chess and loads, and you haven’t done anything else! That is the difference between the government of today and that of the year 2000! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Gusenbauer, last point: I expect you to comment on the minimum wage question. 92 € for full-time work; the difference between the minimum guarantee, net 726 €, and the net minimum wage, 818 €, is whole 92 €. We think this is very unfair that you announce that in the country full-time work is worth only more than €92 in the future. This is unfair to those who have to work and watch 40 hours and more a week, like those who have the minimum security and have no work at all, just get €92 less. Then they might suffocate a little bit and get even more than someone who works hard. [[Abg. May. Worm: You have watched people become poorer and poorer!]] I'll tell you: We from the BZÖ will constantly criticize that you Your promises do not keep that you make a policy of social cold and not social warmth, that you let down the workers massively and, above all, the people who do something in this country. For whoever does something, it has also deserved to earn something, more than this government gives him. That is why we are very excited about answering our urgent request today, even if it may be very early for you now, because you are still living after the Guatemala period. We believe that you have failed already in the first half of the year due to your politicians' and your government's zank and zauders, and it would be good for the country if we were to go in new elections.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e13368	To answer the urgent question, the Federal Chancellor has spoken. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e13389	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank Mr Ing very much. Westenthaler for this urgent request. But even after this 20-minute Suada, I did not realize what the urgency should be, but at least it gives me the opportunity to point out where the differences lie between the work of the Federal Government and the attitudes of Mr Westenthaler and his party. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Because people are not well!]] Its objective is clearly to make things worse in Austria, which is being developed in solutions for the people of our country. I will then also address in detail what the Austrian Federal Government has done in the first six months of this year, and much of this has been decided in Parliament too. We are of the opinion that it is right, in times of very good economic development, which fortunately brings more than 3% economic growth, which causes unemployment in Austria to decline dramatically, to ensure more social fairness, and we have already demonstrated this with a number of laws here in the Austrian Parliament. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, before we go into the details, still to the introductory polemic of Mr. Ingenieur: If you criticize Salzburg's application for the Olympic Games, you will not first and foremost meet me, but the many employees who have really been very committed to this application with full force. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You forgot this story!]] I have to say that it was a pleasure to work with these people who did extraordinary things – not only the political leaders in Salzburg, from the head of state, the deputy head of state to the representatives of the city of Salzburg, but above all also the athletes who have been in the lead with Franz Klammer and, I think, presented a very, very good image from Austria. If you think that in the last few days Austria and Salzburg alone have been mentioned 30,000 times in the international media, almost exclusively positive, then, I think, this was an extremely good advertising for Austria. And always, even in the future, when individual cities or federal states set up initiatives such as this application, this Austrian Federal Government will support this, because we stand for the positive initiative of the people in our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, the same applies, of course, to your inaccurate accusations as regards the really constructive contributions made by Austria in the European Union. The truth is that at the beginning of this year we decided with a very strong Austrian manuscript on the European Union's climate protection strategy and that Austria has made a significant contribution to the speeding up of the European car in the matter of the Constitutional Treaty. You can of course polemize about everything, but you already ask yourself the question: Did you even know when you agreed to the European Constitutional Treaty at the time, what you agreed to? If you listen to your remarks today, you have to say: Either you have never read the contract or you have never understood it – or you represent today the exact opposite of what you have recently represented. That would not be a responsible policy. Fortunately, however, you are in the opposition – and you should stay there the best. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The truth is that the institutional reforms are making the European Union's ability to act. And what is particularly important is that the decision of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, in particular through its legal commitment, naturally strengthens the social dimension of Europe. And I think that is very important, because if one sees Europe as an instrument to make globalisation more just and human, then in Europe one has to ensure that social warmth is not the subject of Sunday or Friday's speeches, but that it is also made legally binding, and that is what happens with the decision of this Charter of Fundamental Rights. I am very glad that in Europe, whether it is Christian-Democratic or social-democratic governments, there is a new consensus in the meantime that Europe's competitiveness must be complemented by a stronger social balance, in order to ensure that this European success model, which has rightly been pointed out today and which is exemplary for many parts of the world, will continue in the future. And Austria is making a contribution to this, and we could all be proud of it together, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As for the further attempts of yours to dissuade the development and state of our country, I would point out to you that only recently the new manual, the World Competitiveness Report, came out, which analyses the states in a number of questions and conducts rankings. And I think that it is also a good sign when it comes to the quality of life of Austria in this ranking, that Austria is on top of the issue of security, the security of persons and assets, on the one hand, that Austria, as regards the issue of sustainable development and environmental protection, is again on one side in this list and that also as regards the question of political stability – as the authors of this book may not have heard your Tirads – Austria is on one place. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP]] [[Abg. Strache: Then why does it always say that there is no money to carry out social projects? That's incredible!]] [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP]] [[Recent applause with SPÖ and ÖVP]] You can truly be proud of that. This is the work of all Austrians. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is no reason to dissuade Austria, even if we are still trying as much as Mr Engineer has done today. I therefore come to answer the various questions. On Question 1 concerning the Olympic application, I would like to point out once again that this gives me the opportunity to thank the great application team with Mayor Heinz Schatz, Head of State Burgstaller, ÖOC President Leo Wallner, Deputy Head of State Haslauer, Secretary of State Lopatka and Franz Klammer and all the employees. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That was not the question!]] I think they have made a good contribution to Austria. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] By the way, not only in the last few days, but in recent months, measures have been taken which, I believe, have improved our opportunities. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You have not even received the vote from all EU countries!]] It was particularly important that the anti-doping legislation was passed by the Austrian Parliament that we joined the UNESCO Anti-Doping Convention. I think it was also important for Austria's reputation in the international sports world that these measures were so uniform. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Answer the question!]] I would like to thank Parliament for its cooperation in this regard. I also believe that the appearance of the Austrian delegation has led to the optimum use of the outside opportunities that we have been granted. That in the end the decision was made rather on the question of investment imagination and that it obviously attracted €14 billion and also new sponsor contracts, that is on a different sheet. It is a decision that we must take note of, but I can tell you: I am proud of the Salzburg application. It has done good for Austria, and we have essentially left if you want to, as the Olympic venue of the hearts of Guatemala. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How many voices did you get?]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That was not the answer to our question! Question 1 not answered!]] On question 2 concerning two points in my part of the presentation of the Salzburg Olympic Project. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Question 2 not answered!]] I do not know how you normally imagine yourself, honourable Member, I use my name for that. And the second point. Of course, I do not want to deal with the foreign language knowledge of the questioners, but the quote is incomplete. It says: ‘Things money cannot buy’. Translated for you in German: You can't buy anything for money. This is an experience that you may still be doing. I wish you at least. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens as well as the Abg. Bitch.]] [[Abg. That's where I have to praise! That's where I have to clap! That's right!]] On questions 3 and 4, I would like to point out that the issue of climate protection is very important and that one of the biggest problems we have is, of course, the traffic, which, as I said today, accounts for 26 percent of the CO2 emissions. We have the problem that in Austria the spray prices are significantly lower than in Italy or Germany. This also leads to a very massive tank tourism, which brings tax revenue on the one hand, but on the other hand, of course, our entire eco-balance sheet is somewhat restricted and worsened. I believe that we must note that if climate protection is not just a matter of lip recognition, action must be taken, and it is unmistakable that since 1990, CO2 emissions in Austria have increased by 90 percent. On the one hand, always talking about the need to make climate change policy, on the other hand, but on the other hand not being willing to take measures that can contribute to climate protection, I think, is not an honest policy, Mr. Ingenieur. That is why I think it is quite essential that we give a clear signal, first of all, through the increase in mineral oil tax, that this tank tourism should no longer be profitable, that we should, on the second hand, urgently need the revenue that comes from this area, for example, to expand the rail infrastructure in our country. We invest more than €6 billion in rail infrastructure in this legislative period, and it is unheard of that both measures should be put in place if we want to achieve an ecologisation of transport. Of course, these are all measures that are independent of whether someone is an Austrian citizen or a transit through Austria, but we have increased the rate of the penalty by 10 per cent for the people who are particularly affected, and we have also introduced an equivalent for all those people who have so little income, so to speak, that they do not pay taxes, namely 90 €. This means that efforts have been made to link social fairness with the essential challenges of climate protection. I think this policy is a right one, and if you are honest, Mr Westenthaler, and not just making and polishing, then you should actually agree to such a policy, because it is socially and ecologically reasonable. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Well, not really!]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Really not!]] Question 5: As you know, there is a mentoring model in which there will be an individual care of students, who will be active support and support. The main aim of these sponsorships is to promote social skills and, above all, to take into account children from low-income families. Students participating in this model receive the study contribution back as recognition for their social commitment. Questions 6 and 7 are answered together: In contrast to you, the Federal Government has dealt with the care problems in Austria very quickly and as a priority. [[Abg. Rosary: Not at all!]] What has happened so far? – The promotion of the 24-hour care at home has been done since 1. ==References====External links== That's not what's been done up to now. Just so we know what we're talking about. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is an insult to the caregivers! That's a reluctance!]] Depending on the type of employment chosen, the promotion is up to € 800 or € 225 per month. At the same time, the labour and industrial conditions for the legal employment of caregivers were created at home. This is thought to be a first, rapid step towards correcting the problem of 24-hour care. Furthermore, the social security coverage of caregivers has been greatly improved. From the point of view of care level 5, the employees' contributions to pension insurance are now taken over as a whole, from the care level 4 to the half of the federal government. So far, there has been no such thing. Moreover, this means that caregivers are significantly improved by social security law than before and thus receive pension periods free of contributions. We consider this to be an act of solidarity in our society. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You should better increase the care money!]] For the keyword Dementia in the field of care: There is now financial support for caregivers from the support fund for replacement care for those affected. Caregivers now have at least the opportunity to take a holiday or to be represented in the event of illness. As regards the valorization of the care allowance, we have provided for this valorization in the government programme. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: When does she come?]] I would point out, Mr Westenthaler, that as long as you have been responsible, there has never been valorization. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's wrong! Again, an untruth that spreads you! They're even dwindling inside Parliament! That's wrong what you're saying here!]] At the asset limit of € 5 000 in the care at home – only so that people are no longer unsure by their targeted disinformation: This asset limit refers to cash assets and is at the ceiling of what the countries have regulated in terms of care in the homes. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: True untruth!]] Of course, no one is forced to sell his apartment or his house, only so that he will receive support – that may be your propaganda – but quite the opposite: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is the second time that he says the untruth of the government bank!]] With the measures we have put in place in the field of care, there is in addition to the care allowance, there is now also the promotion of care at home in addition to the state and local funding of nursing homes. In total, this is already a care package in Austria, which does not solve all the problems – we know – but there is hardly any other country in Europe where the issue of care is financially as secure as with us. And we are still not satisfied with it because we believe that we still have additional steps to take. But I think we're on a right path here. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In question 8, I would like to point out that if you are talking about over 113 000 children living in poverty, they have not been born in the last six months, but what you need to know is: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Today, wursters when this came about!]] What families do they live in? Most of them live precisely in those families who have the problem of being social assistance providers, people who often have no work, that is, in especially those families who will benefit from it if there is minimum social security in Austria. If you make yourself and polish on one side against the minimum protection, on the other hand, but press on the tear gland and say: What to do You are actually with 113 000 poor children?, I say quite openly: An answer to this is the legal minimum guarantee because it will improve the material situation of social weak people in Austria. And that's why it makes sense. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Moreover, I would like to point out that I am very glad that the Austrian Federal Government has a very good basis for cooperation with the social partners, because the social partners have also implemented many of the things we have agreed to in the government agreement in recent months. And if you vote against the minimum wage and act as if this were a deterioration, I would point out that the introduction of the minimum wage of €1 000 agreed upon by the social partners will mean a substantial progress for the people who have so far been below this €1,000. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 818 €!]] [[Abg. Steibl: And what about the liberals?]] [[Abg. Steibl: Everyone doesn't get it!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There are 818 €! They're dizzying again!]] That is why there is no need for any improvement to be made for people, Mr Westenthaler. It is an improvement for those concerned, not a deterioration. Your social policy, which you have shown today, offers only polemics and no solutions. Luckily we'll do it and not you. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I answer questions 9 and 10 together: You know that recipe fees have increased very much in recent years. This has led the new Federal Government to ask itself the question, how can one answer this fact that the prescription fees are very stressful for many people. And we agreed in the government agreement that there should be a ceiling, so that no one in Austria should spend more than 2% of his net monthly income for prescriptions or medications. This is socially just, because the more someone deserves, the bigger his contribution will be, but this will bring a huge relief, especially for chronically ill and elderly people. There are many people who currently pay as chronically ill more than 100 € per month for prescription fees because they need so many medications. And if, for example, one takes a woman with 900 € pension, it will not have to spend more than 18 € per month on medications in the future. That is, a savings of €82 per month will take place here. This is a very important contribution to the fact that, especially in old age, people are not asked about the question: Can I afford another medication or not? I regard this as a social policy milestone of this government, and I am glad that the Minister of Health and Social Affairs is on a very good path in the implementation of this issue. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the agreement of the social partners, it is true that the social partners have agreed on a balanced breakdown of the 0.15% social security contribution, which also brings a number of structural improvements and greater equal treatment than has been the case so far. They also agreed that savings in the health system will also be made where possible. I am actually very glad that the social partners are so constructively involved in solving the existing problems and addressing the challenges. I would like to thank the social partners very much for their contributions. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Questions 11 and 14 I answer together: My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, you know that a major tax reform is planned for 2010 in Austria, which therefore needs to be discussed and developed in 2009, and of course there are a number of word reports in which such a tax reform should go. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You've been selected for a long time!]] I am concerned that the tax structure in particular contributes to taking into account the standard of a modern, competitive country. I am talking about strengthening the social justice of our tax system, but also about ensuring the necessary balance between the different economic policy objectives for Austria's economic location. The tax structure in Austria is characterised by a number of special features which are often explained by economics. The main reason is that Austria has very high labour costs and that this is, of course, a point which represents a real challenge for the economic structure. On the other hand, in Austria the taxation of assets is extremely low. We are in fourth place in the OECD rankings, roughly equal to Mexico. While the share of capital taxes on gross domestic product is between 2.5% and 4% of gross domestic product in countries such as the United Kingdom or the USA or Switzerland, this proportion is only 0.5% in Austria. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's why you're going to raise this?]] No, you are not allowed to make short conclusions, otherwise you will end up like you always, Mr Westenthaler. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Polemik from the government bank!]] We have to deal with this challenge, that on the one hand, we are very high in competitive taxes and taxes, on the other hand, we are low in property taxes. And that will be the question we have to ask ourselves in the course of a tax reform if we want to keep the economic location attractive. It is also a question of reducing the burden on service providers – including medium- and lower-income service providers – in the context of a next tax reform. Above all, it's about people having more of what they do every day. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I have already referred to Question 12 and explained the difference between minimum wage and minimum security. In question 13, I would point out that there is a system of reference for all politicians in Austria, which corresponds to the legal basis decided here in the House. There are no individual adjustment factors, but only general ones. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Donations are allowed!]] That's why you have, Mr. Ing. Westenthaler, also receive a significant salary increase, as do all others. But I say quite frankly to you that you are free to take legal initiatives. You're welcome to do that. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We donate!]] Question 15: As regards the issue of increases in fees, there is no general increase in fees. There is no increase in fees that is higher than the inflation rate, i.e. it is only adjusted in value. These are the very normal valorizations, which also take place in another area. I am very grateful for the question 16 on the Carinthian issue. We have now held very intensive discussions with all the parties involved in Carinthia for several months – with the mayors, with the different political parties, with the social partners, with the representatives of the Slovenian organisations, with the representatives of the Carinthian Home Service and the defense fighters, across the entire political spectrum – and I believe that there is really a good basis for consensus, because both the German-speaking and Slovenian-speaking people have enough of this type of conflict. [[Abg. Street: Don't forget the SPÖ mayors!]] It is no wonder, therefore, that it has actually been a very broad consensus on this comprehensive package, which not only includes the local panels, but also a series of other measures to promote the co-existence of people in Carinthia. But I would like to tell you quite openly where the problem lies: There is a party in Carinthia, the BZÖ, at the head of the state captain Haider, who does not want a solution to this question, because he obviously wants to use the local board question as a political game ball and therefore makes politics on the back of the Carinthian population, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The strongest party! For information!]] [[Abg. Dolinschek: Would you have agreed last year!]] [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] [[Abg. Street: The SPÖ mayors are of different opinion!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... the Carinthian SPÖ is in resolution!]] I am also saying this in this clarity, because I have spoken to the head of state of Carinthia twice and have taken his objections into account. But in the end, no matter what the solution looks like, he cannot say 'yes' because he believes that it benefits him politically. [[Call the BZÖ: The SPÖ said no!]] Therefore, as long as he is head of state, he will try to torpedo any solution to this question. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You said no!]] [[further calls to the BZÖ]] I believe there will be a solution if there is a two-thirds majority in Parliament. I believe that the large majority of the Carinthian population today are ready to take a common solution and that people want to turn to new challenges again. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Of course! But not as arbitrary as you suggest!]] Those who so far hinder it – where they can make a contribution – are BZÖ and head of state Haider. [[Abg. Scheibner: A little loss of reality!]] This is also what it looks like when the BZÖ bears responsibility somewhere! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The strongest party in Carinthia!]] On the question 17 there is a simple answer: Yes. On the question 18: As you know, Mr. Engineer, maybe you don't know, there's... [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The first clear answer! There is a clear answer to question 17 for the first time!]] Very clear, crystal clear! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The first, however!]] I assume that it is also linguistically comprehensible to you, so it is so clear and dubiously formulated. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Everything else is Blabla!]] So, Mr. Ingenieur, on the question 18: I don't know how you deal with foreign government members. I can tell you that, fortunately, there is a very good relationship with many of our colleagues. For example, it will always be welcomed if Mrs Foreign Minister at the European Council brings together some of our colleagues the well-known Vienna candies. These are gestures that are always highly appreciated and, I find, the essential basis for that one can also have a reasonable conversation with people. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is the only thing you do in the club there!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: eat manner cuts... and drink Barolo!]] Because you may not believe it, Mr. Westenthaler: There are also people in Europe who are talking normally – even if this may not be possible for you. [[Rejoicing and condolences with the SPÖ, as well as with representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] It is true, and I can tell you that the German Foreign Minister, my friend Frank-Walter Steinmeier, has given me these EU cuff buttons, because the cuff buttons are intended for European Heads of Government in the course of the German Presidency. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You laughed like a hippo!]] But in the meantime I notice an improvement in your behavior: They obviously take a bond at Steinmeier and give me cuff buttons today. Thank you very much for this, Mr Klubobmann. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] By the way, since a urgent question should actually be a question of execution, I would like to point out the following to the question 18 of order: The Republic of Austria did not incur any costs. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] On question 19: We have already discussed this earlier in the discussion of the results of the European Council. You know that the Constitutional Treaty in the Austrian Parliament has been ratified by 182 votes. This is the basis on which the Austrian Federal Government is shaping its European and foreign policy. We have been concerned with keeping the core of this Treaty because we believe that it will bring the European Union closer to citizens and society. [[Abg. Strache: Without popular vote, this is illegal!]] [[Abg. Rosary: the citizens are supposed to judge this! Ask her!]] You always have to make a comparison. Professor Van der Bellen said in his speech today: At some point, the compromises are already too much for him. – I understand; but the comparison you have to make is: What so far – the Treaty of Nice – and what could be the case in the future? And there you have to ask yourself the question: Will what will apply in the future improve or worsen the situation? According to what has been foreseen in the mandate so far, I believe that this is a clear progress towards the Treaty of Nice; perhaps not as much as we would have wished it to be, or as it was foreseen in the Convention's original draft, but still an improvement in the situation so far. That is why, I believe, it is very important that we have contributed to the fact that there is now the mandate and then, of course, the Treaty, which will of course be here in Parliament for ratification. In addition, however, I would like to say the following: If you talk about Austria in Europe, you should not do as if this were just a burden all the time. The membership of Austria in the European Union is unheard of and also profitable for us! What benefits the Austrian economy and the Austrian workers is that there is peace and stability in a larger Europe today, that there are growth and investment opportunities as never before in the last decades, which is to a good extent also the result of European policy and the existence of the European Union. I therefore reject all discussions on the possible withdrawal of Austria from the European Union! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] In this context, it is also gratifying that on Tuesday next week Federal Minister Faymann will sign an important agreement with his Italian and German colleagues and the European Union to finance the Brenner Base Tunnel. This is a very, very essential project that cannot be considered loosely! Because – it has often been pointed out – this tunnel is calculated economically even if there is a change in transport policy, what we are working on intensively, and I believe that we are on a very, very good path through the initiatives we have set up in Europe. But it is a very important project to reduce the load that there is undoubtedly due to truck traffic, especially through transit traffic. On this concrete project, it is seen that Europe is not only of general benefit to Austria, but also that there are always concrete projects with which joint efforts are being made to solve problems. I would like to congratulate my Minister for Transport on the success of this step. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is a net payer in the European Union because we are the fourth richest country in the European Union. In the meantime, we have overtaken a country again; in front of us there are only Luxembourg, Ireland and the Netherlands – the Netherlands only very narrow –, Austria is already in fourth place. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why do we no longer have a say?]] That is, we are a rich country, and the commitments we have towards the European Union have been formulated in the negotiations on the future financial framework. As you know, this happened before my time. But, of course, next year, we will also look at the fact that Austria is expanding as well as possible in the revision of these financial negotiations. That's the goal of every government – who likes to pay more voluntarily? We must also be aware, however, that Europe is also successful because it is a project of solidarity and because, so to speak, the support of poorer Member States is not only a charitable matter, but also a result of a rise in general growth opportunities and investment opportunities in Europe. If you look at all European development, then the countries that are net payers have lost nothing by their position in Europe, but quite the contrary: The bigger Europe and the more one has done to help the poor, the better it was, especially for the richest Member States! Austria is a good example of this, and therefore there is no reason at all for us to change anything on this point in our policy. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] I answer questions 21 and 22 together: The “Wiener Zeitung”, the oldest daily newspaper in the world and the official institution of the Republic, is faced with difficult challenges not least because of a procedure before the ECJ. In order to master these, I have decided to occupy the Supervisory Board with experienced publishers who, together with the two remaining Supervisory Boards and the new editor, are to develop concepts for the future of the newspaper title “Wiener Zeitung” because we have to prepare ourselves for a situation that may be unpleasant if the European Court of Justice decides what many want and others expect. The two new Supervisory Boards, Dr. Bohmann and Christian Pöttler, have been successfully conducting newspaper and magazine publishing for years and have been selected for their know-how. Other reasons – in particular your nepotism – were not the basis of my decision. By the way, the two newly appointed Supervisory Boards will replace two press spokespersons of the former government on the Supervisory Board of the “Wiener Zeitung” – only so that we know the question of qualification and the proximity to the party. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: So it is!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Well, that's it!]] In contrast to this employment policy à la Westenthaler of the past, at the beginning of the government, SPÖ has already noted that employees of the political cabinet should not primarily sit in supervisory councils. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: So you admit it!]] This is also a fundamental agreement that we have reached in the government. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: So only in second line! Not primarily!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A very good formulation!]] In this sense, I therefore regard the appointment of the two new Supervisory Boards as an act of withdrawal of political influence. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Second line!]] Question 24: How many directors will the ÖBB have in the parent and subsidiaries in the future? – As you know, this is not part of my execution. As far as I am aware, there should be four in the holding company, two in the subsidiaries as before, three in the Rail Cargo as before, three in passenger traffic as before, two in Bau AG – formerly three, the third in charge will not be announced – and two in the company AG as before. On question 25: I accept that it is your job to criticise the work of my Federal Government constructively. What I cannot accept, however, is that you keep trying to misrepresent and misrepresent the work of individual members of the government, as well as the work of the entire federal government against better knowledge. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Your Minister!]] Therefore, Mr Ingenieur, I would perhaps like to give you a brief overview of the current account of the Austrian Federal Government in the first six months. It is something you should listen to every day, because this may lead to your form of political debate being a little bit shaky. We have spent the minimum wage together with the social partners. We have created improved labour market opportunities for people with disabilities. We have removed the poison teeth of the pension reform by means of the Social Rights Amendment Act. We have introduced a new basis for the fight against undeclared work by carrying out the social security application before the start of work. We have introduced a revision of the Working Time Act into Parliament, which represents a renewed and further modernisation. We have increased the pendler fee by 10 percent, bringing in the basics for the 24-hour care. There are massive savings in the Eurofighter purchase of € 400 million. We have contributed to economic growth in Austria, where Mr Bartenstein, the Minister of Economic Affairs, expects us to have an annual employment growth of 50,000 jobs and a very high rate of unemployment. We have made a reform of the opening law. There is an agreement on the agricultural market regulation, which also takes greater account of the interests of small farmers and consumers. There is an increase in the promotion of women in the public service. Funding for intervention agencies against violence in the family has been increased. There is a reorganisation of the flexibilisation of child benefit, which gives women more opportunities and opportunities. There is an improvement of the au pair regulations in Austria. The Federal Government was highly active, not only in the European context, but above all in the international conference on the Middle East, which was held by the Foreign Minister. We are well in the plan with the preparation of EURO 2008. There is an investment programme of 10.5 billion € for rail and road in this legislative period. The groundwork for the North motorway has already been set. The Council of Ministers has decided on a major electoral reform, which, among other things, reduces the electoral age to 16 years, introduces the election of letters and extends the legislative period. There is a company law amendment law by the Council of Ministers. We brought in a victim protection package. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Introduced!]] There are again more staff for the judiciary and the courts. We have drawn up a positive conclusion to the talks between the Federal Government and the Trade Union on the Civil Service Law Novelle. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Very good!]] We have developed and presented the climate protection projects, created the Climate Fund, and in a very active discussion with all parties involved the Federal Government's climate protection strategy is constantly being revised. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mineral oil tax increased!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Incredible!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Incredible how active the Federal Government is!]] There is a reduction in the number of students to 25, as promised. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where is it?]] There are a total of 1,500 new teachers, an increase in student support by 15 percent, the start of the educational universities. 95 000 places are available for the extension of daily care places by 40 percent from the school year 2007/2008. There is an increase in the film budget by 33 percent, a higher budget for contemporary art. There is a good development regarding medical access to higher education, an increase in study aid by 12 percent. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There is also a new State Operation!]] There is, as has already been pointed out, the model for the refunding of the study contributions. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The new State Operation is there!]] There are a number of legal measures also in the field of anti-doping and beyond. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! That was a short extract. But on occasion I would like to be ready to follow urgent questions, especially from the engineer, to the House here and to give you full information. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I am very pleased!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e14544	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker or speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The SPÖ flees the hall!]] Mr Scheibner has spoken. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is the SPÖ moving out of the hall now?]] 10 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e14589	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Mr Bundeskanzler, thank you for the offer to come back here! We'll be happy to make use of it. Because that's really... [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer: I like to believe that!]] Yes, you have given us today a lesson on how to implement all that has been done to the predecessors in this office, and how to deal with urgent questions here. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[OBJECTIVES]] Of course, it is your right – of course, you are also a political professional – that you answer questions as you would like, and read them as you like. But that's not the way you're going to be, because we're not here yesterday and not yesterday. [[Call the SPÖ: Well!]] – It’s true, I’ve been here in the House since 1990, that is, a little longer. But as you have answered Question 25 – that you say, you are pointing it back to Klubobmann Westenthaler’s evasion of the government and the evasion of ministers –: Mr. Bundeskanzler Gusenbauer, perhaps Mr. Westenthaler should have given you another pair of glasses and not cuff buttons. Because if you had read this question correctly, you would have seen that your own social minister was quoted here! ==References== June – not at the beginning, when he was still unsure, but now, a few days ago, on 30. June 2007 – said that this federal government is only more suffocating and that new elections cannot be rejected. Mr Bundeskanzler, you initially questioned the urgency of this urgent question. If, after a few months, a minister of your Federal Government in a key resort has this opinion about this federal government, that it is only going to go to it and that new elections would actually be useful, then I must say that a better argument for the urgency of such debates can no longer be put forward. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But, Mr Bundeskanzler, I must also thank you for the great praise you have expressed to the previous government. If you are right to point out that Austria has risen in the ranking, number one on quality of life, number four on the question of prosperity, fourth-richest country in Europe, then I say: Yes, thank you, Federal Chancellor. For this ranking, the 2006 economic data have been used. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And as you know, you were still in the opposition at the time, and together with Mr Cap, you have done exactly what you are blaming us now, that is to say, everything is bad. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Never!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] We don't make Austria bad. After what? – The security situation, the economic situation, the unemployment rate, what have you here... – Mr Cap has waken up, since we have already had a result here, because, as usual, I would like to discuss with you, of course. But that was exactly that. Everything is bad, but you can be late, but still, if you change the fronts or the seat, it's that the last seven years have been good for Austria, and you benefit from it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] - Good, wonderful, give it to you! What we don't want, my dear colleague, is for you to make these good deeds worse again, that you will bring it back in the way you did in the 1990s, ladies and gentlemen also from the SPÖ. [[Abg. Riepl: Why are you only seven more? I don't understand!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And if you pretend to forget your opposition policy now, I tell you, we will remind you. And if you have spoken about the town boards now, I have to say that as Wiener I also have quite differentiated access to this question. But if you have meant that the BZÖ, Carinthia or the head of state has been the one who has prevented or prevented a solution, then, I must say, you really have a short memory. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] That's it. You weren't there, but I assume that Mr Cap negotiated with you or on your behalf at the time. A year ago, we were sitting with the Slovenian representatives for weeks, even here in the High House in some bunker-like place, so that no one can interfere with the media there in any way. And we were very keen about an agreement, a permanent agreement on this painful question of the town board. A Slovenian representative has been for this, and the second one has always looked at Cap for help and your current chief of cabinets, which is perhaps the thanks for the one who spoke at the time and put the Slovenian representative in the mouth that this is all too little. We have really been very keen about an agreement, but we were not allowed to agree, because exactly what you are accusing us now seems to have voted for you, because the government of that time was not allowed to solve this important problem, because you believed that this would be an advantage for the government of Schüssel, Gorbach, for the head of state Haider, and because you also knew that it is difficult to enforce this in your communities in Carinthia. But it was you, Federal Chancellor Gusenbauer, who at that time prevented an agreement from reaching a consensus on this issue. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is an interesting one – aha, now the support has already become a little less – and yesterday in an important debate you left your Minister of Defense sitting there alone. [[Looking at the Intergovernmental Bank]] Now you have at least got more support on this one page. But it is also symbolic that no one has come from the other side, you can also see there, even the clubman not. This too is a sign of how the relationship in this government is. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] You have a coordination task. It would be up to you to improve the mood in the government that there is a bit of a break-up feeling that there is a reformer. But there's nothing that can be seen at all. We are always incompetent – and I believe that all the opposition parties are doing so – as they are dealing with each other. – Yes, you are also unscrupulous, that is true. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I have not even experienced this in the worst times of the government of Vranitzky and climate, that in a large coalition you are dealing with each other as you do now. You see, you don't want each other, and the results are corresponding. Mr. Bundeskanzler Gusenbauer, if you say: Tax reform, I say: Of course, in 2009 this will be discussed for 2010. Again: Have you not only forgotten your opposition policy, but also your claims in the election campaign? They promised an immediate tax reform, an immediate tax reduction – not in 2009, in which the government will probably no longer be available, but immediately. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 500 €!]] There has been nothing left, although it would have been useful, because our tax reduction programmes have also had the sense of being permanent in the direction of a simpler, just, fair tax system, such as we proposed the flat tax, in this direction and not every five years then... – Please? [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer: Is the flat tax coming back?]] What do you mean, come on? This would be a useful project you should assume that you have a simple tax system and that citizens can also spend as much of the money they generate themselves, so that purchasing power is strengthened that Austria's economic location is strengthened. [[OBJECTIVES]] But They just want to get in the pockets. For you, as with the care of everyone who has 5 000 € somewhere in the night box or on a savings book, is already a richer. We're not giving him anything. This is your strange thinking, which we also criticize here. We have already discussed the increase in mineral oil tax, that climate protection must also be taken up so that additional revenue can also be recorded here. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer: With climate protection you don't have much on the hat!]] I tell you, first of all, I rarely wear hats, Mr Gusenbauer, I do not know what you are doing. But this is just an excuse, because if you were really concerned about climate protection, you would have now used your office as Federal Chancellor at the European Council to really stand up for it. You can't get me out of the concept with your calls, Mr Gusenbauer. One should address the real problem of climate change – and it is not in Europe, it is in the United States and it is in Asia. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It would be a task for the European Union to take action against these dumping organisations, against this climate destruction in this area, against pollution once. You're doing something in the percentage/promille sector or in promille areas, ten-thousand areas, and you're taking the Austrian into your pocket, but you're not doing anything where you may be uncomfortable, but where you can really do something massive for climate change or against climate change, and that's just about these markets in Asia and the United States. But that's the case with you, that's the case. You just go the easier way, but where it would really be about showing political weight, you won't do anything. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer: You don't want a climate policy!]] I already want a climate policy, but a sensible climate policy. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Let us murmur him, one only notices that we are on the right track and that we have a German chancellor who cannot present big visions here, but who tries to disturb speakers in their speeches. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You will continue to do that. I just didn't have time now. In fact, it was the protection for our colleague Cap, because now I could no longer deal with him, with our “Kalifen”. Mr Bundeskanzler, it will not be the last time you have to speak and answer here. But it will no longer take too long, because the tax reform, as has been said, will no longer be experienced here, because there will already be another government in office.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e14822	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Cap. 7 minutes welcome. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e14854	I think that's kind of impressive. First of all, everyone in this House knows that the whole of the emergency is because today's morning's Question Time has been postponed from today to September and because instead of three hours we have dealt with the report of the Committee of Inquiry on the protection of the savers. We also had more time to deal with the Hypo Alpe Adria scandal. And this is clearly not what the colleague Westenthaler wanted, because this is a very unpleasant subject in BZÖ travels. And now there's the Revanche, and now we're sitting there and we've got the urgents. – This is only for the introduction. The second thing that's kind of bothering me is: Why is it only to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who else? - The head of the Federal Government!]] Either there is still the old curing, because you are still mentally in the coalition with the ÖVP. - Okay, you can be helpful. There are therapy sessions, you can meet, that can work up: Free yourself, talk out, let go, relax! That's what we can do. This is a possibility for the seven mandates. At my summer course, I can offer this as a supplementary course. So not only “opposition right”, but “How can I let go of government participation six months ago?” Or – that’s the way more sympathetic interpretation – you think the ÖVP doesn’t play such a big role in the government as it is often claimed by the media. I can befriend him. And if I am honest, then I think we should perhaps put the urgent ones ever more to the Federal Chancellor in the future, because he has presented in an excellent way what has actually been decided in the last six months. So you are informed, you can write a little bit, we can also mail it as you want, we can also provide it a little bit with pictures. So it's not a problem, we can handle the culinary – only so that you have joy and desire to really deal with these achievements of the last six months. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Kasperliade!]] Kasperliade is when I think of your motion for a resolution yesterday. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Cabaret!]] Not cabaret! You would like to have a cabaret, even for that it is not enough. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Make a cabaret, but that needs to be promoted, because there is no human being going in! That's like a story by Otto Schenk, where three dogs sit in the first row – and that's it. You know these anecdotes? Nevertheless, he had to continue to play because the contract was that way. So just so we're clear once. But I find the courage you have to produce after six months, for the second time, twice brave, and here to bring a summary of the last six months, where the BZÖ is actually responsible for... – directly from Knittelfeld, indirectly from the year 2000. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Already the second time you blame me for courage!]] I have to say that was the time when the Austrians could not even have gone on the street because the Minister of Finance had his hands in the Austrian's pocket of pants constantly and cluttered out the last euros. For the time being, the time of the loads, for the time of the highest tax and tax rate, for the period of stagnating wages, for the time when pensioners have been cleared out, has made a pension reduction reform. This is where you are after there has finally been a change of course in this government for six months now. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Federal Chancellor has praised us for this! Impressive Praise!]] The Federal Chancellor has impressively shown that a very different weight in this government really predominates that social matters play an important role. Growth, employment, declining unemployment rates – you can only dream of this! You'll yell at night in sleep after I've spoken there, and right! You're supposed to have the most restless sleep of your last months. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I want you to dream of me, Mr. Westenthal. I want you to dream of me! Then, I think, I have to take another extra course as part of my summer course, which I offered to the opposition: ‘Opposition correctly’. But I think the first quota gets the BZÖ, because this is still mentally to the government and at the same time in the opposition, and at all it is a huge mess. So if you're talking about a jungle, I have to say that's the personalised jungle that's gathered here. The best thing is when he addresses the tax reform. For years we went out and said: When is there finally a socially just tax reform? When are the small and medium-sized incomes finally relieved, the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs? Taste’s, Mei Herzerl, was the answer from you, very important. Of course, there has once been a tax reform, that was the corporate tax reform. The large corporations have benefited from this. Of course, the small and medium-sized have not had any of this. I could continue this endlessly: Worse rental rights, the ambulance fee, the x withdrawals of the Supreme Court when you have passed laws here because it was either sluggish or simply undemocratic. The main association of social security funds, high schooling law – that is without end. As we have come, pensions have already risen, only the compensatory allowance rate, even if there are no pensioners in the poverty zone. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at BZÖ and FPÖ]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: And the Eurofighter is coming too!]] With you in 2004: A million people were at the poverty line. Hardly are we here, growth, employment. Yeah, it's different, not just everything homemade, but it's different. We can be proud of it after six months. Only the Super-GAU of Knittelfeld will be left with you. Then: I'll take my hat and go, adieu! Or: Adieu, I'll take my hat. I don't know this chorus from the operetta so much anymore. – Didn't last long, you've been back. If you have the courage and say: Let's remember! I noticed the sentence. Mr Westenthaler said: Let's remember! – Thank you, we will always remember the time when you and your predecessors were in the government. And the Austrians also remembered. 4.1% have received you at the last National Council election. They remembered well. Seven ambassadors are still sitting. They remembered well. Until this lights stop flashing, one last. There was not even a year ago this local board compromise because Haider is “top jump” because he commissioned you to make further changes at the opening clause because the broad consensus was broken by it at the time because he made a press conference where he went to the Slovenians. He wants this topic, he needs the topic, he has nothing to say but this single issue theme, where he always runs around the area with a town panel under his arm. He hurts Carinthia, tourism, investors. But you don't think so far. You think very briefly, and I can see that again today with this urgent. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What is the SPÖ Carinthia doing?]] But still, I think it's a good opportunity for us to talk about government work here. So, please, much more urgent and best of all to the Federal Chancellor, for he can best answer them.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e15006	Mr Morak has now come to speak. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e15027	Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Madam President. Sepp Cap, Mr. Klubobmann, why don't I believe you a word? [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the BZÖ.]] So either I've heard this talk about you so often, that's what you always keep the other one, or you don't mean it very seriously. But I know it's the air outside today after all the investigation committees. Or, of course, it might also be that this is the answer, a happy answer to a happy request. That could be it, too. Both of them miss a certain degree of seriousness, I know. It is, of course, not true that, because the German Chancellor said we have skiing in the genes, or he is wearing the Salzburg Jankerl, which is why he has taken care of there. Everyone basically knew from the outset that we're going to lose the match against Sochi. But that's just on the verge. What I want to say is: Of course, this request raises a problem that, as I think, we should seriously discuss, even if the seriousness is already a little holiday today, namely, how is the opposition or opposition party – I look into your eyes for a long time – with the truth or with reality. [[The speaker looks at Abg. Dr. Cap On]] I believe that this is, of course, a matter which is a fundamental problem in the Republic: How do you operate opposition today? [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: They're in the government, they're not in opposition!]] -Yes, it's all right. How do you operate opposition in a mediated world today? How do you get attention? How do you get to the front page? Here, of course, is the match between seriality on the one hand and scandalization on the other. That means how I am rapidly weakening the subject matter. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Don't understand any more!]] Of course, in this context, every position will be a suspension, every grip will be a breach, the contracts will become scandalous contracts, the committees will not end, but will be strangled after eight months. I haven't seen so many worms in this Republic for a long time now as in the last two, three days. [[Abg. That's right, two thirds in the high house!]] Of course, there is not a talk of climate change, but the talk is about social cold, which breaks over us continuously. The authorities all mutate to meteorological authorities, we can remember all well, and every common operational accident is raised to the total disaster. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! In this mood, we do not demand 100 percent, not 200 percent, and not 300 percent – we demand 1,000 percent. I feel a little reminded of “The Producers”, this film – you remember – in which the stock certificates are sold by 2 700 percent. In the end, it is surprising that a success is at the doorstep. – Yes, it is no secret that the Federal Chancellor and SPÖ took place on the government bank after a fundamental seven-year opposition. On the scale on which the Federal Chancellor is now measured – this latte he has laid himself as opposition leader. I think the case is paradigmic enough, I would say for every opposition party in that country. The more glaring, the more painful the reflection becomes, and the higher we are on the tree, the further the way becomes, the way back. [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls for FPÖ and greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Clubobmann Cap! What remains beyond the excitement – your excitement, the excitement of the opposition, when you look at it soberly? The Federal Chancellor has mentioned a few “milestones” here – under quotation marks – of the last six months. I think that this is quite well read beyond the excitement. Of course, we can expand this balance by saying that there is a new opera director. Of course, we can also say that there is less money for the film, namely exactly 6 million, and that there is also a view of cultural policy, the content issue means what is meant by it. But of course I also say that there is a democratic package, there is an infrastructure package of €11 billion. There is a scholarship increase, minimum pensions and so on and so on, all that has been decided in this House in the last six months, I hope, even with your voice. Ladies and gentlemen, the teaching that we can or do not want to draw from it is that at some point any form of populism comes to reality. Populism we have, you in our hands, how we shape it. Populism is taxable, reality is a little less. In this sense: Let's get to work! Let's just do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e15112	The third President, Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek, is next spoken. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e15133	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies on the government bank! Appreciate High House! Mr Morak, I would like to thank you very much for this five-minute Schizo-Punk. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with greens and FPÖ.]] Otherwise, I cannot say what you have just presented here, artistically certainly very valuable. I didn't understand everything – but good. [[Lively cheerfulness at the ÖVP.]] I don't think I'm the only one. I think the colleagues from the ÖVP, your party colleagues, also had great difficulties. But it was nevertheless artistically valuable. I would like to try to make a significant contribution to this debate. I want to describe a little bit of my impressions of her course. Federal Chancellor! When you started answering the urgent question, which was rather a bit in the last plenary session controlled by a lack of attention of the BZÖ, I felt very moved back in times of requests that Wolfgang Schüssel, then Federal Chancellor, always gave. He has always started in the same way. He first thanked himself for the opportunity to talk about the great achievements of this federal government. - Point one. Point two was that he was waving with European statistics and just quoting from it, where we are once again number one. Point three was that he usually finished his debate with statements on unemployment, and this has always looked like this: If unemployment was just rising, then it was a bad economy, it was falling down, then it was the good policy. In these points you are not different from your predecessor. But what I would like to say to all of you is that an important principle in politics is that problems are recognised to be stopped by the coloring and these European statistics. We can't hear them all anymore. You will find statistics on all topics where Austria is good or somewhere bad. It's always the question of what you're measuring. I think we should be able to measure the problems and the solutions to the problem. The recognition of problems is a very important prerequisite in order to be able to solve them seriously. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A few comments on the current state of the coalition, which can be made after six months. From the style, many Austrians, as I mean, have a full nose right now, if I can say so armyily. The mutual haxl station, Wadlbeißen et cetera, the obvious disfavor, when a minister of another government proposes something, the open attacks, the interrupts – such a form of conflict within a coalition has, I believe, not been there for a long time. This is not acceptable to politics as a whole. Many people in Austria now see this and have their nose full of it. - That was the style. [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] As regards the content, we continue to have obvious serious problems to solve, they will be pushed to the long bank. I now take the care situation as an example. It has taken a very long time for the problem to be recognized. Then it took a very long time for one to talk about it to speak openly, and then very, very long, until one tried to find at least a solution in approaches. The uncertainty of those concerned has already been over a year. We have experienced countless fouls within the government coalition on care, permanent disputes that the media have filled. And the problem is still not a hundred percent solved. I believe that in these days many parents face closed childcare facilities and do not know how to care for their children in the summer. Here too, we had a month-long dispute between the Minister of Family and the Minister of Women, where it is somehow a question of whether to raise the need or not, whether to make 50,000 places or not. This is an innocuous argument on the back of parents who have to be in front of closed doors this week and somehow organize this – with perhaps two or three weeks of shared holiday time, but two months of closure of childcare facilities. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: This is country!]] I know you know that. We all know that, and especially the parents know that. But your responsibility now in the government is to find a solution seriously. You can't always go here as a SPÖ and say we want to – I can't hear that anymore – because we want the good anyway, only the ÖVP blocked. I also ask you to fight a little more if this is so important to you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Colleague Cap is a symbol of this slogan “I know, but I can’t do otherwise”. That's not to listen anymore! If this is really important to you, even the Eurofighter question, then you should have had to fight more about it. I would like to give you another example of the whole human rights situation. I can't hear it anymore. On every possible and impossible occasion, there will be a completely correct statement of the fact that the human rights package you agreed to at the time must be reformed. Every child must be worth a lot, every baby must be equal to that of cetera. But you don't fight for it! You just leave it to the left. You say, okay, we're in the government now, and the ÖVP is blocked. But that's not what your voters expected of you. They expect you to have your first backbone, second, this backbone also lasts over a certain period of time and does not kneel and then really fight for things that are supposed to be worth something to you. It's alleged! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'm staying on this issue now because I've already started it. Children's poverty was the topic – especially now also addressed to the FPÖ and the BZÖ. Yes, many of these children are children in families with migrants background – very many of these children. There is also a very big poverty problem in Austria. And if you say children are so important to you, then you should also make no difference whether the parents of a child who is wrapped here in Austria need to be nourished, sucked and so on, whether the child has a foreign mother or an Austrian mother. Every baby should be worth a lot to you! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It should be well equipped, with a good start into life. – That is still not the case. There are still different classes of children, baby classes, new-born classes in Austria. That's really unbearable. It is also unbearable that we in Austria have to try a high court so that an 80-year-old sick Turkish is not postponed. This is a witness of poverty! A woman who no longer has a family in Turkey is seriously ill and is in front of the deportation – this requires a high court in Austria! You should also think about it. This is not about major theoretical issues of European migration, but about the last remnants of humanity that this country urgently needs. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would also like to lose a few words in the direction of ÖVP. A subject has already been raised today. This is also symptomatic. We have also felt it in the committees for many months. The ÖVP is obviously trying to provide for people who have nothing to do but simply block solutions in many areas. In the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, we were faced with the problem of not discussing what was promised in the Government Convention, namely the development of minority rights and parliamentarianism, but the fact that it was all about giving the large political groups more speaking time and other specialities. There were proposals that the current hour should no longer be on the wheel, that each group should propose a topic, but that the ÖVP should be much more frequent than, for example, the BZÖ. – There are proposals like this, and you can't take that seriously. You can only interpret it in such a way that you really want to block that you have no interest in making something better, but that you simply want to block a status. This also includes the local panel question. How else can one explain this, a head of state like Jörg Haider, who has indeed presented himself as no reasonable partner in this question – and I say this very well – who has played crazy with the Constitutional Court of Katz and Mouse, who has such insanity as “treason to Carinthia” and “closed Slovenian settlement area” which shows no constructiveness in this question at all? They hide behind him as a constitutional legislator and say that without his consent we do nothing either. – Is that a reasonable position? Would you represent such a thing in the economy to hide behind a person who is simple in this question – I do not say now “not acceptable”, or else I get a call for order – obviously “not constructive” can behave because of his mental structure? – I described it a little bit now. But is this a reasonable course of action? - Certainly not! And that, although we have for over 50 years a state contract that has not been fulfilled, since at least 2001 VfGH knowledge that cannot be implemented. So that's certainly not an exemplary behavior. I hope that you will go a little bit into your government clature, which starts next week, and question this blockade policy once. This is no longer in the interest of the population. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, on the subject of environmental protection and sustainability, because that is one of the so-called statistics that you have brought, Federal Chancellor, that we are number one. I mean, you probably have a dimension of burden on the next legislative period, in a Eurofighter dimension, because we have not achieved the Kyoto target. Since I'm already with the Eurofighters. – This brain-washing, we have now supposedly saved €400 million, which reminds me of people who go shopping, buying things they don’t need at all, but they bought out, and then I’ve saved myself so much and so much money. – This is the logic behind your argumentation. And nothing will be invested with it, but it will only make it less debt. Where does the performance exist if on the other hand the exit could have been fought? So we're fighting again, and that's what I'm closing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e15229	The next item is Mr Vilimsky's speech. 8 minutes welcome. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e15250	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies on the government bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, a great praise to SPÖ, especially to Klubobmann Josef Cap, who today has defended the bad policy of SPÖ in an incredibly humorous way with an incredible political sales rhetoric. [[Abg. Bitch: Covered!]] I must say that was almost as humorous and almost as funny as the Bond-Sager of our Federal Chancellor: My name is Gusenbauer, Alfred Gusenbauer. – Both of them, at a time when the population really has nothing to laugh at, with their contributions, do provide something to smile at, at least in the eyes of the population. Now a word to the BZÖ and to the Mr Westenthaler, who stands above. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler is located in the back bank series of the BZÖ.]] Perhaps you can consider why the BZÖ is in the electorate's favour so much below any threshold of perception. Perhaps you can answer the question why, for example, in Vienna, the BZÖ, where the BZÖ was running with the candidate Westenthal, achieved only 1.2 percent of the votes – and that is less than the Communists. [[Abg. Bitch: Mister 1 per cent!]] And in the National Council election, despite a commitment of many million euros, no one today knows where these millions came from, only 1.8 percent of the votes that have fallen on him. [[Abg. Strache: That would be an investigation committee!]] Is it because the voters are so stupid and do not recognize the genius of this political group, or is it because their policies are so unsympathetic and of the content that they do not agree? My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, let me give you just one example: Remunerations. Today, they shed crocodile tears on the fact that the Federal Chancellor earns over €20 000 for the first time. I would remind you that a request from the FPÖ for a zero wage round in the 1. Meeting of the National Council of this legislative period was introduced and you all voted against – red, black, green and also orange. That means if You are polemizing here today, then please do not do so! – The Lord elected Minister of Defense Scheibner is a bit nervous and shaky; he should be left untouched. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner imitates the speaker's hand movements.]] You also have to go back a little bit and see what it was like when this great BZÖ was sitting in the government. It was in the beginning of 2000. [[Abg. Scheibner: Not the BZÖ! You were still FPÖ press secretary!]] I can only say today: We generate for once that you were in our ranks. There are enough points, for example, that Mr Westenthaler, Mr Scheibner and all the others were the architects of the record immigration of the time. There were twice as many immigrants who were brought to Austria as under a SPÖ chancellor. That's a record suspect! And it was so that crime exploded. [[Abg. Scheibner: Just for you!]] – Listen, or come. Get out of here! It was so that the plans were deleted at the executive and the millions were wasted for a safety concept in the air so that we could have these Eurofighters in the air, which can guarantee security there, while on the ground the drug traffickers could carry out their business unhindered. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's talking about a burden today. Let us take a look at what was actually the case! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (the hand movements of the speaker imitate) He should become a conductor!]] Pension reductions, accident pension taxes, ambulance charges, unemployment benefit reductions, emergency aid, halving of the tax burden on workers, higher taxation of holiday and dismissal allowances, increase of car taxes, energy taxes and so on. In 2001, the total burden was 34 billion schilling. In 2003, shortly after, when Mr. Westenthaler took the hat and fled somewhere from the warm oven of Mr. Stronach, the load was already 43 billion schilling. [[Abg. Strache: Scheibner, Westenthaler and Co!]] To stand here today – no matter who has the government responsibility – and to polemise and deny that you could do anything better, although it is documented that in the time when you were responsible you didn't bring anything together at all and that your own party has chased one out with the wet squat, that's simply rude! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You're a political snake man. What you're doing about flaws and twists, that's incredible. But now we come to the SPÖ, which is actually the topic. [[Interim calls at BZÖ and ÖVP.]] - Listen, Mr. stupid! Now we're dealing with the government partner, your dear friends. At the SPÖ it is so that it really has a difficult situation. On the one hand, she already lives with the accusation that she is a crash party, is a sandbox party, and has not kept her promises. But by far the worst accusation is that today, not only by us, but by the media commentators, you are considered the new BZÖ. And that's one thing I couldn't go to the political summer. Therefore, you would be well advised to get rid of this lazy smell. They are precisely in the role of the political riser of an ÖVP, where the elected German Chancellor Schüssel has said that 90 percent of the policies of the elected government will continue under your Chancellorship. You have to answer to your voters about the Eurofighters as regards the Banking Committee and its “turn-off” as regards the question of a social turn-on that has not taken place, as regards the 500 € tax relief in 2007, for which there is even a SPÖ Federal Party Party decision. There you can see what it is worth when you go into the race before a election at the SPÖ in the Federal Party Presidency with such an election promise. And so on and so on. You're responsible to your voters! But one thing is important to me: that you, where it is about parliamentary rights, where it is about minority rights, where it is about rights of investigation, at least there try to remain true to your word; that you really do not just say as a lip commitment to session, yes, we are making an investigation committee with 20 mandates, or also what you said in the opposition, that perhaps the speaking time of the ministers is taken off from the speaking time of the political groups and thus creates more distribution justice in the speeches. And so on and so on. There are many interesting things to finally bring this Parliament to life and to allow for majority formations that are beyond this rigid coalition framework. Lively parliamentaryism – to this day, there is no such thing as him. He is de facto “dead ” when he was already dead under the chosen government. We already had the comparison with James Bond and Federal Chancellor Gusenbauer today. – I would like it personally – it would also be more striking – if, instead of James Bond, you might have such a kind of Don Camillo and Peppone Film Revival, with the “pater Willi” – the nickname you give your vice-channer – on the one hand as Don Camillo and the Peppone on the other. [[towards Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer]] This is quite justifiable politically. But let's leave this aside. The problems are serious enough. The fact is: What the BZÖ is producing today is nothing but an abuse of Parliament, an increase of all voters. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is an opposition politician who says the urgent is an abuse!]] Speaking towards SPÖ, I can only appeal to you: Please stay true to your course as it is now! Do not turn a millimeter away, because your former voters are running to us in crowds and see us as a real alternative to you, as a social home party, which remains true to their promise and their word! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Why do you have only 11 percent?]] – We already have 15, and you are going down to 30! In this sense, I am pleased to be able to support your voters today, and I promise that we will not let them down the way you just do. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e15452	Mr Scheibner spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr President, you know the rules: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e15476	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker spoke a little bit into a whirlwind. He's been messing up a little bit of times. He claimed that the BZÖ had been in the government since 2000 and had been responsible for all possible things that he had listed and assessed as negative. – That’s wrong! It is true that the BZÖ was founded in 2005 and that there was a government coalition between the Austrian People's Party and the Austrian Freedom Party in 2000 and 2005. Mr Vilimsky was the press secretary of the Freedom Party at the time and has designed all these things.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e15530	There is no actual correction of an actual correction, Mr Klubobmann. I'm sorry. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Darmann. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e15560	Don't worry. The content is important. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You can't read that!]] - It's not meant for you. Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! At the beginning, I would like to express to my very stranger that the German Chancellor, who should normally also have a political role as a model in this republic, is going down as far as he is concerned – Mr Bundeskanzler! Please listen! – and a whole group of people who have taken a professional course by such humiliating formulations or evaluations in the choice of words, using the title engineer so devalued. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Maybe you'll listen once someone speaks in Parliament! Prepotent, like the vice chancellor!]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: What do you mean?]] [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer: Why?]] - Well, please, each one of you has heard that. That's why I'm giving you something to think about home. There is an old wisdom that says: Not the title makes the man, but the man the title. – Please write that behind your ears, Mr. Federal Chancellor! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There are thousands of engineers! Just make fun of you!]] But now also on the matter itself. The Greens could also cut themselves off, because of course this also applies to women, and there is also the third President of the National Council, who has spoken on the Carinthian issue at the lowest level. But now also on Question No 16. Federal Chancellor! As a rule, I think most of the groups are known as a speaker who tries to be more objective and not emotional. So far, I've been most of it, I have to emphasize that. [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll goes to the government bank and talks with Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer.]] – Mr Bundeskanzler, I ask you to take care of it briefly! Just as you, Mr Bundeskanzler, have received in your answer to the question number 16 of the consensual solution of the local panel question in Carinthia and here in reply to a urgent question have claimed that the head of state of Carinthia has prevented a consensual solution, since I really have to emphasize what Mr Scheibner has already said that the SPÖ – and only the SPÖ! – in the summer of 2006 was the only party that actually prevented a definitive, consensual solution in the country of Carinthia in this issue. [[BZÖ and Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Klaus Hubert Auer.]] Continue to your claim that you've been driving around in Carinthia and have talked to all the representatives of the Carinthian population. – The fact is: You have not talked to the representatives of the Carinthian population, since the elected representatives, the College in the state government, the College of the Carinthian Landage have not been visited or invited by you. – There was no such thing as that. That is, you were not at all interested in hearing the opinion of the majority in Carinthia. If you have met with representatives of the Slovenian minority – the Slovenian-speaking minority – that is all right and beautiful. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer: Is the Haider a member of the state government?]] – Mr. Dr. Haider is a member of the state government, but if you talk to him afterwards after you have proposed your Special Place Map solution, it is not credible. I brought it. [[The speaker points to the table he had set up before.]] I know it's very small. – They propose a location panel solution with 163 bilingual town boards and more than 500 bilingual signposts, want to arrange the layout immediately, the affected municipalities or localities want to buy through higher funding and then prevent a final solution by a consensus commission. I have to say that if you approach the head of the state in Carinthia afterwards and now ask ourselves why we are really upset, then this is very unbelievable if you say you have spoken to the majority of the Carinthian population. – Mr Bundeskanzler, please listen! [[The speaker shows Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer the table.]] You can also take a closer look at this, so that you can see from where you are now scattering the town boards – from Hermagor to Velden to Volksmarkt, Bleiburg, 163 local panels – signposts over 500 – a real "scherzerl" from Carinthia – a pure masking and distraction maneuver, just because you have said that before the summer there will be a final solution to the Carinthian local panel question. You seem to have really – I don't know who advised you – brought a few ideas to paper in the short term and presented them. It has been presented under a large media office. That's what I'd like to say: It was therefore a tactic of concealment, just to present something and push the black Peter to Carinthia, because your press spokesperson Stefan Pöttler did. In an interview or in an interview on June: "But Gusenbauer has done his job in this context anyway, Mr Pöttler emphasises – the further talks would now take place at the parliamentary level: “The German Chancellor’s side is currently doing the job.” So present an unacceptable proposal and then put the blame on the Carinthian population, which is really last-class! [[Interference of Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer.]] In addition, you will find: “It is now clearly up to the EIA to ensure that a solution is possible. Then: ‘The fact that the Carinthian head of state can be won for a solution is excluded.’ To say that after the summer of 2006, where only SPÖ has really prevented a solution to the question of the local panel for Carinthia in final form is really a level of which the Carinthian population itself is supposed to take a picture! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e15724	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek's next speech. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e15746	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! I don't think I'm alone. Many of us would have thought differently of this last session. The Greens located "Schizo-Punk" trends at the ÖVP. The FPÖ brings conspiracy theories as often as it does. And the BZÖ psychostress is obvious. [[Abg. Scheibner: Now comes a self-criticism!]] I don't know where he's going. Perhaps there are surveys, Mr Westenthaler – you are an engineer, that is true – that have probably predicted a crash into insignificance, for why would you have taken this kind of question to all of us today? - I have to say that. [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: But without practice! That's from the old clothes collection. I'll take it back!]] You really had deep concerns today when you were standing here. The eye rings are also quite dark. I think it is really an attempt to counter your chronic failure... – Have you heard this, Madam President? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: San Se where ang’rennt?]] Mr. Ing. Westenthaler just said to me: San Se where does it run? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I really wonder!]] – I really want him to have a call for order for it. This is a joke of yours, Mr President. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The eye rings are a naughtiness!]] You are sitting in this House of Deputies, in this House, you are a colleague of ours.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e15839	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Klubobmann! I'll look at the stenographic protocol. I didn't hear that, but I'm looking at the record.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e15854	This urgent question continues to be the attempt to be chronically unpleasant as it is, and it is the attempt to compensate for your chronic lack of substance, Mr Westenthaler! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are not a doctor who can make the diagnosis!]] What? They deliver today, is a highly unprofessional mix of election themes that you put on the table, from day-to-day policy topics, from nonsensory questions such as cuff history. This is really a reflection of your obviously politically confused state. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's where we needed you for this diagnosis!]] But you haven't chosen 4 500 742 people – fortunately, ladies and gentlemen! That means in clear text that you in no federal country except in Carinthia the 3.3 percent... – He has just made the wiper against me! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler makes the so-called disk-witness movement.]] I would just like to point out the level at which Mr Westenthaler is currently in the basement. – And all this despite the “Westis” – that was this little white dog with the orange collar – to want to reach 7 percent despite the goal of the BZÖ, and despite the “Mut wins” poster. Nevertheless, you have actually reached a shameful election result! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What you're doing is embarrassing! It's a shame to the Parliament!]] There are so many comments about you, Mr Ing. Westenthaler; I've only taken one out – maybe now you'll get even more into rage! – you've probably read that, by the graduate hairdresser. This expresses the policy you are making. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] The graduate hairdresser says: “I'm swinging” – that's the policy he used to say, Mr. Westenthaler – “between early interventional casting and sag-Adieu toupet. At any rate, one third of your hair is illegal and belongs to being pushed off.” [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Did you eat something bad? Or what? Take a look at the mirror – and then talk more!]] This only shows what contents you represented – cabaretistically expressed. I quote the “Salzburger Nachrichten” of 25. August 2006, where a comment had this content. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But it can't be normal!]] But in addition, it is also important to look at human qualities of politicians, and there you represent a type of politician who really made statements where one must be ashamed that such people are sitting here in the House. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's getting better and better! Can you take a little back?]] Maybe you can't remember: You once said to a police officer – and I think it's very unpleasant if I bring it now: “Don’t you look so stupid.” “Don’t you know who you are?” “It would be better for you as a police officer to lose some pounds.” – This is in the “profile” of 24. October 1994. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You're talking like a bastard.]] – That’s worth a call for order again! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I take note of this with honor! Against your level I take note of every call for order!]] Madam President, as you are just talking to me, this is unbearable, Mr Westenthal. But that's self-evident anyway. To this alone, this policeman's statement is really worth it – and it's worth it – that you're no longer in this government. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's incredible! You're not worth being a Member! Last-class thing like that!]] They have only left out political announcements for seven years and have actually done nothing. Mrs Sozialminister other than Haubner! You have this social report, which is really a poverty report – you know that just as I do! – to be responsible for your policy. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: I have received a praise from the Federal Chancellor!]] It has been worthwhile for us to have for six months a Social Democratic Chancellor who, together with the ÖVP, is now trying to set up a government programme that will bring improvements to many people in Austria. - You're just jealous! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] When you said in 2002 – Mr Westenthaler, I remember Knittelfeld! – we take the hat and say Adieu: I don't think you'd stop anyone in 2007!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e16042	The next speaker is Mrs Zwerschitz. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e16064	I've got to say, Obviously, some people here are incredibly mature for vacation. The polemics and the emotions that are currently cooking up – it is fascinating! [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Has the bus already left you?]] It's high time we returned a little bit to the contents. I think there is little of such polemic discussions, because they do not really bring us forward, but if some believe they should. As I said, I also think that the argument put forward in this question is quite polemic and not particularly practical or necessary to initiate such a discussion if one considers it necessary. What's true in all cases: It contains a number of things that we in this House should really discuss urgently, which we have not had on the agenda yet, or on which the debate is simply refused. That is why I find the request very exciting. I would like to focus on the subject of child poverty: Every fifth child in the EU is affected by poverty. I find it very exciting that the BZÖ is so committed to doing so, because what all the studies confirm to us is that a mother who is at home with children's rich families does not help to ensure that children are better financially cared for. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Rosary: So this is incredible!]] – That’s not incredible, but that’s what you can take from any study. This is linked to the fact that in the meantime our society is built up in such a way that you need two incomes. [[Abg. Rosary: If you deserve, it's less than if you earn two! That's banal! Incredible!]] – What’s incredible or not, I don’t think I’ll let you decide. What is also added is that this child money does not really help against child poverty. That is why, I believe, it is not the appropriate example. If Mr Gusenbauer first spoke about how great it is that fundamental rights are now finally better integrated into the EU, then I can only say: Yeah, it's great. However, a contribution to combating child poverty would also be to finally include children's rights in the Constitution. So far, the major parties have refused to do so. It was postponed. But maybe that's still going to happen. I would like to say to this BZÖ proposal: When you were in the government, you have just valorized the care money by 2 percent – just one time! – So you haven't been so successful until now. The tax reduction concerns small and medium-sized enterprises. If you really want to care about the little people, please take care of those who do not pay taxes, because they do not help the tax reductions. Social is not this government. - That's right. We now have a working time law that helps people to find even more difficult working conditions. The tuition fees have not been abolished, but on the other hand the inheritance tax has been abolished – money that we would urgently need to relocate. We still have the foreign law created by the SPÖ and not really the political will to change it. We have a federal welfare fund law, which is a maximum of an approach, but really no social regulation. And if Mr Gusenbauer speaks of election promises in his speech, I am a little surprised that he still trusts, given the fact that we have turned off the investigation committees, that now Eurofighters have, and that other things he has promised in this way – "Study fees" – have not been changed. However, what I would like to say in all criticisms is that this government also has to do a lot about the previous government. [[Abg. Scheibner: It was better!]] In this respect, it is extremely exciting that the BZÖ has just submitted this request, for one thing you have to say already: The previous government – and thus the ÖVP is the only party that has the responsibility for everything over the many years – has also put something into the current government, and you were very much involved in it. In this respect, one must also take the FPÖ into account, because for a time the FPÖ was also part of this government. It can only acquit itself from responsibility, because then some of it split apart and continued to rule under a different name and therefore the responsibility is now overturned. What has really been wrong with me is how the Federal Chancellor has now put on the government glasses with the blind spots. We have often heard the accusation that the country is bad. We have heard of a grass and of a bowl. That's from a trick box that isn't worthy of him. It's flat, it's killerphrases, and it means nothing but that you don't want to deal with problems, that you don't really want to talk about it, that you understand any criticism and any suggestion only as a system criticism and that you don't want to talk about any difficulty for God's will. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: This is probably a screech...!]] They say it's all wonderful, then you can close your eyes and don't need to change anything.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e16174	The next speaker was Mrs Rosenkranz. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e16196	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, You usually enjoy being a politician when television time is, you can act, and the ORF transmits. – To be honest: Now in the situation, I'm glad it's not. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are now on the third day, of course we all have something like a camp-cooler, that's all right, but a certain level, Mr. Seatable, should not be undermined. [[in the direction of the Abg. Ing. Westenthal]] That really bothers me as a woman. [[Complementary with FPÖ and SPÖ.]] [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] – What to do as a woman, except to ignore it, and that is not possible. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] – No, that’s not a women’s solidarity, it’s about the dignity of the house – and now I’m saying it. If the citizen sees us here, who doesn't take the thing like we do with a little humour, then he's horrified. We don't need any illusion at all. And that can't be our goal! [[Complementary with FPÖ and SPÖ.]] I'm really wondering now: What am I actually doing with my 8 minutes speaking time? The satire, which the Secretary of State, in an excellent way, has been offered out of service, cannot, of course, be surpassed, and I do not accept it at all. So I will re-examine some of the points that others have raised and put our position to record. Mr. Bundeskanzler Gusenbauer – it is a request addressed to you – the power has greatly changed you in a very short time. That, I think, can already be noted. That's remarkable, and that's probably not good. I remember when you – you are my fellow countryman – actually rose in rapid speed to the Federal Party Observer of the SPÖ, the Social Democracy. There you are once – many have laughed, but I have actually found this sympathetic – with a red briefcase to Paris, I think, traveled. – You can't imagine that at all now. Sit down now You are behind me: full, satisfied – I am not saying now, arrogant, but almost so – and you are actually right. The goal is to be chancellors, that's it! [[Abg. Neugebauer: More respect for the person! That's not all right!]] That's what you have to blame. You see wherever you go in the middle of the gearbox. You “play” is, I think, too much said you were nominated in the Oberliga. And that's it, so you're happy. They are a good secondment for the President-in-Office of the Council, Merkel, but they are social democrats and perhaps should also bring your political background in a little bit. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: It's about the matter!]] – Yes, it’s about the matter, but the thing is not just black, you might have to find out. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Therefore, before that, there was so little opportunity to re-establish this fundamental right charter. I'm telling you, it's to be feared that maybe you don't even look at exactly what you're praising here. There are a number of renowned personalities – and there can be no better testimony on this question than Roman Herzog, he was the chairman of the Fundamental Rights Commission – who is horrified to warn of how this process has developed. Again: The EU has already achieved an apparent fullness of power for some time now, and it was necessary that this fullness of power, which, as we all know, is not the fullness of a democratically legitimate institution, but the EU, in part, contradicts all democratic practices – no separation of power, no feedback, and so on – should therefore be restricted and somehow bound. That's why the idea is: The EU institutions will be limited in a kind of self-binding by a catalogue of fundamental rights in their power. That is, if we become active, then we stop, stop – for example, because there can be no discriminatory treatment. Just like that – that's how Duke wrote on 18 July. June, that is, just before the summit on 21-22. June, in the “world” – it was observed that this instrument, which should be an instrument of self-determination, is completely wrong, namely, that, although it was expressed and expressly stated that these processes of anti-discrimination should not serve to extend power, to apply them to other institutions and to ask them to apply them, that is exactly what has happened. It's not strange and sad and strange that the British don't join in. – It’s typical, of course! The British as the oldest democracy of modern Europe preserve their rights and do not accept this Charter of Fundamental Rights as binding for themselves. That's where we should take a look at the British. That's exactly what happened, what can often happen, you experience it: For purpose, nonsense, out of charity plague, becomes an instrument of self-binding, the restriction of power becomes an instrument of arrogation of power and an instrument of centralization. These are all expressions that, of course, I do not invent so freely, but in terms of which I rely on statements by Roman Herzog, who was the chairman of this Fundamental Rights Commission. This is a good development for us: that people who are in the midst of the events who are involved in the integration of Europe in the middle of the event warn of these paths, which we also disapprove of. So we don't want persecution, but we're in the very best society. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] After a complete act in Brussels, yesterday, I think it was – in the “FAZ” Federal Constitutional Court Udo di Fabio once again writes quite clearly that this thoughtless implementation – I believe, since it refers to politics – greatly limits freedom. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Hopefully short!]] He also says: Freedom is in the state, in the nation state. So if you expand your skills here, you will certainly no longer have freedom, and you will not, above all, be able to achieve your goal of which you are talking, a social Europe. On the contrary! If an instrument turns around, then also neat. Rather, they will achieve that, with the instrument of this EU Charter, for example, with the argument of the prohibition of anti-discrimination, we will be able to stop the protection of our workers. We are not protecting ourselves – our fundamental rights are enshrined in our constitution – but we are giving the possibility that we can no longer guarantee our protection exclusively, for example by the fact that citizens cannot be involved differently and better and more intensively in the social state than others. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Let me tell you again: They do not do anything good, and all the social-state rhetoric will not be able to conceal it! Instead of praising this Charter of Fundamental Rights, you should consider why the English do not want it – have you heard arguments, Federal Chancellor, have the English argued?, that would interest me – and draw from it the conclusions and say: [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer: Yes!]] It is better for me to get what we already have in a very beautiful form than I am in danger of losing our social rights and fundamental rights too!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e16329	The next speaker is Mrs Haubner. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e16361	That's the way it is! Thank you for the tip, otherwise I would have forgotten, Mr Mitterlehner. Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker said that we all had a collegiate camp and that after three days it was difficult to find clear words out here at the speaker's desk. [[Abg. Murauer: A short while ago!]] – I decide that myself, dear Mr Murauer. These clear words, I think, are important, especially because some previous speakers have now taken a bit of a step into the drawer and assumed that we have a psychostress. [[Abg. Brosz: Westenthaler, for example!]] – I say we don’t have any psychostress at all, but we only perceive what is in our opposition, namely: To ask urgent questions. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The SPÖ has done this for years. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, I think a lot of women's solidarity, and I say that if there is something one-sided, I am always on the side of women, but I also say: A minimum degree of courtesy should not only be expected from men, but also women should display a minimum level of courtesy when they stand out here. [[New condolences with BZÖ.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, I would like to thank you very much for the praise you have expressed by seeing Austria as a country of social warmth. – The fact that it is still a country of social warmth after six months, of course, is due to the government over the last six years. Therefore, thank you very much. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] I am pleased that you see this as positive as your Minister of Social Affairs, who said before the elections, is in need of care – and after the elections he said: The care and care in Austria is already exemplary, and we create improvements! No one has anything to do with improvements, but: What is now in place with this 24-hour model of improvements is not real improvements – many have already pointed out – because to this day no one knows what it is really costing, and that the assets and not just the cash assets are taken back are really unfair. That is why I would like to appeal once again to you, Mr Bundeskanzler – you said in the discussion that it was not the last word yet – that: If your word is true, then speak a word of power that the asset limit of €5,000 falls! I also ask – Mr Mitterlehner has already given me the key word ‘care money’ –: Where is the valorization of the care allowance? I know you have the intention to do it, but before the election it sounded different. As you have said, a valorization system will be introduced because there has not been a fair adjustment so far. There I am with you. We once increased by 2 percent and then no longer had the opportunity. If it had happened to me, we'd have valorized every year. – Now you have the opportunity to do this immediately – so do it! I have another appeal to you: Discussing You may not be as concerned with how to get students to pay the tuition fees with a very peculiar social service, but consider: How can the voluntary social year – which runs until September – be continued? What will happen from September 2007 when this support is no longer available? A second area I would like to address, which is certainly not a special achievement of this government – and I have been surprised to see you here as a Social Democratic Chancellor – is the extension of the working hours that we have decided here in Parliament this week. An extension of working hours to twelve hours, as it is present here, is simply a burden on workers. That's fact! People work longer at the same wage. We from the BZÖ believe that if you work more, if you work longer, if you do more, you should earn more. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I am missing what is necessary, namely the accompanying measures. Where is the employee participation? Where is a discharge of overtime supplements and the like? So here, I think, the wrong path has been taken. This is not the way the BZÖ wants to go with you, which is why we cannot support you either. You have also adopted family policy. De facto there is no longer a policy for families in this country. The only thing that is a topic: how to enrich a well-introduced childcare allowance with a new model. If it's a good model, I'm in favour of just getting less money for a shorter period of time, that's not a good model, that's not in the sense of the families! The second issue that governs family policy is childcare. I've known that for years. I was always accused of not only proclaiming that I should not just demand, but I should do something. – I’ve done a lot, and this promotion is still running today. However, they only call for the creation of childcare facilities, precisely in the knowledge that the countries are responsible, that they are not going without the countries and that the federal government has not provided a budget for this. That is why I say that even in family policy there are no ideas, no further development, no considerations about how child care can be made manageable and how families can be taxed off. That is how I could cite a lot of examples. The latter is what was agreed with the social partners yesterday: increasing health insurance contributions. I do not think this is the last word in Parliament. Finally, what I notice: In the past, the social partners were the shadow government – now this government is ruling under the shadow of the social partners. And there's a lot of people in this country asking themselves: Do we even need this government with its particular culture of conflict, with its idealess policy? Do we need a German chancellor who has not yet implemented a single election promise?
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e16446	The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e16468	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! My ministers! Mrs. State Secretary! Mrs Haubner has asked for clear words. I believe that this wish can be fulfilled, especially when it comes to what the BZÖ and the FPÖ brought to Austria when they were not yet the BZÖ. I should like to remind you of this, Mrs Haubner: They are also responsible that the number of unemployed has increased by 35 percent from the year 2000. They have decided to increase health insurance contributions by over 30 percent for pensioners. You decided to increase the prescription fees by more than 40 percent at the time. They abolished the Jugendgerichtshof. They have caused deterioration in rental law. They have significantly influenced the staffing situation in the judicial sector and the executive and therefore have the responsibility for it, Mr. Ing. Westenthaler, that crime has spread in this country. This is where you share responsibility, and you should take note of this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Riepl: That's the way it is!]] Also clear words to yourself, to your performance, Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler – so that I can say that correctly – Mrs. Haubner. What's it look like? – You spoke of Fortune, Mr Westenthal. Was this a special Fortune when you wanted to adorn the Austrian mountain peaks with semi-mortems? I don't know, somehow you don't seem to be very successful. So you haven't always been so successful. Or: What is your relationship with dignity in general? This is also reflected in the APA of 30. October 2006 reads where the so-called beating coward – I quote – is found: ‘It could not be demonstrated that ‘Westenthaler has made more than unsuspected environmental and alcohol-related outrages’.’ [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Wrongly quoted, you can't even quote!]] That's what the prosecutor's gonna say. So much for your understanding of dignity, Mr Westenthaler! I can still add – colleague Heinisch-Hosek quoted only a part of it, I can fully quote what is in the “profile” of 24. ==References== [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Quote what she said!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: When was that?]] You threw out a police officer, “Don’t you know who you are? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What year was that?]] It's a joke that you want to punish a delegate." And then you said to the police officer: “Don’t look so stupid, it would be better for you as a police officer to lose some pounds.” Mr. Ing. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Everything answered! Everything's not right!]] Mr Westenthaler, I hope you have already apologized to the colleague in question. That would be appropriate, Mr. Engineer! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] If this question concerns a little bit of a friend economy and this government is subordinated to Postenschacher, I may say to you, Mr Westenthaler: The fact that Josef Christl, a member of the Cabinet of Finance Minister Karl-Heinz Grasser, has suddenly landed in the Board of Directors of the Austrian National Bank, that is, with confidence, friendly economy. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who?]] If the former Social Minister Herbert Haupt in the Social Ministry has, so to speak, created a job as a disabled lawyer with a combined salary of about €12 000 per month, then this is one thing, if, however, the Social Minister who follows him, Mrs Haubner, so to speak, forgives this job to him without hearing, then this is not only a friend economy, but clearly a post-chacher. And for that, Mrs Haubner, you bear the responsibility, that's certain! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'm holding on, ladies and gentlemen: This government has provided an impressive current account for six months. The Federal Chancellor has also done this. I think we can be proud of this country. There is more economic growth, there is a lot of investment in rail, in road, in research, and it goes a little further on the educational topic. The Federal Chancellor out of service Wolfgang Schüssel nodds and was also in favour of that when we passed the Social Rights Amendment Act, which changed and improved the "Hackler regulation", improved and changed the halving of the corridor board. I am convinced that this government will be very successful in the next three and a half years. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e16605	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Strache. 9 minutes of welcome; the rest of your group's speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e16628	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Ladies and gentlemen! On the one hand, I would like to say that, in all conflicts, including in terms of content, there are also conflicts, because there are differing opinions between the political groups, that there is a certain level to be maintained here in this House and that there is a debate in such a way that there is no intervention and that certain terms are not the best. I have to hold this clearly and clearly here! If there are calls from Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler, where he calls in: “Dreaks”, “Spins them?”, “San Se where ang’rennt?”, then I really must say: It all has its limits! I would like to reject this levellessness from my side! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We should deal with the content. It is also possible to polemise – not a question, every political group does – but there are certain rules of play to comply with, and certain limits which should not be interrupted, and that is why it is my concern to hold this down. I would also like to say that in the years from 2000 to 2005 all politicians responsible for these negative developments in the Federal Government or also in this House were those who are today at the BZÖ. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true!]] Mr Scheibner is sitting there, Mr Westenthaler, and Mrs Haubner is sitting there, and I do not know what they are all called. I'm not going to deal with that either. But if you have to bear this responsibility, then you should take your own peace and put your credibility more in the foreground. [[Abg. Scheibner: You must stick to the truth!]] I think it's important to hold it once again. There are many things that bother us about this federal government, many things that bother us with Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer. He promised a lot to the voters before the election, he put a lot of promises, but he didn't like it. This is well documented in the public. Gusenbauer has not abolished the study fee, has not done anything against the Eurofighters and has not made a new invitation to tender, although he would have had the opportunity to do so. That would have been possible. There are legal opinions confirming that there would have been the possibility of processing, reaching a free exit from the contract, re-subscribing, and then obtaining a cheaper airspace safety product while at the same time fulfilling the military duty booklet. That would have been possible! We have experienced that in the field of care, unfortunately, God did not come up with a solution. What happened is no more and no less than further legalising an illegal state by the end of the year that illegally employed caregivers should continue to work. The Austrian nurses will be very grateful to you for this. We have had to experience in the care sector that today, unfortunately, people who need to be cared for around the clock are being made so far by God that they can take everything away from them up to €5,000 of their savings. It can't be social! This is not a social responsibility if people who have worked hard for a lifetime, then when they become a care case when they become disabled, everything is taken away. This is not our social understanding! In recent months, we have had to experience that this federal government has also fallen into other areas, such as the promise of a tax reduction immediately after the election. Before the election, Dr. Gusenbauer promised that, after the election, a tax reduction measure will be quickly imposed on small and medium-sized enterprises, saying: the medium-sized, relief. – Nothing like that is the case! One comforts those who need it until the year 2010 to make an election sugar. We had to experience that pensioners did not receive a pensioner price index adjustment they deserve, i.e. of 1.9 percent. There too, you left the Courage to keep your election promise. They were only willing to make 1.6 percent possible. This is an endless latte of promises that go up to the prescription fees and drug prices you have addressed today. It would be easy and just to abolish VAT at last in the field of medicines. It would be easy to do that! And it would be fair to do that too! You have it in your hand, but you have to realize, unfortunately, that you are not the “social fighter” for which you spent yourself before the election and when you presented yourself. Unfortunately, nothing has become out of it. You yourself have made a comparison with James Bond in Guatemala by making a name game with your name. This has consistently led to headaches – also on site. But you must be accused that you are really someone who is called a "double zero agent", because all that you have done up to now, Lord Chancellor, unfortunately God really went into his pants. It's like the Pechmarie. They obviously put on the bad luck! All you have promised to do is start up to your efforts in Guatemala, so that we can do the Olympic Games in Salzburg, it's gone wrong. And this, unfortunately, is God's bitter reality, sad reality, a reality that is at the disadvantage of the Austrians. – And we want to remove that! They have helped to turn off the Banking Investigation Committee so that it cannot fully comply with its audit mandate. They also did not support minority rights, including control rights in this House. They strangled her. If you stand out here today, Mr Cap, and once again emphasize that you will be committed to the fact that there will be minority rights to use investigation committees in the future, then please, Mr Klubobmann, for you have helped to turn off the Banking Committee, which had a test order and had not yet been completed in three points. What is that promise if you live something completely different in reality? Then, unfortunately, this is not to be taken seriously. These are exactly the shawls, where you can turn a little bit, with a funny and nice and cheerful rhetoric. You have no doubt that you can only benefit from having this rhetoric, but people can't be fooled by it. The realities look different. And these are sad realities. It has also been addressed today, and it is important for me to explain our position here. We have the situation in Carinthia, especially in Carinthia, that we are experiencing a completely absurd “art debate” – an art debate that already existed under Bruno Kreisky, my memory of a social democracy, in the context of a census. Unfortunately, it was not God’s group survey, which he did not make. Finally, it would be necessary to carry out a group survey so as to have data so that you really have numbers so that you can talk seriously about it with the Carinthians on the basis of data. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Talk to your SPÖ mayors in Carinthia! They'll tell you: This is a “zero debate ”! If we really make a group survey, then we will find that there is not at all the alleged proportion of the Slovenian minority in the Carinthian population that in fact even bilingual settlement boards should be dismantled, because there are not so many Slovenian minority members in Carinthia at all. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Sounds.]] So far, such a group survey has never been conducted. There we must, please, be so reasonable that we with the Carinthians on the basis of data solve this question and do not take action against the Carinthian interests. You will have to answer for it yourself if you go through something here, for which every Carinthian, regardless of which political party he belongs to, has no understanding if you simply try to shave it over a comb here. In this respect, our position is clear: People's group survey, collect data at last and then provide a solution on the basis of these data together with the Carinthians. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We also believe that the Vienna State Treaty is of course fulfilled. It was a completely unnecessary debate that the Constitutional Court of Justice set up in this regard. That was not at all for him, for he is not a legislative body. He can only say that something may be unconstitutional, but he does not specify what solution one has to decide here in the House. A solution to the question of the local panel can only be that there should be bilingual local panels for a minority share of 25 percent in a Carinthian district and at the same time in a Carinthian town and in a Carinthian community. Let's do this the way it's being regulated internationally! There are European examples. It is not true that Austria would be an individual case. But what you want is no different than to carry out the whole thing on the back of the Carinthians. But in reality this is not for integration and not for peaceful development! And that's why it's also rejected by our side. My final sentence: Unfortunately, you, Mr Parnigoni, have continued with God exactly what ÖVP and BZÖ have done in security policy, where they have left behind a disastrous situation: 3 500 executive officials are missing in Austria! This is really a sad balance.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e16730	Mr Scheibner spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would like to draw your attention to § 58 GOG. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e16755	Mr President. My previous speaker, Mr Strache, has claimed that all the exponents in the government and in Parliament in the years 2000 followed, which were then in the FPÖ, read the minutes! – now in the BZÖ. [[Call the FPÖ: He didn't do it!]] I need to defend some of my colleagues here so that there isn't anything left. [[Abg. Strache: Barbara Rosenkranz has always voted for the FPÖ!]] At the time, the honourable Member Graf, who spoke science at the time, made an excellent science policy of this government. – He is not a member of the BZÖ! As a health speaker, Mrs Rosenkranz and the chairman of this committee, in 2005 together with us, has prevented the Austrians from being burdened in this area. [[Abg. Strache: She also voted against the EU Constitution!]] – She is not a member of the BZÖ! It has enforced the EU Constitution and many Austrian positions. – Also he is not a member of the BZÖ! But they were all in good hands for government policy at this time! Finally, there was the representative of Mrs Uschi Haubner at the time, who was the colleague Strache, who, together with me, agreed on the Turkey line of the Federal Government. – He is also not a member of the BZÖ!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e16846	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lap. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e16867	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr. Federal Chancellor! Values of social-democratic members of the Federal Government, it is nice that you sit here, because the Austrians know that the people are now at the centre of the government and that people's concerns are perceived and implemented. That's good, and it's working on it. The Austrians know: It's worth it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Previously we have experienced something from the field of classicalism, and there is a play by Lessing, that is, “Kabale and Love” – by Schiller; thank you! – and this reminds us because, as is now the case with FPÖ and BZÖ, they do not know that yet. [[Call to the ÖVP: This is from Schiller!]] But we can still do some funding here on the last school day in Austria. And I am pleased, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ. It's like this: All of them were still in the government when a tax evasion came. At the time, measures have been taken where it was important for you to accommodate, provide for your artists, and where you saw that the interests of these artists are perceived. You've been most committed to your own people, no matter if they're orange or blue. The Austrians stayed on the track. I would just like to mention three names: Gaugg, fable and slama. And many others have been serving the state. As a government party, you were responsible for ambulance charges, accident pension taxes, the highest unemployment rate, massive pension cuts, savings in education, children and young people and saving in health care. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You did everything back immediately! We have seen that everything has been reversed!]] Mr. Ex-Vizekanzler Gorbach really was a debt maker, because he left 8 billion € in debt only in the area of rail at the ÖBB and a much higher debt mountain in the area of the road. [[Abg. Scheibner: These were investments!]] That means you can't be oriented at all. On the contrary, the BZÖ is not a trademark, but rather: You still represent, although you have been active for so many years now,... [[New call for tender of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Two days ago, Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler spoke about the payment of the care allowance after income. Mr Westenthaler, that is not the case! People who need care in our country are classified according to the needs, according to the needs of the support and then receive the corresponding care allowance. – This is really an uncertainty tactic from you that needs to be rejected! Ladies and gentlemen! It is now at the 24-hour care that you can have 2 500 € of income and that the assets, as with stationary facilities in our country, should be shown at a value of up to 5 000 €. – If you are talking about impoverishment here, when you are talking about the poor people in need of care, the money is taken out of the bag, then you have to point this out to the sharpest! Mrs Haubner, you spoke earlier about the need to reduce the amount of childcare allowance and then to reduce people's income. Just the opposite is the case: We Socialists and Socialists are committed to the fact that women and men in Karenz receive a higher childcare allowance, and not the same as you, who were responsible for the fact that women were no longer protected from dismissal after a long childcare period and have fled the work process. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ursula Haubner.]] The SPÖ in the government stands for more jobs. It stands for increasing employment, for better social security and, above all, for solving problems – unlike your former government, because you have always caused most problems! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] Federal Chancellor Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer works for the Austrian population, competent and efficient, and he gets recognized professionals who also work for Austria and for the Austrian population. The Austrians know: It's worth the SPÖ being in the government! Dear Mr Westenthaler, very many voters say: Do it at last. Take the hat and tell Adieu!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e16968	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e16989	Ladies and gentlemen! It is already significant that the BZÖ is making a urgent request on the topic of “Chronic failure of the government”, but it is not surprising either, because these are the actual experts on this topic: You have a seven-year experience with it, and this is probably also the subject where You can bring the best expertise. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Have you already introduced yourself?]] Thank God the government failure of the BZÖ is over now. At most, we now have to deal with a BZÖ opposition failure, namely, because you produce so much fog that you can no longer see the true criticisms of the Federal Government. This is opposition failure in pure culture! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What is such a criticism? – For example, the behaviour of the Federal Chancellor in the inheritance tax. I don't blame him for having fallen the inheritance tax. We owe this to the anachronistic clientele thinking of the ÖVP. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I don't even blame him for not persecuting himself. You need to discuss this with your voters. My trust is not shaken, I didn't choose you. I make a very different point to you: that you are going to Germany for better knowledge and are celebrating the case of inheritance tax there – that is the accusation I am making to you! – although you know the starting position. We are probably not so far apart in the analysis. They know that one million Austrians are vulnerable to poverty. You know that in the last ten years real net wages have not increased. They know that the wage rate is falling and that this is dramatic because it slowly reduces the funding base of our social security system. You yourself said today: We are the fourth largest country in the EU! – Only: We have a problem here: The richest 10 percent in this country own two thirds of all assets. And although prosperity has doubled over the last 30 years, we constantly have a financing problem when we discuss important concerns such as care, education or others. And what are you doing? – They travel to Germany and advertise the domestic location and tax competition. No one understands! I would have expected something else from you: I would have expected you to have an internal European initiative to eliminate precisely this tax and location competition, which is the ruinous one that impresses the wages of the budgetary areas, which weakens purchasing power and thus weakens internal demand and is a disastrous strategy for Europe. I would have expected you to do that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why, Federal Chancellor, I believe that there is a chronic failure. It has nothing to do with the opposition failure of the BZÖ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e17057	The last speaker in this debate was Mr Dolinschek. Your group's remaining speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e17078	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Lauter!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Lauter!]] We from BZÖ can actually be very proud of our government participation. We left our tracks there, we left marks, we set milestones! I just remember the execution, the child care allowance, of the so-called hackler rule – which you all wanted to abolish: [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Lauter!]] You wanted to abolish the childcare allowance – now you continue everything, the “hackler rule” as well as the childcare allowance! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would like to say one thing to colleagues from the FPÖ: From 2000 to 2005, we have jointly held responsibility, and today you have all the speakers, who have also been sitting in the ministries, in your club! - I don't know what to do? It must be said that we have carried on some things – I just listed them – such as the childcare allowance! Or don't you think we've reformed the deal? – Yes, you have to stand there once! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Klement.]] We have had different opinions with us and have dissociated – and not with the SPÖ, where the Federal Chancellor says, all have to be of the same opinion – he decrees the Carinthian SPÖ mayors a muzzle basket, although they have a completely different opinion on the town boards than he – or at the ÖVP, where, as I have heard – how has the honourable Member Ferdinand Maier said: [[Abg. You're getting a heart attack! Watch out!]] “Hands fold, goschen hold!” – the variety of opinions is also kept restrictive. – It was a little different with us, because you had a variety of opinions. Mr. Federal Chancellor Gusenbauer, if you say you promise that you will bring the local panel solution: Last year you prevented them! – And if you can believe your promises, then nothing will happen because you have broken the promise that you will abolish the tuition fees; You promised, the Eurofighter will now land – but nobody will. And you were also responsible for the sanctions we had at the time: They went abroad and talked badly about Austria. That's what you've had to answer! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And now, as the Federal Chancellor, you drive to Germany and talk about what is going on in Austria as well as the reduction of corporate tax from 34 to 25 percent. [[Abg. Street: (in the direction SPÖ) Now we have no more election promises! They're all broken!]] You recommend this to the Germans. – Earlier than you were in the opposition, you have defyed a reduction and voted against it. On the other hand, we have taken responsibility, together with our coalition partner, and have done a lot more here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] With 163, it is easy to drive over the town boards so that communities such as Velden, Köttmannsdorf, Keutschach, St. Margarethen and Feistritz, where the percentage is not given simply to make it arbitrary, without a basis, without a percentage survey?- Oh, my God! And if you do not make a minority statement as we have heard today, you will suffer shipwreck there, I can tell you that! And if you insert an opening clause with it, so hidden through the back door, you will also suffer shipwreck, because then it is like this: In the villages, where they are now standing and where they are added, they will stay and elsewhere will be put up – only, no one knows where that stops! Maybe this goes beyond the borders of Carinthia! – letter You're behind your ears! As I now see the front page of today’s “Kronen Zeitung”: 1 000 € from 2009 – the make-up of the minimum wages. – From 2009 you want to introduce 1 000 € minimum wage! [[Abg. That's not true! It's much less!]] – Well, that’s net €828 – that’s sad, Federal Chancellor! – And that only from 2009! And without a general collective agreement! So that still doesn't apply to everyone! That's a joke! – People will “thank you”!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e17216	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer rises from his place on the government bank.]] [[Abg. Strache: Now the Federal Chancellor can finally go to sleep!]] [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer: I have to work something!]] [[17:54:23]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e17264	I take the negotiations on the 2nd. Agenda item again. There is no one left to speak there either. This debate is also closed. We shall therefore proceed to the votes. Firstly, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Lunacek, colleagues on EU fundamental rights. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, fellow Members, on the effect of a new ratification in the form of a referendum of a new Treaty for the European Union. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Scheibner, colleagues and colleagues on the future of the European Union. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. [[17:55:22]] 3rd. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (143, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act establishing a Federal Act on the Supervision of Securities Services (WAG 2007) as well as the Banking Act, the Stock Exchange Act 1989, the Investment Fund Act, the Capital Market Act, the Financial Market Supervisory Authority Act, the Consumer Protection Act and the Commercial Regulations 1994 (182 d.b.) 4. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (128 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Insurance Supervisory Act and the Financial Market Supervisory Authority Act (VAG-Novelle 2007) (181 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e17356	We now come to points 3 and 4 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e17386	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What we will now decide in a few minutes is a very complicated legal work, ultimately an implementation from EU directives. The most important, the so-called Markets in Financial Instruments Directive – keyword for the experts: MiFID – serves to create a single European financial market and to harmonise the provisions for European securities service providers. The aim was to develop a wises council led by Lamfalussy – a well-known man who was co-organiser for the European Central Bank at the time. The goal is okay, not a question at all. It is certainly good that Europe's global competition cannot include financial markets. On the other hand, it must be said, of course, that the implementation of this objective, harmonisation of investment services and the creation of a common European financial market under the consumer protection concept, which plays a particularly important role in the EU, has naturally led to the fact that a principle provision in § 40 – the consumer has to get sufficient information that he can accurately assess the nature and risk – but in the consequence of that, 81 pages are necessary to implement it. That is, one has to say, unfortunately, that banks and credit institutions after Basel II are faced with a new paper war, a bureaucracy shift. But that is inevitable. I therefore expressly thank the Syndicus Herbert Pichler of the Chamber of Commerce, who has brought us a number of proposals on the government template in recent days so that the whole can work in practice. I would also like to thank my colleague, 'Jacky' Maier, who has also made a few proposals. Finally, we have a consensus on a package of amendments – in the financial committee it has not yet been so far, now in plenary. I really thank you. But one thing, I think, must also be said – in all consumer protection considerations: A banker said recently, as on the cigarettes, “can damage your health,” one should basically write: ‘Your securities may also lead to losses’. – The capital market is a risk market, and absolute security will never exist here. And there's also a certain amount of casino – that's what I'm saying – where you say: I don't play Lotto or Toto, but I buy a security where I have high returns promises! – Persons with such a casino humanity cannot, of course, protect the best legislator. I am convinced that we have a legislative work here, in which we have tried to make it really half practical. Finally, we cannot apply a rosin principle in the EU and not say: I want to be with the EU, but only apply what I like! - I can't. Therefore: Consent to this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e17441	Now that I have the minutes of the previous debate before me, I shall give Mr Westenthaler a call for an order for the expression "like a bastard you talk about". [[Call at the SPÖ: He deserved it!]] The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e17472	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Günter stupidly presented the problem of the MiFID Directive, the problem, in particular the in the context of the implementation of this Directive. We are also very grateful that an agreement has been reached here that our proposals could be taken into account, because issues of the financial market play a role not only in Austria but, of course, internationally. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The MiFID Directive has improved investor protection across Europe. The European Financial Markets Directive, on the one hand, is an important element of a stronger investor protection, which can provide an important impetus for strengthening investor confidence in financial markets and, on the other hand, creates the conditions for strengthening the stability and competitiveness of companies, for example through appropriate self-funding. We therefore agree. Nevertheless, allow me to make a few more suggestions on this bill! – As a consumer protectionist in recent years, I have repeatedly faced investor scandals, with the WEB scandal. I signed the second fine just 18 years ago. We were confronted with the AMIS scandal. Also in Germany there are ongoing investor scandals, for example at the Göttingen Group with 170 arrest warrants, or I only remember the large investor scandal, the German and Austrian Turks, which have been defeated by Islam holdings, which have been deprived of over €5 billion – funds that have disappeared in the ranks of the current Turkish government party. I therefore believe that we must consider how to evaluate investor protection provisions. I am thinking, for example, of the provisions in the Capital Market Act, where we also need to think about how to adapt to the ABGB, how to handle liability issues also for ease of negligence, or questions of limitation and burden of proof. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We see the first correct step towards investor protection with the Securities Supervisory Act 2007. From our point of view, further, perhaps even in the course of the reform of financial market supervision, must be done. I hope that we can reach an agreement here too.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e17518	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e17539	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! The intention of the MiFID, the EU Directive, which will bring about the harmonisation of a highly complex and comprehensive system of services and financial instruments is very welcome. This is particularly true in the light of the fact that we discussed earlier today about the AMIS scandal, which has shown very clearly how necessary it is to improve investor protection and investor protection in this country. If I mention the example of AMIS, I would not like to mention that, although this Securities Supervision Act is a correct step in the right direction and also an important step in that direction, I would like to point out that today we have an investor compensation – which I have already talked about this morning – which is urgently to be reformed. That is to say, with this law it is not done, there are further steps necessary to avoid the fact that in future we will again have a scandal in the area of financial services, which leaves behind 10,000 people in Austria, with a damage volume of more than €100 million. Transparency and the creation of trust are important, and we will therefore agree to this enhanced investor protection and the law and also the amendment proposal. But there are two things I would like to discuss here. One thing is: The law alone will not do anything – like the new regulation of financial market supervision, which we have seen in the Banking Investigation Committee, has not yet led us to have a functioning financial market supervision in our country – but it will be crucial how this law will be implemented. Because what good is the best securities supervision law for us, what benefits do we benefit from the best financial market surveillance, a financial fire brigade that will not become active when the hat burns? In my view, from the point of view of consumer protection, there are still a number of improvements that I would like to address in the future and which I have already addressed in committee. The Secretary of State has been very positive about this, but there has been no response. In the review process, it was true that many of the proposals that have come from the economy have been taken into account; Requests presented on the part of consumer protection have not been taken into account, or only in very few cases, by the Federal Chamber of Labour. In my view, it would be necessary to provide for a mandatory delivery of all relevant documents and to provide for improved access to investor documentation. – that out of the transparency bid. The second point concerns the so-called derivative products – these are financial instruments that are highly complex; they are regulated by § 1 Z 6. For such transactions, which are also viewed by only a few in the banking sector and where speculations have occurred in the case of Hypo Alpe-Adria, because here there is speculation with instruments that are very complicated, it is necessary to take additional steps from the point of view of consumer protection. And although I would imagine that either such transactions, such financial instruments can no longer be concluded in the context of indirect doorstep transactions – that is the one variant; or, the other variant, which I would like better, would be a general ban on such transactions or, as it were, even better, a right of withdrawal. Another point I would like to address here is the reverse of evidence. The burden of proof should be transferred from investors and small investors to investment services in many respects, because they are much better able to present the situation than small investors can. Again: I very much regret that these are very important suggestions for consumers that could have strengthened confidence in the securities instruments and the entire financial market. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e17594	The next speaker is Mr Zanger. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e17616	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! We also, in principle, welcome the amendments to the Securities Supervisory Act, but only because of the changes in consumer protection, or because it deals with consumer protection. There are some very critical comments: In principle, it should be noted that the Commission has failed to achieve its objectives by adopting the MiFID Directive, which is now to be implemented by the new WAG. Harmonisation of the rules on the provision of investment services within the European Community will not be achieved. To this end, the Directive offers national legislators too many exceptions, which are also used and lead to a very different transposition. The procedure which has already been referred to, the Lamfalussy procedure, is highly complicated and is difficult in several respects. The invitation to market participants to participate in the directive-making process in a consultation procedure could practically only be perceived by companies that were large enough and could afford to do so, also in financial terms. The enormous amount of documentation produced in this procedure is not intended to promote clarity. For example, the impact of files adopted only for the prospectus directive is half a meter high. The draft Securities Supervisory Act has to comply with the requirements that have been cast into a directive as a result of a criticised procedure. However, whether the scope left to the legislator was used in a meaningful way may be questioned. The law follows the principle: A lot of information to the customer! – I would like to doubt whether this will achieve the desired transparency. It would have been better, better information, but not too much. The quantity will no longer be manageable by the customer. This can already be seen from the experience gained from ongoing investor advisory processes, where customers are constantly presenting that they may have received information, but that it has been so much that relevant information actually goes down. The question is whether the average Austrian customer, who wants to eliminate his final Swiss franc credit by saving in investment certificates, needs to know which execution sites are applicable here, according to which criteria these execution sites are chosen and how the criteria are weighted. That is, I think, special information that is not relevant to the customer and that goes by. However, I would also like to draw attention from my own experience to a field of tension in which our bank staff are mainly located, namely the Voltagesfeld Bank Advisor and Customer. Due to the concentrations of small institutions in current financial magnates, all of which are subject to the shareholder's value, there is a high pressure on bank employees, especially on the switch, who get immeasurable targets which they can only achieve very, very difficult. If we still create an additional huge administrative effort, it will become more difficult and more critical for these people, even in terms of the quality of advice. The whole thing – and I am grateful to Mr Rossmann for addressing it – is happening in history with the derivatives. It is, as he has said, really a very, very complicated field of financing – or even speculation in truth. It goes so far that simple private customers who receive foreign currency credits are already sold with such interest caps or swaps as they are called, which are standardized but nevertheless have a high risk. We should look – and above all the works councils and the trade union – at a little bit that colleagues in the banks are not exposed to this pressure, which they would not have to subject themselves to, but that is simply coming from above and that one can no longer avoid, and one can relieve them a little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e17676	The next speaker is Mr Bucher. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e17697	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the main content of this EU Directive, the MiFID Directive has already been given an extensive opinion by my previous speakers. I would just like to mention two points, especially as the knowledge of securities is a very special knowledge and requires some advance knowledge. One thing needs to be taken into account, namely that we have different supervisory qualities within the European Community, as far as the securities sector is concerned, and that I use Austria – despite the criticism in the morning as far as the FMA is concerned – for Austria to carry out a high-quality supervisory activity that cannot be expected from all EU Member States. One thing, however, is also at the heart of the concerns that concession allocations for securities transactions and for the stocking of securities products across the EU can be approved and is therefore also to be feared that securities in our markets that have not been tested as carefully as we foresee in Austria. A warning example, therefore, is to be taken into account here too. The second is that with the increased investor protection and especially with the test seal, the FMA cannot be guaranteed, so to speak, that we say: Securities transactions are totally riskless. You too, "Jacky" Maier, always pointed out this as a consumer protection expert. We must not make the mistake of saying that securities transactions are quite normal interest transactions and do not involve any risk. We should also warn that there is a residual risk or even a high risk. These are two points which we must not forget, despite the euphoria of this law, which has been waiting here in our House for a few months.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e17738	Mr Secretary of State Dr. Matznetter spoke from the government bank. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e17759	Mr President. High house! As much as the item on the agenda is apparently more technical, it is one that will affect hundreds of thousands of people from the depth of change over the next few years. It is a point that will in fact increasingly affect the saving and investment behaviour of people. And it is a matter of which the Member States were in many respects not the happiest of all that they had to do now to implement it. I should like to remind you that the underlying directive already dates back to 2004, and almost all Member States have taken a very long time to implement this directive. In fact, she should have been since 1. This year it will be in force in November of this year, so that it can also take place in the actual business as a whole. After Austria failed to implement implementation by February, the EU Commission issued a letter of formal notice, and we were forced to adopt the necessary directives in a relatively short time. However, I would like to stress on the point that the Federal Ministry of Finance has made a real effort to involve in the implementation of this Directive in the positive procedure of negotiations here in the House with Basel II in good time all the groups involved – and I stress in place: including consumer protection – in the appropriate form. It is true, however, that we learn to do so every day, especially in this area, and that consumer protection in particular has an intensive field of activity, namely from the events which are assigned to it, to draw appropriate conclusions to the changes. I agree with what my previous speakers said about the regulation itself: We create a single market for financial services; we increase transparency in this area, especially through a wide range of information bids; we strengthen the possibility of supervision in the field of investment services companies, also in accordance with their control tasks, and thus ultimately increase the level of protection for consumers. However, I would also like to give an explanation of the rather extensive amendment which is at the same time on the agenda today. Referring to what I said before, namely the late in-force implementation of the directive, the problem for the whole industry is that the period up to the final in-force paces at the end of the year for the preparation – one only has to imagine: Documents, customer folders, computer programs! – a very, very short one. As a result, the need for all economic operators to know immediately how the directives are to be applied has been expressed by the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, which is why it has been requested that the part to be adopted by the FMA be regulated accordingly. I also ask for an understanding of the fact that this point comes as an amendment to the second reading, but I expressly thank you for the fair procedure for all Members, as I believe, that the financial committee had already distributed substantial parts of the amendment proposal last week, so that this extensive request could be addressed accordingly. I am also pleased that some of the points that have been raised in the meantime on consumer protection have also been included in the amendment. On the other hand, I should like to make a brief comment on item 4 which is dealt with in one. The Novelle Insurance Supervisory Act is also a transposition of the EU Directive. It essentially establishes easier access for reinsurance undertakings. We have used this innovation of the WAG to make changes with a view to Solvency II regulations by moving our insurance provisions towards the future legal base: Improvements in the guarantee funds, clearer and stricter rules for trustees and, above all, more options for FMAs to carry out appropriate consumer protection activities. So many today have, of course, criticized the FMA in the discussion, one must also be aware that the FMA can always proceed according to the laws. It has the difficulty, if, for example, one acts as an insurer, but is not allowed for the distribution of insurance services, that it has not been able to warn the public of such activities so far. This is only an example of the fact that we also use each of these changes based on decline to achieve improvements. In this sense, I think, it seems to be only a small point from the information content, but a big step in the area of financial services. I expressly thank all those involved, including the honourable Member, that we have been able to bring this up to date and that it is possible to decide on it before the summer, otherwise Austria would have become final. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e17816	Next come Mr Deputies That's right. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e17838	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Secretary of State rightly pointed out that it was possible to establish this law in Austria within a short period of time, so that Austria would not become or would have become lazy. However, I wonder what happens to those 24 countries – and now, if we have decided, 23 countries – of the European Union, which have not yet implemented it. So far, there are three that have implemented it: England, Ireland and Romania. I would also be interested in Romanian implementation. If that's what my information is like, then that's not what we're imagining under implementation. – Ladies and gentlemen, so much about equality of competition. Secondly, The treatment of the communities is a painful point in this area – that is to say, openly – because I do not quite understand that it is so much under the motto “They can’t, and that’s too dangerous!” that the federal government and countries are treated differently from the communities. It is interesting that especially in Sweden, municipalities are referred to as regions and, therefore, there is another inequality of treatment in Europe. Thirdly, It might be possible to ask who did the most; which city in Austria, perhaps also which federal country did not just put up with fame. I am quite right for Mr Zanger when he said that if we offer such extensive information, we should be careful not to run a risk that it will become so extensive that it will not be read anymore and therefore miss the goal. That is why we should also make clear information. I'm sure that's important. I also confirm what Mr Bucher said today, namely that, despite all the difficulties, there is excellent supervision in Austria. There's nothing to add to that. If we still want to improve this supervision, we will have to think of something different when paying. Under the official's schedule, we will not be able to keep those professionals who are necessary in this area, because the insurance companies and the banks will have the best powers, because they offer even more prospects and opportunities. Maybe at the address of all: As long as the Austrian under the title, he can save taxes or gain something, take any risk, a still so good supervision and such a good directive will not prevent all that is sometimes expected under too much greed.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e17880	The next speaker is Mr Dkfm. Dr. Bauer. Also 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e17901	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! We are implementing an EU directive. I think it is also very time-consuming, but the harmonisation of the services sector is far from being achieved, but there will still have to be many measures. This is an aspect that needs to be considered. I'm thinking about the private equity or hedge funds. There is also the need for a European regulation to take place at some point. Above all, the lack lies in the so-called framework, in implementation, as Mr Auer has said. We should consider how we can fulfil the first quality, and secondly, although Mr Bucher said that we are so excellent in Austria, in view of AMIS and in view of the debate this morning: We are not bad, but we also have our problems. If I look at how the liability capital is developed, I can only say: Few would benefit if it gets beating. I think, in general, we've always lived after this: We have an AeW – and in fact we know that it is more like a fig leaf, but it does not have a potent capital base to be able to satisfy the injured, like AMIS – the more than €100 million or perhaps up to €200 million, which will show up next year. This is the real problem of all these investment forms, that everyone as a winner “is going in”. It has already been called this casino capitalism today. In fact, you go to the casino with your own money. The difference in casino capitalism is that the money of the others is playful there! That is why it must be handled so carefully. I am also very glad that we have decided today that we will make this supervision and the regulations of the financial market supervision conditions very careful. I am convinced that a lot of work will be done over the summer and that we will be able to come to the public in the autumn with a good concept that is sustainable. However, what I would like to mention is that there is a risk that, for example, the medium-sized banks may even have structural adjustment through this scheme. They are more likely to enter the area of the franchising bank. The small banks are less concerned with this, and then there could also be a cleaning which does not revive competition. I wanted to add that because I believe it is an important matter that cannot be described in such a way that everyone says it is too difficult for us to understand, so we do not discuss it in the Austrian Parliament. I have not seen the appropriate preparations. It is always noted that: ==References== We need it on November; we therefore decide quickly! But there was no preliminary period in the discussion. And it will be the same with regard to solvency II – I have already mentioned in March – and you will wait and then say: Fast adjustment, and most people don't understand anyway. A law, which is adopted here, is to be understood by every Member and included in it in such a way that he can understand it – and we are far away from it.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e17962	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Ikrath. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e17983	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We agree on the MiFID objective. With regard to implementation, it is possible to question how successful it has been. In Brussels, MiFID is now known as the "Misfit" in the Jargon. We have tried in Austria to implement the directive as effectively as possible. A tendency to include far-reaching consumer protection schemes that are more likely to lead to consumer disinformation has already been implemented. It is also the fact that the credit industry and the securities service providers are at least burdened with a total of €160 million and annual operating expenses of € 45 million – that is, no “Lapperl”! I believe that we have nevertheless succeeded in making a very practical and appropriate implementation in this context. In particular, the balance between the interests of the credit industry and consumer protection is acceptable, and we have also provided assistance to small financial services providers, which should enable them to deal with the burdens in a way. In order to optimise this issue, I would now like to make the following amendment by Mr Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues: I would like to briefly describe it in the main points. Most of the amendment is in line with the fact that parts of the Implementing Directive, for which a regulation of the FMA was provided for in the Government template, are now regulated by law. The Secretary of State has already said that this should take account of the need for the earliest possible legal certainty and facilitate preparation for the new legal situation for investment service providers and the credit economy. Furthermore, we have included additional, very reasonable and legitimate consumer protection issues. And last but not least, transitional provisions are laid down which ensure a reasonable period of time for the written establishment of withdrawal agreements. This is essential in particular for the decentralised sectors and the financial close-up suppliers. I assume that we will also decide on the amendment together.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e18038	Mr Magistrate. Ikrath's amendment is sufficiently supported, is under negotiation and is distributed because of its specific scope. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e18761	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, 2 minutes welcome. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e18782	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Two templates are under negotiation. On the one hand, the Securities Supervisory Act regulates financial instruments and equity adjustment of investment firms and credit institutions according to European standards. Investment services are thus harmonised across Europe and investor protection is improved. At the same time, this also means higher requirements for risk management and higher requirements for internal revision. Adjustments will also mean additional costs for credit institutions, but also for supervision, additional costs, which are justified in the interest of more security. Another European adjustment is made by the implementation of the Insurance Directive through the VAG. In order to improve the international competitiveness of European reinsurers, the legislation on reinsurance business is largely aligned with the rules on direct insurance. In this way, the provisions on authorisation and concession are harmonised and investment rules for reinsurance companies are introduced. In the case of insurance for domestic holdings, the reinsurance undertaking established in a third country shall be subject to the provisions of the VAG. In addition, the amendment to the amendment makes the insurance supervision law of uniform, closed and consistent, which has become systematic and untimely inconsistencies following numerous changes. However, all these new arrangements will only be useful if the financial market supervision system is reformed accordingly. We have already had the opportunity to discuss this adequately today. I also believe that the Committee of Inquiry has drawn up sufficient proposals. Stays only to hope that these findings can be very quickly incorporated into the reform work. We need a powerful, efficient supervisory authority for Austrian banks and insurance companies, especially in the interest of the many small savers we would like to support.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e18824	Next, Mrs Mag. Muzzle on the floor. Also 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e18846	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This system, harmonised within the European Union, now makes it possible to provide investors or customers within the Community with a very high level of protection and, at the same time, to grant uniform conditions of exercise. However, the decision-making must not leave us away from the responsibility – and the first item on the agenda today has shown very clearly how important it is to exercise control – to also develop a supervisory law that also has teeth to avoid cases; how they have been treated in the Financial Market Supervision Audit Committee once and for all. 16 000 investors are 16 000 single-chicks, and we must not lose sight of them either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e18873	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Gartlehner. Also 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e18894	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! It is, of course, necessary for this harmonisation to progress within the European Union that: Activities are set up – as we hear, in different qualities in the individual states, but we are at the beginning of this development. One problem is that although we are always talking about risk capital, we need more risk capital to finance risky innovations, but at the same time we do not want risk capital on the consumer side. It's trying to find this difficult balance here. I think the effort has been made here, and I am very grateful to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance for his efforts to become active here quickly so that we can start on time. In general, Basel II is not really competitive with US GAAP, even in the financial services sector, and there is an increasing number of migration activities for funding from the Basel II area, because SMEs are not being financed here in part, but in other economic areas this is the case. In this sense, you should also consider that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e18934	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall therefore vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. We come to the vote on the draft federal law which amends a federal law on the supervision of investment services as well as the Banking Act, the Stock Exchange Act, the Investment Fund Act, the Capital Market Act, the Financial Market Supervisory Authority Act, the Consumer Protection Act and the Commercial Regulations, including title and receipt in 143 of the Supplements. I'm sorry, Dr. Stummvoll, Mag. Mr Maier, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. As only this one request was made, I leave immediately on the draft law and the title and receipt in 143 of the supplements as amended by the amendment tabled by Dr. Stummvoll, Mag. Johann Maier, colleagues. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign of acknowledgment. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That is also unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall vote on the draft VAG-Novelle 2007 together with title and receipt in 128 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is also unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That's unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[18:38:09]] 5. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (96, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Motor Vehicle Tax Act 1992 – Motor Vehicle Tax Act Novelle 2007 (KfzStG-Novelle 2007) (179 d.b.) 6. Point Report and request of the Financial Committee on the draft federal law amending the Novag Act of 1991 (180 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e19028	We now come to points 5 and 6 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e19055	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! First of all, to halve the car tax. While the increase of the truck toll during the budgetary negotiations for the 2007 and 2008 budgets was a step in the right direction, this step, the halving of the car tax, is the exact opposite. From the point of view of cost-truth, this must be described as a step in the wrong direction. As far as the truck toll was concerned, even in spring one had no courage to go a step further, which would have been necessary to introduce a comprehensive truck toll in Austria. I believe that this halving of the car tax, which will at least result in a loss of €70 million, is a completely false signal. The railway moat is well known to rise in the next few years. We know that this was agreed with the recasting of the framework conditions for the ÖBB. On the other hand, with the halving of the car tax, the costs for domestic freighters are reduced. Under these conditions, of course, the question arises of how to shift heavy traffic from road to rail. On the contrary, a tax race is launched here within the EU with the reduction of the car tax. I therefore believe that this measure can only be referred to as a kneefall in front of the Austrian craft lobby. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The SPÖ's position is really incomprehensible to me – when the SPÖ was still in opposition, it represented exactly the opposite position. What change of mind has occurred? Is the SPÖ now also a party that wants to support the Frächterlobby? How do I interpret that? We will reject this halving of the car tax. When we discuss climate change, it turns out once again that the government only gives lip confessions – and not anymore. Climate protection is something that takes place in Sunday's speeches, but not in political work. [[Call at the ÖVP: by the Greens!]] – With the Greens – yes, yes, yes! We've been drumming this for many years. However, its party is in reality taking few measures, and the measure that is now being put in place here is completely cross-crossed by traffic and climate policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For the standard consumption levy. Apart from the fact that this has been an §-27 application, in which there is no link between the car tax, where the trucks are concerned, and the NoVA, which concerns the cars, there are a number of reasons why we will also reject this request. We will therefore reject it because, in principle, it would be necessary before the extension of laws, first of all, to make an evaluation. Finally, one would like to know why one makes an extension. I made myself a little smart, and if you make yourself smart, it turns out that 80 percent of all cars already have a filter installed today. [[State Secretary Dr. Matznetter: New car!]] That means nothing but that this action can essentially be considered completed. I therefore do not understand what an extension of the support for the diesel particle filter should be. Again, I can only interpret this measure as a kneefall – this time not in front of the freighter lobby, but in front of the car dealers. One last point: If something was already done in the NOVA, then the necessary and climate-politically only right measure would have been to lift the cover for the big cars, the so-called SUVs, for these CO2 slots and progressively shape the NoVA. However, it is far and wide not a trace, but it would have been a climate-political step forward. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e19117	The next speaker is Mr Steindl. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e19139	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Mr Rossmann, you certainly know that the Austrian transport industry also needs harmonised framework conditions in order to be able to compete in European competition. That is why we have decided to reduce the truck tax so that at the same time we have increased road pricing, as have the mineral oil tax. So this is not a gift to the Früchterlobby, but simply a really important compensation measure. It must also be said that perhaps an ecological component should still be introduced into the tax system, since, as I believe, there is a very big difference in the emissions of pollutants, especially in the Euro-0 to Euro-5 engines. The difference between Euro 0 and Euro 5 is ultimately more than 50 percent. Therefore, we will continue to demand this ecological variant from the economy. I believe that a strongly growing economy, as we have in Austria, needs a correspondingly competitive transport economy to exchange freight and goods transport. I cannot understand your attitude towards re-use of the diesel particle filter at all, because it is ultimately an important contribution to the environment that environmentally friendly vehicles penetrate the market. I do not understand the view of the Greens at all. You probably do not know that a vehicle with a correspondingly effective diesel particle filter costs about € 1,000 more than a conventional vehicle. This 300-€ bonus is therefore an important measure. To this end, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e19202	The amendment tabled by Mr Steindl is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e19248	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e19270	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the kneeling before the climate-damaging bodies of this Republic, this double kneeling in the form of two fiscal measures to be decided now, has already been clearly explained in its technical and factual dimension. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Mr President, I am certainly in favour of the fact that our transport industry is competitive and that it also gains terrain, especially in the field of logistics in the transport of goods on the rails. That's where I'm on your side. The fine distribution is without further delay reserved for the truck. Here we are quite on our way to enforce Euro 5, a lower class of pollutant. That is a good thing. Only that you now call the reduction in the car tax for trucks the competition measure number one, I can't quite understand that. I know it's hard in this business. I know that individual entrepreneurs from our neighbouring eastern countries often have no social standards or little. But that does not justify the fact that we reduce the tax burden for trucks, where these vehicles use the infrastructure road at least by a 13 000 compartment more than cars, and the owners of cars also pay a motor insurance tax and when buying the NoVA. But the use of the infrastructure road is simply a multiple increase by the truck, and this also warrants a higher tax burden by the car tax. Of course, we can go on – this is our proposal, which my colleague Bruno Rossmann has clearly articulated here – not only on the motorway, not only on the highway for trucks, but also on a really cross-sectional road. And there is a coherent approach, there are clear calculations, there is an EU-wide procedure. And if we do this across the board, then we could discuss whether, in view of this toll, the competitors from the neighbouring countries in particular would have to do the same – this toll would have to pay for all those who use our road system – something changes as it looks. But now I think it is particularly preferable in the low-ranking road system of the trucks. Mr. State Secretary Matznetter, I do not understand that you do not still make certain affinitys to workers' chamber or to people from social democracy who work in this area visible in your current role in tax legislation. Maybe we should be able to strengthen your original backbone a little bit more. But now to another aspect, to the NoVA. It is absolutely irrational and fiscal in no way comprehensible that we have a cover at the NoVA and that we are not only burdening the vehicles that make us the most of the problems, even in terms of road safety, not only in terms of pollution, not just of space consumption, not just of volume, that we are not putting these SUVs, these off-road vehicles, on top of the tax, although they really do, what the cost situation is coming, more on our taxpayers than external costs, on the environmental costs et cetera. I don't understand at all. They allow me because we are now discussing in the middle of the centre of Vienna: If you look at the road, you will also come to the view that it is completely incomprehensible that even in Vienna these SUV vehicles clearly shape the road image and sometimes endanger us as pedestrians or cyclists. Mr Lunacek and I share this fate: These SUVs are increasingly dangerous with their bump bars approaching the very fragile and somehow very delicate protective sheets. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Tell me you're on the wheel! Nobody knows!]] You now understand my personal access to this issue, that in the case of the NOVA these privileges apply to vehicles that have nothing in themselves to look for on these roads because they are created for other conditions. So, this was now a major plea for asserting the cost-truth in transport and climate relevance in the transport sector tax. You will get a detailed concept from us. Mr. State Secretary Matznetter, I hope that you will not only look into it, but also that you will paint important positions and recoup these important points from our concept of NoVA and also include car taxation in small government templates that improve the situation compared to what we now decide to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e19314	The next speaker is Mr Köfer. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e19336	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! The objectives now clearly adopt stronger contours in the various areas. The forthcoming amendment to the Motor Tax Act, which has been sufficiently discussed, is being implemented in order to make the domestic transport industry more competitive. However, it also discussed in detail the issue of strengthening the local fleeters and freight forwarders and proposed halving. On the one hand, this may certainly be a very useful measure for the economy and will lead to a significant increase in the number of employees, some 80 000, but on the other hand will also improve the competitive situation of the 10,000 transport companies at the Austrian economic location. What is less positive about this is that the resultant loss of tax revenue with additional revenue on the toll and on the mineral oil tax is to be eroded – that is the one side. On the other hand, the halving of taxes also has a negative effect, especially when it concerns the incomes of the countries and, above all, the municipalities. The federal government loses €70 million in 2008 and €70 million in the following years, which may be still economically acceptable for the federal government, but not for the municipalities that have a negative balance to be expected here with €8 million in financial compensation. What one's joy is the other's suffering, so is in this case. Nor can I support the fact that these additional incomes are to be financed primarily by tolls and mineral oil tax. This is primarily true of my home region of Upper Carinthia. There are a lot of people who need to commute and commute daily. What bothers me a little bit about this is that more revenue is not going back to the budget, where it will benefit from strengthening the community's incomes, but rather the ASFINAG, which, in part, can continue to finance its very chaotic road programme. For this reason, I would remind you that the majority of Austrian communities have long been unable to contribute any financial contribution models from the federal government, as well as the countries in whatever proportion.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e19384	Mr Secretary of State Dr. Matznetter spoke from the government bank. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e19405	Mr President. High house! If the BZÖ perhaps dissolves the full members' assembly, we can devote ourselves to the subject. [[BZÖ Members of Parliament talk to each other]] Unfortunately, Mrs. Dr. Moser did not hand over her concept to me, otherwise, of course, I could find out on the basis of this: [[Abg. Dr. Moser: War still!]] We can't do this to you, Mrs. Doctor! On the one hand, the Greens have been demanding for a long time: away with standing, fixed fees and burden according to the extent of the damage to the environment or after the consumption of resources. - That's exactly what we do! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] The new Federal Government has increased toll for trucks by 4.2 cents and decided to halve the car tax for trucks in the same package. Why? – Because we want those companies that operate approved trucks in Austria to be subject to the local rules on driving and the accuracy of the investigation and thus have a better fleet with lower emissions in relation to other countries of the European Union. We are promoting these companies because we want them to sign up for trucks in Austria. We encourage, if you want to, the approval here and evenly raise a much higher volume over the driving power dependent toll. We do what the Greens have long called for. If you hand over your concept to me, Mrs. Moser, I may even find the exact passage of which we implement at least in an essential part. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I'll just stay with the Greens and Mr Rossmann: I don't understand you in connection with the diesel particle filter. First of all, a small actual correction: It is 80 percent of new registrations with particle filters, but of course not yet the total number of diesel vehicles. By extending the award of a bonus, we help the owners of old diesel vehicles to come to a new purchase without particle filters. We contribute to further increasing the share of diesel vehicles with particulate filters. We're working against the fine dust load. I therefore do not understand that the Green Group cannot support such a procedure. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Mr Westenthaler has announced that the General Assembly of the BZÖ will end. I want to take advantage of this opportunity and finish my speech – we continue to speak afterwards. [[Detonatative condolences of the Abg. Ing. Westenthal]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e19467	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e19488	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I don't know, the BZÖ's group of members is now back in the phone cell, right? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: An old gag – and not good!]] I don't understand the connection. Content: Mr State Secretary, you are of course right if you say: Given the volume of output or about the same level, each variable system is actually closer to ecological thought, and fixed costs are falling. So far, so good; They have also brought other arguments. At the same time, however, it is at least as correct – and we place greater weight on it – that the contribution and revenue from the truck traffic, measured by the damage it causes, is minimal, is just a third once; there are different calculations, but that does not in principle improve. That is to say, truck transport as a whole, especially transiting, is the largest cross-subsidisation recipient, which is in addition to nuclear energy! It's just like that! And you of the ÖVP, if you are still here, are always talking to us about the market economy? - That's the problem. As a small country, of course, we cannot manage everything autonomously, that is true, but the step must go in the direction that we go down in those charges, where we have unnecessaryly high loads and the damage to them, namely to the wage-related taxes – which actually affects the workplace situation in Austria – and must remain above the environmental components of the tax system. Now, of course, Matznetter's a little right when he says: Within the modest output there is a variable system that is better. – That’s right, but it’s all in a very modest small frame. And overall, the level of truck taxation – listen to colleagues Haberzettl, he knows better!, he looks understanding – the problem. There is no reason at all to “do downdo away ” with the truck. Let's stick to a few basic principles: Let us reduce the wage-related taxes, and let us not disaster the ecological components in the tax system. - That's so simple. Before that comes up to you, we'll probably have to make the next choice, maybe we'll explain it to you back there.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e19525	The next speaker is Mr Zanger. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e19546	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Don't worry, I won't take advantage of my 8 minutes, Mr Themessl would like to talk for a quarter of an hour. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] We agree, of course, to halve the car tax for trucks, but we only see it as a first step. We are basically for the complete abolition. We also agree to the extension of the support for the installation of diesel particle filters to another year. But we would welcome it if this were not only the case for used vehicles, but also for new ones. But at least a valuable step in the sense of our environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e19580	The next item is the report by Mr Bucher, with 2 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e19603	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of the budget debate, we have already pointed out that we are demanding a halvion of the car tax for trucks, which is why this proposal for a law meets us. However, what we also call for is that in the future we will insert an ecologisation variant into the calculation of the car tax, perhaps from the cost calculation to a pollutant calculation. This would come closer to the environmental idea and the idea of climate protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e19627	The next item is Mrs Lentsch's speech. Also two minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e19649	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am pleased that we are again turning to the future with the Motor Tax Act Novelle, because the past has already been discussed too much. With this innovation we ensure the competitiveness of the local transport industry, because we halve the car tax from July 2007. I think this measure is important and correct, even if it means less revenue in the short term. The experts expect up to €18 million less for 2007. But there is really no alternative to that, ladies and gentlemen, because our farmers have been really under pressure by raising the oil tax, by increasing the toll and by the low-cost competition from the Eastern States. That is why we need to counter it, otherwise we are in danger of breaking away from an entire industry. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Steindl.]] With the present motor vehicle tax law Novelle – it should welcome it quietly – we ensure that the Austrian transport industry is not disadvantaged against foreign countries. This not only ensures jobs in Austria, but also the economic location of Austria. This is a fact that should also be aware of the Greens. That is why my party, the Austrian People's Party, will be happy to vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e19691	As the next speaker, Mrs Sylvia Seiler is speaking. Also two minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e19715	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We now have a very encouraging item on the agenda: We can, with our agreement here in plenary, provide a discharge for the domestic economy. With the increase of mineral oil tax on petrol and diesel from 1. On 1 July 2007, an ecological emphasis was set on the use of these new revenue, which was continued with the simultaneous increase in the toll of the truck. With the Motor Vehicle Tax Act Novelle 2007 for motor vehicles and trailers, each with a maximum permissible total weight of more than 3.5 tonnes, an existing disadvantage for the competitiveness of Austrian transport companies towards the international transport industry is ended. The level of vehicle tax rates for vehicles and trailers is reduced to half. This is the The reduction is also in line with the minimum rates of the EU Directive on the collection of charges for the use of certain roads by heavy commercial vehicles. There will therefore be an imbalance of increases for the domestic transport industry with a reduction in the tax on motor vehicles from 1. It was opposed in July. The bonus of €300 for the installation of particle filters in diesel vehicles is extended by another year and in turn represents a contribution to environmental protection. Of course, the reduction of the car tax has an impact on the tax revenue. In 2007, a total of €18 million is expected. Of these, 13 million are for the federal government, 3 million for countries and 2 million for communities. In 2008 a minimum of €70 million is expected. With the innovation of the car tax, we set a clear and correct signal today towards the transport industry and economic location Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e19758	The next speaker was Mr Themessl. The clock is set to 8 minutes, do you want to keep it that way?
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e19789	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Before one: We will agree to the halving of the car tax on trucks, but one thing I also say to you: We agree only because this is a minor improvement in the current state of affairs. What surprises me, however, is that my predecessors of red and black come out of here and claim that this is a huge relief from the domestic economy. – I do not think you know the numbers from the domestic transport industry! I give Mrs Moser to the Greens in so far as she said that the transport industry is having a hard time, she already knows. And now she has it even harder, because the Greens want to go the opposite way from us. Mrs Moser, do you know that the transport industry in Austria employs over 110 000 employees? There are public transport, public transport and so on, which is purely the transport industry, freight forwards, bus operators and such businesses. Mr. State Secretary Matznetter claimed in the Subcommittee that this reduction in the car tax for trucks to half is related to the increase in mineral oil tax and truck toll. That's what I'm giving him. At the time, he also meant that the increase in mineral oil tax and truck toll were primarily introduced to encourage foreign freighters, the entire transit traffic through Austria, to co-finance and maintain the infrastructure in Austria and to release additional resources for environmental protection. This is a very commendable thought, which I can understand. Thank you for burdening the Austrian fishermen with this, of course, huge, there is now a small sugar with the halving of the car tax. On the facts: Austria has up to now the highest car tax in all of Europe. This goes for the largest trucks up to €2 942 per year. The burden of the tractors by the mineral oil tax and the truck toll – there are the latest calculations from the host industry. The Board of Directors, Department of Transport, is between €4,000 and €5,000 per lorry per year with average truck performance. That means you'll return these tailors per truck about €1 400. The load that remains lies in a range of between 2 500 and 3 500 €. - Thank you! The transport industry will be very grateful to you. Then I'll tell you something: The transport industry has already been heavily burdened in recent years. Do you know that between 2002 and 2005 the number of insolvencys in the transport sector increased by 60 percent? Do you also know that in the meantime a quarter of all the trucks that have Austrian owners are registered abroad? The Austrian State loses around €50,000 per truck in taxes and insurance contributions per year. According to the study of the Vienna University of Economics, this means that we are in danger of losing approximately 10,000 to 12,000 jobs by the end of 2008. And that's what you're buying! What surprises me is that the Economic Union does not cry out here, because they are responsible for everyone anyway, they feel at least that way, but do nothing here. Obviously there are no large companies in the transport sector in Austria, otherwise they would operate lobbyism here, and then perhaps the little one would have something of it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I say one thing: We clearly demand a rethinking of you in this area, because you must not forget one thing: If Austrian trucks have to live per truck with an additional burden of approximately €3,000 per year, they must pass on these costs, i.e. the cost of transport, which makes every article of daily needs expensive. The inflation rate you have targeted will not last because the prices are rising – and the greens would be the first to cry when the food becomes more expensive in every food market. This is the Quintessence of this procedure, the You chose here. We suggest that you reduce the car tax on the EU average, that is €900 a year, and in modern and low-pollutant trucks, the collection of the car tax completely waives. This would have the advantage that the fishermen would have stopped buying the latest low-pollutant trucks, that the trucks already registered abroad would return to Austria, which would mean additional revenue both for the state and for the insurance industry and therefore for the state. If you did, you would have taken a path that would also be more common for the economy and the transport industry, and you might have done something for small and medium-sized enterprises. And if the blacks don't do it, Secretary of State, then I hope the reds will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e19860	The next speaker was Mrs Stadler. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e19881	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! From July, transport operators will pay more on Austria's motorways and highways: The truck toll is increased by 4.2 cents on average. That is why we will decide today to compensate for the halving of the car tax and thus achieve a discharge of our local transporters. It is not only the competitiveness of the domestic transport industry, it is a measure which not only affects the competitiveness of the transport sector. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. And this strengthening also ensures that jobs are safeguarded; we have heard the figures from the previous speaker. As Members of the Upper Tyrol, I know that there is hardly an alternative to the truck for the supply in the decentralised area, the supply in the valleys off the main transport axis. And this local supply is carried out exclusively by local companies in this decentralised area. That is why this vehicle tax denunciation is a measure which also benefits consumers in the decentralised area, which is why I very much welcome this innovation.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e19913	There are no further words available to me. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. That is why we are voting separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First we reach the vote on the draft Motor Tax Act Novelle 2007 and the title and receipt in 96 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, also give their approval to the draft law, to a sign on this point. – This has been accepted by the majority at the third reading. We now proceed to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the standard excise duty law, in 180 of the supplements. Mrs Elmar Mayer, Dr. Stummvoll, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment. Since there is only one motion for a resolution, I shall immediately vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 180 of the supplements as amended by the amendment tabled by Mrs Elmar Mayer, Dr. Stummvoll, colleagues. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a sign in this regard. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree at third reading to a sign. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law was also adopted at third reading. [[19:15:41]] 7. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment No 251/A by Mr Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues on A federal law amending the 1981 Export Promotion Act (183 d.b.) 8. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment 252/A by Mr Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the 1981 Export Funding Act (184 d.b.) 9. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (83 e.g._Other Organiser Agreements between the Republic of Austria and New Zealand in the fields of income and wealth taxes, together with Protocol (185, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e20042	We now come to points 7 to 9 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are about to get to the debate. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e20072	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! In a conference organized by the Chamber of Workers Vienna and by the Vienna University of Economics, you, Mr. State Secretary, discussed the topic “Globalisation of the Austrian Economy – Funding Goal or Way to the Basar Economics” on 26 March. This year, with the involvement of all stakeholders, announced its intention to contribute to the improvement of the Austrian export promotion system. Now comes a government template that only provides for an increase in the liability framework in the Export Promotion Act and in the Export Funding Act. [[State Secretary Dr. Matznetter: This is not a government template!]] In view of the debate and the conflicts surrounding the Ilisu dam, this is a great disappointment for those who have constantly pointed out the need for reform in the context of export promotion in the ongoing international debate. I am therefore submitting the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rossmann, Mr Lunacek, Mr Dankert, on export promotion based on sustainable development and environmental, social and human rights standards, and I would like to explain it as a result; it will be distributed. The main concern of a reform must be: As part of the Austrian export guarantees, it is necessary to ensure that projects that have environmental or socially harmful effects in the target country are no longer supported. The example of Ilisu should be one that must no longer happen in the future. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Of course, this includes compliance with workers' protection provisions, which are increasingly being violated, as we are always told by the trade unions, as well as with human rights standards, in particular with regard to the participation of those concerned. Prior to approval of the grants, Austrian companies should be required to comply with OECD guidelines for multinational companies. We consider that a mere continuation of compliance, as provided for in a motion for a resolution, which will also be discussed, is insufficient. Compliance with internationally recognised standards is essential in the area of the environment, in the social field, in the field of labour law, as well as in the area of human rights. Second point: In the case of socially, ecologically and humanly sensitive projects, accompanying monitoring must be provided at the same time as non-compliance with the standards of penalties. This monitoring should, as far as possible, be carried out by an independent institution – not by the contact point, as proposed in the motion for a resolution, which is still to be discussed. Another important point concerns the regular evaluation of the economic impact of export promotion, again from an independent research institute, including the effects on the labour market, to the location. This will be done on a regular basis every four years and a review report will be forwarded to the National Council. In addition, it will be necessary to reach a deadline for the publication of test results in large projects. At present, the results must be submitted 30 days before the guarantee is granted. We consider this deadline too short. I think that here are about 120 days of what it is worth striving for. This is not the motion for a resolution, but something that has been working on me for some time in the context of export promotion is the problem that the Austrian control bank is a commercial bank; it is a bank that is privately owned. However, this bank is currently carrying out inspections, such as environmental audits, and a commercial bank is of course interested in handling as many projects as possible, and there is certainly something to be done about the environmental protection principle. It is therefore necessary to consider whether the examination should not be carried out by an independent institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e20122	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rossmann in his broad outlines has been properly tabled, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e20210	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Stummvoll. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e20231	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The two current novels, namely the Export Promotion Act and the Export Financing Act, have one reason: the incredible success story of our export industry in recent years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition to this, only five data, ladies and gentlemen: First: In the previous year, we broke through the sound wall of 100 billion € export volumes for the first time. Second fact: We now have an export rate of 58 percent of GDP. This means that virtually 60 percent of our prosperity comes from exports. This means that each second job in Austria is created directly or indirectly by export. Third fact: We are in the growth rates of the European Masters Export, have stronger growth rates than other countries. Fourth fact: Exports account for two thirds of our economic growth, which is above average in the EU comparison. That is, of 60 000 jobs, 40 000 are in addition to the export industry. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Fifth fact, ladies and gentlemen: Austria is also a great power in the global comparison as an exporter. We are in seventh place worldwide in exports per capita; we come to Singapore, Hong Kong, Belgium, Holland, Switzerland and Sweden. The world's seventh place in exports per capita! So: A success story of our economy – and this makes the two novels necessary today!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e20295	The next speaker is Mrs Bayr. 2 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e20316	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The export promotion systems have been criticised and pressured worldwide in recent years, because the projects they support have some very serious effects on sociological, environmental, human rights, developmental, cultural and social parameters. Accordingly, in your coalition programme, the two government parties have also agreed on the principle: Social values, such as social compensation, cultural diversity and environmental protection, need to be found more clearly than before in the global economy. In this resolution, we are fulfilling exactly this task of our own. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] It has been said that transparency in respect of compliance with environmental, human rights, development standards and social standards has earned a lot more. The Ilisu dam in the south-east of Turkey has become a rather sad symbol of this, and I am therefore bringing forward the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Petra Bayr, Mr Ing. Hermann Schultes, Josef Bucher, Bernhard Themessl, colleagues on the Krainer/Stummvoll (251/A) request that the Federal Ministry of Finance evaluate the impact of its export promotions in two ways in future: on the one hand, as regards the domestic location, on employment and on economic effects, and on the other, on foreign countries, the target countries, in terms of environmental, social and economic impact. On the other hand, companies listed on the stock exchange will follow the OECD guidelines for multinational companies in the future, which will be ensured. And the other companies that are not listed are to be encouraged to submit to these criteria as well. In addition, international environmental standards such as those of the World Bank or the EBRD should apply equally to both types of environmental standards. It is also intended to make reporting more transparent, to increase the use of plurality in the discussion in the Advisory Board, and to increase the impact of opinions on environmental, human rights, development policy, cultural and social impact in the assessment assessment. This proposal is a compromise, not a question. I would also like to see more transparency in the Council's work. I would also have liked a longer period of time for the opinions of the interested civil society. I would also like to see a stronger participation of stakeholders, more democratic control and more in-depth approach to sustainable development and development criteria. Nevertheless, I believe it is a desirable compromise. I am convinced that he will help prevent cases such as Ilisu in the future, and I am really pleased that all parties will support this request. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e20371	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mrs Bayr has been sufficiently supported, has been presented in its broad outlines and has been properly put in place. Due to the scope, I leave according to § 53 para. 4 LEG this motion for a resolution to be distributed. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e20475	The next item is the speech by Mr Themessl. 8 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e20496	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Shortly before, on the speech by Mr Dkfm. Dr. Stumblingly replicating before he's waving in front of loud lohudley, I'd like to relativize the numbers a little. Although we are good at exporting, we were also good in 2006 and relatively good – thanks to the good world economy. If you had made more of it, we'd be even better. We are almost above the EU average in the export rate of around 44 percent of the gross domestic product. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Where did you get this?]] We are admittedly in the front third. This is also good because the Austrian economy needs it and this is of course also important for securing jobs. We will, of course, give this request our consent because freedom of movement has always been in favour of exports and, of course, we need an efficient and efficient system of export liability and financing. For this reason, you will receive our consent to this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e20533	The next item is the speech by Mr Bucher. 2 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e20554	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the Export Promotion Act: Every second euro of turnover will be implemented in Austria as a result of exports: thanks to the Austrian economy, entrepreneurs and, of course, employees, we can be proud of it, and also because of the framework conditions created by the old German government, so that this export boom can be extended, especially this unprecedented development of the Austrian export economy over recent years. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] We are in favour of extending the liability framework at the Austrian Control Bank from €35 million to €40 million, and we are pleased to give our consent to this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e20587	Mr Matznetter has now spoken. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e20609	Madam President. High house! Once again, it is the Green Group that is causing me to take the floor very briefly. First: We have said, all five groups in common, during the last legislative period, that we want greater transparency in the area of export promotion and export guarantee, greater integration of OECD guidelines and environmental standards. Why Rejoice You do not agree with the fact that the motion for a resolution here actually brings the preliminary work into a stage in which the Federal Ministry of Finance is ready to implement every sensible proposal in endless discussions that you have conducted so far? But allow me to make a statement on the principle. If we provide two aids in the Austrian Control Bank's export support – first guarantees and exchange guarantees to reduce the political risk and risk of default, and secondly, through financing, for which there is a certain amount of interest-rate support in the form of soft loans – then a very small part of it comes from taxpayers' money. In reality, the export insurance, which represents this, is fortunately running today, so that we do not have to use the taxpayer's financial resources in a large way. This instrument is therefore only partially suited to make social change in other parts of the world. What we can do – and that is what we want – is to achieve the highest standards in these procedures. That's a real one. Step in this direction. The Federal Government, together with the preparatory work for the Development Bank, will bring the relevant proposals to this House in the next twelve months, including on the basis of this motion for a resolution. Celebrate it as progress – I think it is one – and now make the guarantees available! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e20651	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Schools. 2 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e20672	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! The fact that we can adopt this law today is a sign that the economy is doing well. And that we can accept this motion for a resolution together, which tells us that we cannot do every business at any price, but we can choose which export business we do, shows us that the economy is doing very well. As long as we do not hinder our businesses, but only point out that they just have to do decent business, we will successfully accompany them along this path for so long. That's our job! – Good and nice summer!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e20700	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Arbitrator. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e20721	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! This proposal will increase export promotion by €10 billion to €45 billion. This, I believe, is an important step, but it is also clear – in conjunction with the resolution that my colleague Bayr has just tabled – that it is a matter of responsibility, not only for the domestic economy, which is responsible for the location and good business, but also for the way in which this export is achieved abroad. This responsibility, of course, is primarily the responsibility of the companies themselves. But it is also a question of the legal framework and the export promotion arrangements. That is why I am very glad that this motion for a resolution has been tabled today, because it also sets out better, clearer rules, so that we take greater account of human rights, environmental, social and cultural interests on the ground, and that this – I am convinced, and this will also make it clear to the economy very quickly if it does not already know – both are served and in reality a win-win situation is created.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e20748	The next item is the speech by Mr Haberzettl. 2 minutes welcome. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e20793	Estimated President! Dear Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! The export promotion system has certainly so far a huge contribution to the development of our exports. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] Nor do I think that the extension or increase of the amount is to be discussed. However, I believe that it would be very important to go a step further than we are now going to do a real legal anchoring of control of the effects on the Austrian labour market. I believe that it would also be fair to do so within the meaning of the Lisbon Strategy for Europe as a whole. I also believe that it would be very important – and even more important to anchor this by law – to house compliance with OECD guidelines, reporting and thus also increasing transparency. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Rossmann.]] But, Mr Rossmann, it is, as already mentioned, a contribution that has been made by consensus, and I think it is the right step in the right direction. I would also like to use this opportunity to wish you a nice holiday. Come on. You're healthy back so we can fight in an old way!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e20845	No one has been reported here in the word. The debate is closed. The rapporteurs do not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we shall vote on the draft federal law amending the Export Promotion Act, together with the title and receipt in 183 of the Supplements. Since the present draft law contains a constitutional provision, I first make a provision within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this bill to give a positive signal. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is accepted by a majority. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Rossmann, colleagues in the field of export promotion based on sustainable development and environmental, social and human rights standards. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bayr, Mr Ing. Schultes, Bucher, Themessl, colleagues on the Krainer/Stummvoll request, 251/A to amend the Export Promotion Act 1981. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who have approved this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 34.) We shall also vote on the draft federal law amending the Export Funding Act, together with the title and receipt in 184 of the Supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who also agree to the draft law at third reading, to give an appropriate sign. – This is again a majority; the draft law is therefore also adopted in third reading. Finally, we shall vote on the request made by the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Agreements with New Zealand in the field of income taxes and assets and the Protocol in 83 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[19:38:57]] 10. Point Report of the Committee on Immunities on the request of the Vienna National Court of Criminal Matters (095 Hv 50/07 d) for approval of the official persecution of the Member of the National Council Dr. Peter Pilz (198 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e20964	We're on our way to the 10th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. No one is reported in the word. We shall therefore immediately vote on the request made by the Immunities Committee in 198 of the Supplements to decide on the following: “In the examination of the request of the Regional Court for Criminal Matters Vienna for approval of the administrative persecution of the Deputies to the National Council Dr. Peter Pilzwird within the meaning of Article 57 paragraph. 3 B-VG notes that there is a link between the criminal action claimed by the private prosecutors and the political activity of the MP to the National Council Dr. Peter Pilz. Therefore, an official persecution of the MP is not approved as National Councillor Dr. Peter Pilz.” [[Abg. Newborn: Where is he?]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this request for an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. The agenda is exhausted. [[19:40:12]] Decision to terminate the ordinary meeting (2007)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e21011	I have the following request: "The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is asked to attend the ordinary meeting of XXIII in 2006/2007. legislative period at the end of the 10th century. to be declared terminated on July 2007.’ I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[19:40:40]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e21041	On the basis of a request from 20 Members, I would like to read the Official Protocol on the decision to terminate the ordinary session so that this part is deemed approved at the end of the meeting, thereby allowing for the immediate completion of the decision: “The following request (Annex C) is made.” – Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to ask for a little more attention in the last few minutes too! [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] Again: ‘The following application (Annex C) is submitted: "The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is asked to attend the ordinary meeting of XXIII in 2006/2007. legislative period at the end of the 10th century. to be declared terminated on July 2007.’ This application, Supplement C, shall be adopted by a majority vote.’ Are there any objections to the version or content of this part of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. The read part of the Official Protocol is therefore valid in accordance with § 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. [[19:41:58]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e21090	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications were tabled 278/A to 308/A. Question No 1199/J to 1324/J has also been received. Finally, questions 16/JPR to 18/JPR have been sent to the President of the National Council. [[19:42:22]] Request according to § 99 para. 2 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e21118	In addition, according to § 99 para., Members of Parliament have Murauer, colleagues and colleagues. 2 A request for the Court of Auditors to carry out an examination of the conduct of an incident. [[19:42:35]] Final address of the President
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-06-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00030_d7e21142	Ladies and gentlemen! As is usual, at the end of the first meeting of the XXIII, I agree. legislative period to address a few words to you. This first meeting of the XXIII. The legislative period has been an exciting time for all of us. I am not going to present to you the figures of the many committee meetings, the many plenary sessions, the many work you have done here in the House since the beginning of this legislative period. Know That You're all the best yourself. However, I would like to mention at this point that the following is important to me – I have always made this very clear to the media in the last few days –: After the end of the meeting, Members do not go to rest for two and a half months, but quite the contrary. We all know that work continues, political work continues, that all of us have earned a few days of vacation, and that work continues in the regions, in the districts, in the municipalities, as well as in the professional sector. We should also make this known to the public. I think we owe it to our own understanding. [[General condolences.]] Moreover, I would also like to stress the same with regard to Parliament's management, because also the Parliamentary Board does not intend to close the gates after you have left the house and only on 17 November. September to open again. On the contrary! I am already with the staff of this House. I would like to thank all of you, on behalf of you, for the staff of the House, for the staff of the parliamentary clubs, for the parliamentary staff! [[General condolences.]] They all did enormous things together! I would also like to stress in this regard that we are working in a parliament in which there are many employees – in total it is 380 in the Parliamentary Directorate; I do not know the exact number of parliamentary staff in the clubs – all of which are all-round artists. We see this much too rarely, and we also stress far too rarely how great their work is, because they not only work here in the plenary room or in the committees, but also because they have to perform the most diverse activities, often also in a person. I would also like to give this recognition to the staff today on your behalf. [[General condolences.]] I would like to thank the members of the Presidential Conference very much. You've got to get used to a woman; that's new, too. I believe that we have become accustomed to each other and that cooperation has become really good. Thank you very much! And I'm already looking forward to further work in autumn. I would, however, like to pay particular attention to the Second President, Dr. Spindelegger, and to the Third President, Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek thank you very much for the cooperation and for the good cooperation. I also look forward to much more that will happen to us in the next meeting time. Thank you very much! [[General condolences.]] I would also like to mention the staff in the ministries and thank them for their support. Then: This is a seamless transition: Without the staff of the Ministries, we would probably be very poor, we would be missing one or the other. I also notice in the decisions how often it says: Please, Mr. Minister, please, Mrs. Minister, take your employees with you! This is a good sign, and we thank the staff of the Ministries very much for that too! [[General condolences.]] I thank the representatives of the press, television and radio. We know exactly that politics needs the media, the media need politics, and many people in our house feel very much at home. I would also like to thank you here for the good cooperation, although, of course, we cannot always agree. [[General condolences.]] Of course, I am very grateful to the staff members of the “Hohes Haus” programme, who are always able to present Parliament’s work in a very detailed manner once a week for half an hour. I also think that the way the show is designed is well-designed. It has become a very political mission, and I believe that Parliament too is doing very well. Ladies and gentlemen! I wish you every two and a half months as you imagine it: on the one hand vacation, on the other hand intensive work, political work outside the house. Come back well when you go on vacation! That's something very important. They say this so easily, but we have already experienced sometime in the house that we actually saw ourselves here for the last time. That should not be the case. Therefore: Look at your family! Sales You have a good time in these two and a half months, and with full force we can then from 19. ==References====External links==* Official website This is the first time we've got a legislative period. Good luck! [[General condolences.]] [[19:49]] The sitting is closed.
