ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e3137	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! The 20th. The meeting of the National Council is open. ==References====External links== Meeting of 29. ==References====External links== Meeting of 30 March 1990 On 3 March 2007, he was appointed to the Parliamentary Directorate. Deputies Dr. Hlavac, Mandak, Mag. Weinzinger, Ing. Hofer, Neubauer, Mag. Stadler. [[09:02:51]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e3171	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e3324	I also announce that the Third Report of the Incompatibilities Committee has been distributed to all members of the National Council. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e3342	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration of the written question 692/J by Dr Pilz, colleagues to the Federal Minister for Finance concerning censorship of the files for the Committee of Inquiry as regards the procurement of combat aircraft. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 260/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e3366	Before entering the agenda, I would also like to say that, in accordance with § 92 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a desire to have a brief debate on the reply to Question 254/J by Mr Dolinschek, Member of Parliament, with regard to the announcement by the Federal Minister for Defence of the State, to seek an exit from the Eurofighter Treaty by the Federal Minister for Defence. As this meeting called for urgent debate on a written question, the brief debate will take place following this one. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e3387	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 and 2 of the agenda be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We are going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e3411	After consultation with the members of the Presidential Conference, a day-blocking period of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been envisaged, so that the following speaking times may arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 116 minutes, green as well as FPÖ per 92 minutes and BZÖ 64 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is accepted unanimously with the required two-thirds majority. [[09:05:21]] 1. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (43 e.g._Other Organiser German law, which amends the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the the Law on the the the the the the the Law on the the Law on the Law on the the the the the the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the Law on the the the the the the the the the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the Law on the Law on the the the the the the the the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the thethe 2. Point Report and request of the Budget Committee on the draft federal law amending the Health and Food Safety Act (68 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e3463	We now come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. That is what we are getting to the debate. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. Requested time: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e3493	Madam President. Dear Members on the Government Bank! High house! Not everything contained in this budget accompanying law is in principle rejected by the Greens. For example, I mention the attempt to stop the so-called carousel transactions in sales tax in the field of scrap and old iron by means of the so-called reverse charge, i.e. the transfer of the tax debt from the supplier to the recipient. Or I would like to mention the amendment of the Federal Finance Act to which the advisory services of the Federal Finance Agency should also be provided to the other local authorities – countries, municipalities – as well as the distributed enterprises. And if this is still linked to a transparency shift over what this Federal Finance Agency is doing, it will be possible for the House to understand at some point what is contained in Chapter 58 in the financing of the financial debt. I would also like to mention the new regulation of securities cover for pension provision after the Constitutional Court of Justice has repealed. In principle, this is a positive assessment. However, it is difficult to reduce the profit premium from 60 to 30 percent of the non-existing stock in the absence of securities coverage. This reduces the cost of undercovering, reduces sanctions in the event of misconduct and makes the law, this change of law, overall less bitig. Longer-term under- cover should at any rate be avoided as it poses a risk to pensioners. In the case of economic problems of the company, not only the job is gone, but also the operating pension. And I guess that should be prevented. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But the central part of this budget accompanying law is the increase in mineral oil tax, which, according to the Federal Government, should be a guarantee for the achievement of the national Kyoto objective. For this purpose, the mineral oil tax is increased by 3 cents per litre for petrol or 5 cents per litre for diesel. This totals €440 million. What are these €440 million used for? – First of all, there is a package provision for the infrastructure companies ÖBB and ASFINAG: 60 or 120 million €. But we do not know how these funds are to be allocated to the ÖBB and to the ASFINAG until today. In any event, it should be assumed that the larger part of it will be made available as equity fund for ASFINAG. Second point: The funding of the Climate Fund. For a long time we have been looking for funding in the budget until we – well, we have not been found. Last week, on Friday, there was an amendment in the Budget Committee, a federal financial authority, according to which 50 million this year and 150 million will be made available to the Climate Fund next year. – And some of the funds from the mineral oil tax, which is the part that flows to the countries and communities, are to be fed to public transport. This is basically a step in the right direction, but of course there remains a number of problems: First, the national Kyoto objective will probably not be achieved by this measure alone. Additional and other measures need to be taken to this end. Secondly, The problem of “tank tourism” remains. Also existing, and this is climate-politically counterproductive, the spray between diesel on one side and gasoline on the other. I also seem to be completely inadequate that the allocation of funds to countries and communities for public transport to the public was only provided under a political agreement. It would have been more meaningful to define this in the Financial Balance Act while at the same time deciding that evaluations have to be carried out in this respect, because only then can it be ensured that these funds actually flow into public transport. Finally – and this is probably the biggest problem of this mineral oil tax increase –: Social compensation is insufficient. This is also true if an amendment was tabled last night, which provides for an increase in the negative tax from € 110 per year to € 200 per year. Why is that inadequate? This is not enough, therefore, because this can only be a first step in this direction of remuneration for low-income persons, but only this increase in the tax on mineral oils after calculations by the Chamber of Labour of Lower Austria at a distance of 45 km represents a monthly additional burden of €10.56; sometimes the amount of €127 per year – and the increase in negative tax is only €90 per year, so this additional burden for the commuters only covers up to two thirds. So we have sought access to a rather small arrangement, while in other areas, namely, when it comes to the millions of heirs, we are very generous. I recall that the government parties agree more or less that the inheritance and gift tax should expire. Another problem, however, is that there is still no attempt to achieve equality between public transport users on the one hand and passenger cars on the other. I come to the next area, the standard consumption levy. Here we are dealing with a change to promote correct fiscal behaviour. This is where tax loopholes are closed. This is positive overall, but there is an opportunity to lead the NOVA to an ecologisation. The opportunity for a redesign of the NoVA is simply granted, in the direction that one could drop the lid that so much favours those large, high-consumption cars, the so-called SUV, which are shooting out of the ground today like the Schwammerl. The second is that by progressive pricing, one could have tried to create an incentive for the purchase decision on the size of the car. So a total of a far-reaching chance! However, the Budgetary Accompanying Act also includes a number of measures where lobbys have been enforced, for example in the framework of corporate tax. As a result, the draft ministerial plan was designed to explain the interest on foreign financing in relation to profit distributions as non-deductible. But this obviously fell victim to the intervening lobbys. A second area concerns the reform of the Federal Budget Act. Here, the government has undertaken to reduce the costs of legislation for companies by 25 percent by 2010 and accordingly, according to this draft law, the follow-up costs for companies are to be assessed. In principle, however, there is no objection to minimizing the cost of following legislation. But if it is associated with hopes that this can be a growth bearer, I can only say: It's probably a great illusion. And when I see that a separate department was set up in the Federal Ministry of Finance, which, I don't know, has six, seven or eight employees, I think: Where is the administrative cost saving in the public service? And even more colorful is it, when I think about the creation of a website for this project, www.administrative kostensken.at, initiated by the Federal Ministry of Finance, together with ten other departments. And as a partner on this website, are prominently represented – well, who? – The Austrian Chamber of Commerce and the Industrial Association! And evil thoughts come up when one hears: Website and industrial association. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Very bad thoughts!]] But fun side by side, Minister of State: What are the costs of setting up this website? And where are the other partners, such as the employee representatives or the consumer representatives? The following is certain in the context of this project: that there can be a hallucination of provisions that are at the expense of consumers or that standards are lowered. This could also affect, for example, the environment. It would probably be of interest here to include the other stakeholders in this process. If a “revelation” is addressed here in the context of this budgetary change, I ask you, Federal Minister for Finance: Where, then, is the actual reform of budgetary law, which would be significantly more important than this project, ‘administrative cost reduction.at’? – A proposal has already been submitted to the House in the past legislative period, with high objectives, such as the transition from input-oriented to output-oriented budgeting or medium-term financial framework planning. Where, Minister of Finance, does this project remain? – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e3544	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Stummvoll. Desirable time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e3565	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With the present Budgetary Accompanying Act 2007, we decide on the legal basis in many areas for a successful double budget 2007/2008, a double budget that continues a financial policy with the double strategy: on the one hand stability in the government budget, on the other hand massive investments in the future. This has already been the basis for successful economic development in recent years and also for more employment in Austria. – A policy for growth and employment, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have here, and this has also been acknowledged by some opposition speakers in the Budget Committee, a real budget-accompanied law, where there are really only measures in it that are most closely related to this double budget. I would particularly like to focus on the tax component. First of all, I would like to address the increase in the tax on mineral oil, which my previous speaker also made. There have undoubtedly been irritations in this area, ladies and gentlemen, because the government programme is known: 1 cent on petrol, 3 cents on diesel – and now 3 cents on petrol and 5 cents on diesel. This is easy to explain: The government programme expressly states that this measure – 1 cent and 3 cents – serves for that massive development programme in the field of road and rail, which in the history of the Second Republic is the largest development programme in the field of infrastructure. And now, in addition, the great challenge of humanity, climate protection, is added. As far as infrastructure is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I am really glad that we are making this massive advance towards future investment. I myself – that was still in the time when I was myself in the Ministry of Finance as a State Secretary – often criticized that we are investing too little in the budget for the future. I mean, it's incredibly important to invest in this infrastructure. I am not least saying this as a representative of a rural region, because I know that transport policy, i.e. road and rail development, is the most important instrument of regional policy. The simple agricultural principle applies: The Hendls are running where you're scattering the grains! And where you don't have a broken road link, no broken rail link, there won't be any farms, no new businesses will settle. Farms always mean: Employment, income opportunities and, ultimately, social security. That means: A confessing yes to this massive expansion of the infrastructure road and rail, but ultimately also broadband offensive. Ladies and gentlemen! Climate protection as a second challenge in the context of this most increase. – With regard to climate protection, one has to say: At the moment, the awareness of measures in favour of climate change is probably as good as ever. I believe that what has happened in recent years to climate change has greatly increased interest in climate change policy. And if we take the first steps with this contribution of 50 million in the 2007 budget and 150 million in the 2008 budget, and if we take on 25. May the Council of Ministers will decide on the climate fund template, then this is a historic time, because we are sending a clear signal, also internationally, that we are aware that we have an incredibly great responsibility for our children, for our grandchildren in the field of climate protection. I am also very glad that we have a minister with Sepp Pröll, who, of course, must be the classical minister of climate protection. This is a real challenge for him, and we are called on to support him. I am pleased that there is broad consensus on becoming offensive in the field of climate protection, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I say quite openly: I do not yet know the government template for the Climate Fund, but I expect that it also includes appropriate incentives towards innovation. For me, the key to climate protection is innovation. I remember that it was just recently – I believe, early March – in the “FAZ” Professor Lucas of the Academy of Sciences in Berlin that without loss of wealth, the energy saving potential is about 50 percent. That's what we've got in front of us. To give just a few examples: It is probably far too little known from the field of light solutions that produces a traditional incandescent lamp 95 percent heat and 5 percent light. With modern energy saving lamps alone, we could use incredible energy saving potentials. I expect incentives for further research, development and innovation in the field of climate protection to be made here as well. Or the issue of heat, house insulation, renovation, insulation, here we also have considerations – and we will bring them in when we negotiate the 2009 tax reform – towards tax incentives to promote thermal insulation in residential construction. We have incredible reserves in the field of energy saving. Another comparison I've read recently: If electric-spar chips were installed in the EU in all TV sets, this would only save three caloric power plants! Ladies and gentlemen, incredible reserves that we have in the field of climate protection! That is why it is right and necessary that we also use part of the Meast increase for climate protection measures and decide on climate funds here shortly, before the summer. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Pepper.]] The second tax measure, ladies and gentlemen, to which I would like to address, where one can argue about whether to do this or not – I know, there are different opinions – is this small change in the profit that has not been taken away, namely that the re-taxation is to be made at the tax rate that has also been paid for the use. I know that there are different opinions, we agree here, and I say quite openly, I tend to say that the profit not taken – so honestly, one must be – has not brought what we expected at the time in the tax reform 2004/2005. But it does not make sense to work around here, but I expect and myself with experts to develop a new concept of modern corporate taxation here, a corporate tax which, above all, ceases with that in itself absurd basis, according to which we today have a legal form-dependent income tax. We want modern corporate taxation with a legal form neutral taxation. It can't be true that if I'm successful when I'm yielding, my tax performance depends on, for example, whether I'm an individual entrepreneur or a GesmbH. In this area, we also have a huge challenge ahead of us. I am glad that we have a Finance Minister with our Finance Minister Willi Molterer, who sees this challenge that encouraged us to take action in this direction. I am already looking forward to the debate on tax reform, but we need to know – and I acknowledge – that: For this tax reform In the next two or three years, we will only have to create the scope, because a tax reform that we finance on debt would not be a tax reform for me, which I would like to approve. In this sense, thank you very much, Minister of Finance, for this budget accompanying law, also thank you for all the encouraging calls, towards climate protection, towards energy savings, but also towards modern corporate taxation!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e3683	The next item is the speech by Mr Grastaur. Requested time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e3705	High house! Mr. Minister! Madam President. In my opinion, the budgetary situation is already a bit depressing, because I have to say: Whatever the opposition brings in, nothing will change! Secondly, Unfortunately, the wrong path in the budget policy has been continued. I bluffed something back. What did the coalition partners, especially the SPÖ, not promise everything before the election? – Absorbing the study fees, ordering the Eurofighters, each taxpayer will receive an advantage of €500 tax relief, i.e. more money in the wallet, the additional wage costs will be reduced. Above all, however, there was no mention of tax increases pending. In the meantime, the population knows it anyway, it knows for a long time: Promise – not kept! I really don't wonder that people are mad at politics. The SPÖ was the one who strongly criticised the social cold of the last government in the elections. But I'm asking: Where is the social warmth of German chancellor Gusenbauer? The red and black federal government understands it perfectly to get the citizens deeply into the pockets. This reminds me of old large-scale coalition times, which already show the increase in health insurance contributions, the increase in mineral oil tax – I will then go even more closely on it – the planned abolition of the withdrawal amount for untapped profits, the already announced costing of the motorway vignette and so on. Apparently, the inheritance and gift tax is not yet entirely out of the table, because it is still budgeted, although the Constitutional Court has tipped it. We demand from the liberals once again and urgently the immediate abolition of these two unjust taxes. And anyone who finally has to pay the care costs will still stand out. – I fear it will be the people concerned themselves. To the budget accompanying law. - Right ahead: We liberals are against this law because it is the preliminary stage to a wrong budget. To the Federal Museum Act: The reactions from the art side say everything: Dissatisfaction all over the line! – There was also much more promised than money is now being made available. Specialized in the field of mineral oil tax: I believe that this is at the moment the biggest scapegoat of this new federal government. Already now – without the increase! – the drivers pay €3.7 billion each year in mineral oil tax. What makes me particularly excited is that every car driver has to add 20 percent VAT to it. So we all pay tax for the tax – and I find that totally unfair. If you take into account all taxes collected in road transport, it will be taken into account from 1. July this year will be € 11.8 billion, which the drivers have to catch. The announced increase in mineral oil tax by 3 cents or 5 cents at Diesel shows once again that for the government the drivers represent the milk cow of this nation. It is planned to increase the mineral oil tax of 16.6 percent for diesel and 7.2 percent for petrol. You remember: In 1987, the binding of the mineral oil tax on road construction and road maintenance was abolished. Since then, this tax has only been used to stop budget holes – instead of asphalt holes! The mineral oil tax must be used again to finance the infrastructure! The ÖAMTC recently published a statistics on how much the operation of a car costs from 1999 to 2007. A VW golf with an average output of 15,000 kilometres per year and a consumption of 7 litres at 100 kilometres has been studied. It turned out that in the petrol-powered vehicle, the cost rose from €1 007 to €1 439 and in the diesel vehicle from €737 to €1 211. Thus, an increase of 43 percent in the petrol car and 64 percent in the diesel car. Thus, due to the current increase in mineral oil tax and the other increases from the past, it is necessary to pay almost €500 more in operating costs for such a vehicle. This is a direct grip on the Austrians' money bags! It is understandable that the Minister of Finance needs money, but it is questionable: How do you get from when you don't steal? – There is a clear answer to this: Save should be the goal of this government, in the right place, namely itself! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I make a small swivel to the municipality of Vienna, here the “social warmth” comes out of this municipality led by the SP: The parking fees are increased by 50 percent, while the validity of these short-term parking areas extends from 20 am to 22 pm. The tickets for public transport are expensive, the price of electricity and gas increased by 17 percent, the fees for waste disposal by 19 percent, the waste water charges by 28 percent and the cultural promotion contribution by 34 percent. This is the “social warmth” of the SPÖ! I hope that the Wiener women do not like this in the long run, and that they will no longer be able to choose these excavators. [[Abg. Parnigoni:... Federal budget!]] - I'm coming to talk. The increase in court fees, for example. For signature approval, the new law provides for two-stage increases: from 2 € to 3 € and from 4 € to 11 €. This means a charge increase of 50 and 175 percent respectively. And it's simple people who have to make certifications in the court building because they don't have a notary on their side. Another reason we reject this budget accompanying law is the re-introduction of a refund fee of €6. In case of a failed attempt for a debit, the P.S.K. 6 €. At the same time, the existing collection fee is increased from €7 to €8. – It is mercilessly buried! To this end, I would like to say: The BAWAG P.S.K. the housebank of this Republic. The exclusivity naturally strengthens the bank side, which is almost a free letter for increases in fees. A re-examination of the federal payment system could be a miracle here. Any bank operating under competitive pressure would have a special arrangement for the large customer state in the case of debit fees, up to € 0 fees. I think taxpayers would be very pleased. All services for the federal government must be awarded in a public tender procedure, why not also the management of the state accounts? There are certainly Austrian banks that can operate as well as the BAWAG; there is no doubt about this after the Caribbean disaster of BAWAG! We have therefore tabled a motion for a resolution on this subject. One last thing about the budget accompanying law: With the willful penalty, the limit amount is increased from € 290 to € 400, which is an increase of 38 percent and is justified with nothing. We just don't do that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We liberals believe that it is the wrong way to finance the government budget alone via the revenue side. Instead, measures should finally be taken to benefit from the great savings potential, such as in the area of administration, but above all through a profound state reform, which avoids double-tracking between the federal, state and local authorities. I'll stay with you. According to the Convention, up to €3 billion are to be saved annually in administrative costs. I recently asked the Court of Auditors: This figure has not been questioned in any way. Do not raise taxes or introduce new taxes, but reduce taxes and, above all, abolish taxes that bring less than the administrative burden, as is the case with the inheritance tax. That is the demand of the Freedom Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e3758	Next, Mr Krainer. 8 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e3780	Madam President. Mr Grazauer, how absurd this accusation of being abducted to the city of Vienna or SPÖ is, can best be proved by the example that you brought yourself, namely parking fees. True, it is increased by 50 percent – for the first time in 20 years, for 20 years! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's a lot!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Do you know what happened in the 20 years? – Inflation is more than 70 percent, while parking fees in Vienna have fallen in these 20 years. You know why? – Because the city of Vienna, when the euro was introduced, did something quite different than you, who were sitting in the Federal Government. In Vienna, the introduction of the euro was not used to raise fees, but was rounded off there. In fact, the parking fee has fallen over the last 20 years. It will now be increased in line with half the inflation rate. [[Call:Abkassier]] If the social cold is, I like to buy an anorak, but it will be quite hot for me. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With the budget accompanying laws on the 2007 and 2008 budgets, we are now doing the following: that we really only decide seriously on financial laws and budget accompanying laws. This has not always been the case in the past, has also been rightly criticized. The Federal Government is going another way here, namely to take the budget accompanying law seriously to its name accordingly. We decide here a number of laws: Increase student support by 15 percent due to “social cold” and a number of other measures in the area of turnover tax, income tax. I would like to highlight an area which my previous speakers have already recognised as the core area, namely the question of increasing the tax on mineral oils, and associated with this with the donation of the climate protection fund. First of all, it is the case that this climate protection fund is financed more rationally. One of the main causers and, above all, causers of the increased rise of the CO2 climate killer is the passenger transport, is the truck traffic. That is why it is the right way to finance the climate protection fund properly through mineral oil tax. The second, because sustainability has always been discussed in recent years, is that this measure meets the criteria of sustainability seriously and truly. There are three pillars of sustainability. At least one pillar has always been fulfilled in the past, namely the economic question, occasionally on the ecological issue, while the social question has been excluded from the issue of sustainability in recent years. And this measure fulfills all three. First, the economic pillar, because we are able to support innovative companies in Austria in developing and producing new products, new technologies and simply getting market opportunities, even later in exports, that is, far beyond Austrian borders. The second pillar, the ecological pillar has equally positive effects, because we manage to achieve a small contribution to the Kyoto target first of all in the short term. This will not be too large, because the products and technology development developed by this climate fund will have a lower impact on Kyoto 1, but we are already expecting a reduction in tank tourism and thus, at least in the short term, positive effects on climate policy, but in the medium and long term, above all, very large effects. What, I think, is also essential is that we not only want to achieve short-term effects, but also medium- and long-term effects – and not only to Austria. In reality, we want to make a potentially very positive contribution to climate policy far beyond borders through the development of new technologies. The third pillar, which has unfortunately been completely hidden out of the discussion in the past, is also fulfilled by socially offsetting the costs here, and by two measures: on the one hand, by increasing the rate of commuting – because of “social cold” – by 10 percent. But even for those who earn so little that they do not pay income tax, the negative tax effect in the Income Tax Act is now almost doubled, i.e., instead of paying 110 € less social security contributions, up to 200 € less social security contributions – because of “social cold”! So there is something new for the lower incomes too, which has been very little or no in recent years, namely a measure in this direction, and that is good. This is a joint measure of this Federal Government, where I would also like to thank all those involved in it, whether this is in the Ministry of Finance, in the Federal Chancellery et cetera. I think that this is a very essential measure, that we are doing something in this lower income area too, because it is only this measure that makes it really sustainable, because the social pillar is just as stressed here. I should also like to table an amendment which has already been announced by Mr Rossmann, namely the amendment tabled by Jakob Auer, Jan Krainer to the 2007 Budgetary Accompaniment Act with a number of amendments. I'm allowed to make a brief reference to that. The first is that in the Income Tax Act, the negative effect of income tax is increased from € 110 to € 200, i.e. a negative equivalent. This applies to 2008, 2009, because we are still working on a tax reform for 2010, which is also about structural issues and is also to be clarified. The second, which is changed here, is an editorial change in the corporate tax law, that is, an editorial accident. The Fees Act will also exempt service-protection contracts and not only copyright licensing contracts in the narrower sense. Then, in paragraph 4, an editorial change is made to the Federal Budget Act, and in paragraph 5, something is not unimportant. It is about the fact that, if parents live separately and are there, the child should not suffer from it by not paying out pupils' aid, but should nevertheless be granted very unbureaucratic aid, even if a parent who is subject to maintenance does not comply with his services. In so doing, I believe that the Budgetary Support Act is, above all, a very positive one here, and I would like to ask everyone to agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e3851	I announce that the amendment tabled in his key points is sufficiently supported and properly implemented by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Jan Krainer, colleagues. In view of the extent of this amendment, according to § 53 para. Copy and distribute 4. This request is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e4005	Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. Requested time: 12 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e4026	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Krainer, you have put on the anorak here and you think there is no social cold in Vienna. Just two numbers, so you know: In the last 13 years, there has been an increase in public transport tariffs four times in the red city government under socialist leadership in Vienna! Four times! Overall, there has been an increase of 56 percent in the single ticket over the past 13 years and 43 percent in the annual ticket. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] Mr Krainer! And now you go to Vienna, sit down in the tramway and explain there minimum pensioners, people who can't afford it, but also drivers who want to make you change, this price price of transport! This is abcassing, social-democratic wastes in Vienna, Mr Krainer, and that is what we mean. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The budget accompanying laws represent a comprehensive package. They are also the growth of the conflict, the harrowing, serious conflict between the two major parties. It is all the time only disputed. Breakless, every day unkindnesses are directed. Of course nothing can go on, I understand. Austria is being mistreated in the truest sense of the word, and as a result there is nothing but inventive loads, tax increases and withdrawals, as has rarely been the case with these budget accompanying laws. Where debt is and dispute, the misery is not far. One sees that there seems to be misery between the two coalition parties because they do not find themselves together, but for this they are united when it comes to cashing off with people. Mr Finanzminister, once again explain to the people that we should decide today on tax increases, tax increases, taxes, while at the same time you will be able to book again € 540 million in tax revenue alone in the first two months of this year, January and February! If we count on the budget time of the double budget, we can assume that we will have more than €5 billion in tax revenue. But in spite of the industrious tax revenue of the Austrians who pay taxes, you go here and increase their taxes and taxes, double, triple, to achieve your goal in 2010, namely the self-financed tax reform, which people have financed until then. That's unfair. That is why we are saying, Minister: Now we need a tax reform, now we have to go down with taxes, now we need a relief from people so that the economic engine does not start to stutter, but continues to run. That is why we do not agree with you if you are going here today about to increase the tax on mineral oil and meet 2 million taxpayers in full. Of the 2 million counterparts, 60 percent depend on the car. If I have to commute from Oberwart to Vienna today, I pay up to 240 € a year more because of your mineral oil tax increase. Is that fair for the families? Is this fair for workers who cannot afford it anyway? - I think no. That you increase this twice and triple is a special chuzpe, and that you also hang the green coat at the mineral oil tax, which is even an interesting thing. Obviously, you just waited for it. But also the increases in fees that take place! Mr Molterer, in reply to a question to a question by Mr Bucher of March, you have told us literally: ‘The fees under the Fees Act are not affected by the valorization.’ Today we decide! Today, we decide to evaluate the fees according to the Fees Act, passports, for everything that man needs in documents. Everything's being raised. The vignette fee will be increased. It's incredible what makes you roll on the people here for a load wave. But you continue to create posts, including Alibi, climate fund, wonderful. That's what we're for, also for the teaching. But if you don't agree, you get two: one red and one black. There's money running out of the window. That's where we do it. That is why we believe that this so-called dispute-hansel coalition does not really do anything, nor does it bring any proposals to Parliament. It has to be cancelled even the replacement day in May, because nothing is there. They're not bringing anything in. They agree on nothing – but you agree on burdens, on non-social burdens, which we simply and simply have to reject and reject here. As far as drivers are concerned: You're probably going to burden the drivers even more. CO2 tax will come, what else do I remember? But, Minister, I'm telling you something: You can also walk to the election cells. They're not that far away. You can still burden the drivers so much. They'll remember what you're doing to them today, and then they'll be voting in the election cell next time. I'm convinced of that. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But there are also very many family-political laws affected by this today's package, the family policy. The family minister, who is kindly present, is also in office for about a hundred days. Yesterday you were at the “Standard” chat, Mrs. Minister, and you asked a reader: “Do you agree that they want to take part in the next season of “dancing stars”?” And They replied: “Bin today” – that is yesterday – “in the metropolis at a benefit event... where I give the countess Mariza, depending on the audience sechos we can talk about this question at a later time.” – You left it open. [[Calls of the Abg. Steibl and other representatives of the ÖVP.]] I'd be interested, Mrs. Minister: Was it an audience success?, then we would have the chance that You may hire at the metropolis, in the theater as an actress, as a countess Mariza, and stay here apart. That might be a good thing, Mrs. Minister. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I hope it was an audience success, because in recent weeks and months, your balance sheet is chaos, pleading, bad luck and pans, a family policy that goes in the completely wrong direction. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] The child money that we have decided together with the ÖVP is a political milestone, is a milestone, a success that actually results from the government work of recent years. And what happens now? – Now, a limit of merit is reduced in retrospect, soaked down by families who have been able to rely so far on the fact that this is not the case. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] And what about colleague Amon? Where is he? I assume that he comes out and also says his opinion, because he has already publicly announced that he is for the complete abolition of the limit of trust. Or also the women's representatives in the ÖVP! Let us jointly remove this limit of merit! Every child is worth a lot! That's what we heard from you. That is why this unjust, anti-performance, anti-performance constraint must be removed! But now don't start to excite, Mrs. Minister! Leave your fingers off the families and do not cash off where you are not allowed to register! That's our concern. That's what we want from you. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In 2001, we had 76,674 pensioners. In 2007 we have 162 384 children's benefits. A huge success! For the first time in March of this year, even the number of men below has increased to over 6,000. This too is a success, always told by the women's politicians that the men, even those who may be in the middle class, who perhaps deserve a little better, still ultimately devote themselves to childcare. They're going to undo all of this. They want to impose a burden on all those who didn't have to pay for it now by the in-case, by the subsequent in-boxing. They say these are additional costs of € 300 million. We say that only €100 million costs the administrative burden on the earner's limit. So get away with it and not here your way of doing it! This is not a process that is in the sense of a good, forward-looking family policy. But that also corresponds to your family image, Mrs. Kdolsky. They obviously have a different relationship with families and children. It's not easy for you to do that. But if you're public and you're going to philosophise about that you'd rather be aunt, then you can give back the little queal spirits, and that you feel disturbed in the plane and in luxury restaurants when children scream, then that's discrediting! [[Calls of the Abg. Steibl.]] This is not an announcement for a future-looking family policy. We need a climate for families, for children. And as a family minister, you have the obligation to stand at the head of such a movement for children, for families – and not against it, Mrs. Minister! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] By the way, as some of the ÖVP are looking like this: There's a lady, Mrs. Sissi Potzinger from the ÖVP family association. Do you know what she said about the two quotes I just mentioned? – With such statements Kdolsky is completely incompetent! I'm right about your family representative from the ÖVP. That is what we are criticising. The third criticism, one of the most important criticisms, is the party-political abuse of schoolchildren for self-representation, your condom action in the Hegelgasse in Vienna. First of all, you are too late because the children and students know very well what to do with condoms and how to use them. You don't need the minister to explain this. But you go and want to start party policy actions with 14-, 15-year-old children, in all newspapers on photos. And then the highlight comes. If the criticism comes from the parents who don't like it, do you know what the minister says? – The Minister says: The publications of these photographs are not the responsibility of the Ministry. – In other words, the journalists are guilty that they happened to pass school and filmed and photographed the minister. – You invited the journalists! They actually abused the students and harvested the parental protest. I quote your coalition partner, who said the following: SPÖ Managing Director Kalina: “It will be time for the Minister of Health and Family to consider her work and to distance herself from show deposits à la condom distribution.” Instead of dealing with the forthcoming tasks of their place of business within the meaning of the Coalition Agreement, Kdolsky students, without parental consultation and consent, are bothering with party-political publicity actions. Vice chancellor Molterer may Kdolsky remind her of her essential tasks.... After all,’ Kalina says literally: “The Minister threatens to become the government’s pause clown.” This is the lovely name of the coalition partner for the work of your family minister. If there's a need for proof that you want to make a new ÖVP, I'll tell you the old one was better, because it was more professional. This new ÖVP, which you characterise here, with chaos and with confusion, is not, as I mean, for the future. But it is also true that For example, they continue with bans, demarcation policy – smoking ban, general ban on smoking, demarcation of entrepreneurs, the host industry, the host industry, central premeditation and ban policy, interference in freedom. I say: Finally stop with the Hatz against the hostess! Stop robbing the business of their entrepreneurial freedom! Leave You have freedom of expression and freedom of thought here! Everyone should be able to decide for themselves how he does it, how he designed it in his restaurants! We don't need a minister. 70 percent of people are against a general ban on smoking. And that's why we're against it. This is not a new way, Mrs. Minister. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You always say you want to go new ways in all areas. Mrs Minister, I support this, essentially, you go. Even if there are new ways, main thing, you go. Whether this is the case with health insurance contributions, where we decide today to increase the amount of €150 million – by the way, by the way, the majority of the work, 3.95 percent – or with the medications, where we will decide today with the amendment of the Health and Nutritional Safety Act a real price of the medications, where a new tax on a drug pack will suddenly come upon each drug pack. Write about it, as is the case with cigarettes, Mrs. Minister, whenever you afford the medications, at every pack: "Okay, this minister may endanger your health." Then at least a truth is on it on the pack, then people are warned accordingly. We want you to go down with the VAT on medication. We're a high tax country on drugs and we're in second place. Only Denmark is ahead of us at 25 percent. We have 20 percent VAT. And in the EU section we have 10 percent. The food in the luxury restaurant is taxed at 10 percent, but the medicines that people cannot afford are taxed at 20 percent. You would have a responsibility, but you refuse to do so because you don't want a discharge for people. During the health insurance reform every day something different! At the Management Club, you say the health insurance companies are put together. We've been happy. I thought: A look at the light, finally a good idea! – Two days later: Crasher, wasn't meant to be. At the hospital hospitals, you're talking about the abolition. Then the doctors come, then the discussion comes. A few days later You don't remember it anymore. – No abolition of hospital hospitals. Mrs. Kdolsky, I really tell you that you are the ideal occupation – the Josef Cap knows this – for “the middle of the eighth”: No fans, just before deposition, but daily in the ORF. – That’s your role you’re currently playing. That is why I say – “Gr. Mariza” in all honors! –: That might be a good role, because the latest thing you put on the table now is the 68. ASVG-Novelle, where you start to state the doctors. That's incredible what's happening, dear ÖVP! You know what's inside? There is a right of the Minister to direct contractual relations between doctors and social security schemes. There is already a cry from the doctors who see an end to self-government and a nationalization of the medical system. - We don't want that, Mrs. Minister! That's the wrong way. Summaries: We believe that you are over-required in content. They are politically really chaotic on the go. They're making a non-social burden policy. They demise the people with a ban policy, and you apparently want to strengthen the state influence when it comes to your instructions. Mrs Minister, that is why we are now making the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I know that the proposal is likely to be due to large-scale coalition – we are holding together, there are side-letters! – do not find a majority. But I am telling you, Mrs Minister, not only the BZÖ is expressing your distrust today – no: Austria's children are expressing their distrust to you today! Austria's families are distrusting you today! Austria's patients are expressing their distrust for you today! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Austrian doctors speak It's a mistrust for you today! And Austria's pensioners and those people who can no longer afford the expensive drugs and health in the country are expressing distrust to you today! I think the measure is full, Mrs Kdolsky! Get off! – This would help you to provide Austria with a service.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e4185	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e4462	The next item is the report by Mrs Rauch-Kallat. Desirable time: 6 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e4484	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Westenthaler, Mr Klubobmann, I think that you are overestimating yourself a little if you think – or also immeasurably! – that, because the BZÖ – by the way, in a very humane division from yesterday’s press release – thinks that Mrs. Federal Minister Kdolsky can express the distrust that would join the whole of Austria. [[Abg. Eder: Unscrupulous!]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Mr Westenthaler, if you think that you are giving eleven good reasons to express distrust here – I would think it is pretty stupid, but in order not to risk a call for order, I would say little intelligent reasons – then I will try to give you ten good reasons to express full confidence to Mrs. Federal Minister Kdolsky. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Obedience limit!]] Let's stay right at your limit. First of all: The commitment limit was not introduced by Mrs. Kdolsky, but was originally at the minimum limit of €4,000 per year in the SPÖ period. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: She's cashing it!]] We are now at €14 600 a year and will be this limit of trust – and this is what Mrs. Federal Minister Kdolsky will do! – raise and valorise more than €16 000. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] That means that this is a really good reason for the Federal Minister to express his confidence. And what happens to the control of this commitment limit, which we have increased in our time of government, I would say: I believe that if Austria does not take itself and its laws seriously, then we should be in the ranks of the banana republics. We don't want that! We'll take this seriously. And we don't want those who adhere to the law that are stupid. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If Mrs. Federal Minister Kdolsky now accepts this problem, that means that she adheres to the law. I do not want to discuss the instructions given by Mr Bundesminister to the effect that this should not be checked at all, the question of how legal it was. Mrs. Federal Minister Kdolsky addresses things openly – that is why I am on the third good reason. She speaks of what wealth children can mean, but she also says that children – even for their parents, even for their grandparents – can sometimes be a burden. I know what I'm talking about. My second grandchild is six weeks old. We all love it hot. But if it screams for three hours, it can be a burden! – Well, of course not! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Then you don't want to give it away either!]] Mrs. Kdolsky did not speak of that either. But we have to help the parents! We must support them and we must also create the climate – and this is what Mrs Federal Minister Kdolsky is doing! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Federal Minister is openly addressing things. If you're talking about the condoms, I'll tell you: It was about AIDS prevention, not about party policy. It is about making it clear to young people how dangerous it can be. One thing that moved all people in the public 20 years ago is forgotten. That's why she's not done. We also need to inform young people about the dangers that threaten us. This is what Mrs. Federal Minister Kdolsky does – and she does it in a way that concerns young people, and then it is right. And that's why we also express our trust in her. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It hasn't arrived so well with the parents!]] Mr Westenthaler, the ban on smoking: I don't understand why the BZÖ doesn't want to protect the non-smokers. I just don't understand. I think it is urgently necessary to note here that Mrs Federal Minister Kdolsky did not mention a general ban on smoking, no more than I did – quite the contrary! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Something else every day!]] We have always spoken for freedom of choice, but for the greatest possible protection of non-smokers. To this end, we continue to confess – and the Federal Minister does the same. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It's not about the forem of the host at all. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: They see this!]] We have done this together with the hosts, and Mrs. Federal Minister Kdolsky is doing this together with the gastronomy. It will surely find a way to deal with all Austrians well. Health insurance contributions: Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler, we have the best health system in the world. With this health system, we have also achieved simply and simply that the Austrians get all the benefits they need. And that's a lot. Thank God it is becoming more and more because the medicine continues. It also costs money, which has its price. We want this health system to be preserved. Half of the money will be spent on Mrs. Federal Minister Kdolsky through savings, the other half will be covered by a very moderate increase in health insurance contributions. I am convinced that the Austrians will be happy to pay this if they know that they can also receive the best health system in the world. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The contribution we have in this supplementary request, Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler, is simply and simply a contribution that ensures that the drugs are safe in the future. Can I tell you something? – When I became a minister just over four years ago, I found a situation where the medications were not adequately controlled. We have succeeded in creating an institution with PharmMed Austria, that permits are achieved faster and that the review of drugs is also ensured accordingly. This will certainly be worth a cent for every Austrian and every Austrian to make sure that they have safe medicines. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The most expensive drugs in the EU!]] What happens to the nationalization of doctors, Mr Westenthaler: I don't know a group that can be state-owned, but the last are certainly the doctors. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's why they defend themselves!]] What Mrs Bundesminister Kdolsky is doing is to continue the health reform which we have decided together with the creation of the regional health platforms, Mr Westenthaler. It was your colleague Schweitzer's idea to call the national health platforms so - we wanted to call them something else. This also means moving from the hospital to the established area – an improvement for patients. These are ten good reasons, Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler, to express confidence in Mrs. Federal Minister Kdolsky. More than a hundred days ago, she took over a huge and difficult ministry – the interests of the various groups in the health field are very different. Nobody knows better than me. Mrs. Federal Minister Kdolsky has been very committed to this challenge and has accepted it with Verve. We are convinced that it will also be an excellent master of the various tasks of this department. That is why my group expresses full confidence in our Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e4703	The next item is Mrs Lichtenecker's speech. Desirable time: 8 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e4725	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! High house! Back to Causa prima this week, to the budget: Part of the budget accompanying law concerns the amendment of the old-age recovery law. This change allows the old load contributions to continue to be used for emergency measures in the recovery of old loads, which we consider to be good, smart and worthy of support. We should not neglect that there is a great need for follow-up and action here. There are numerous old loads – abandoned landfills, operating sites – that can be cleaned, causing damage to groundwater and soil quality. Nevertheless, the resources are too little to move forward more quickly here, as the experts recommend. There is a need for renovation of over 2,500 sites, and probably even more are needed – a great need for action! Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance, if you are talking about the much praised future orientation of this budget, then of course the question is where you are looking when you look at climate change. With regard to climate protection and also parts of environmental protection, this budget accompanying law and this budget are a very great disappointment. Austria is climate protection closing light, politics lives in recent weeks, months and years of lip confessions, soap bubble productions and empty promises. Keep going does very little. The recent discussion on the allocation plan shows that this lack of commitment to climate protection policy leads to an unpredictable policy and thus to economic problems. That's exactly what it's about to prevent! If you provide expenditure for JI/CDM projects for the next two years of more than €100 million – for those who depend on the environment policy and climate policy of the past: in figures 1.4 billion schilling – then this is simply something we lose in Austria. We do nothing for domestic value-added and we do nothing for domestic jobs. It must be said quite clearly what it is about: With these funds, wind farms, hydro power plants are being built in New Zealand or China. No one here will be able to explain why it is necessary that we invest the money there and not here in Austria to make progress. To equip the climate protection fund with €50 million this year can be seen as a start. [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: 650 million schilling!]] – Mr Vice-Chancellor, well expected! Nevertheless: It's too little. Mr. Vice-Chancellor, this is as if you are really taking a big step and actually putting water on the mills, so that something is going forward, standing in front of your fields and fields in Sierning on the farm and in this drought – probably again a consequence of climate change! – want to become lords with two ten-liter casting pots of the drought. This is not going to happen, and neither will it be with this fund – with this leaner equipment even for the next few years. We need an energy transition fund – well-equipped and full of €200 million a year and consistently for two periods – to force research to mobilise households to switch to energy-efficient devices in order to be able to set appropriate priorities and not only to operate superficial cosmetics. The climate summit two weeks ago: Well staged, with many experts, with representatives of the various political levels – including the federal states – and with the representatives of the social partners who all have conspired to do something that needs to be done immediately, because climate protection has no time. Mr Grillitsch, if it is, then of course we ask ourselves: Why doesn't this show up in the budget? Why does this not appear in the budget accompanying laws? The consequences are lean to zero, except that Minister Pröll faithfully promises every week to control the measures that happen, except that Chancellor Gusenbauer announces that next year at this time there will be this summit again. In addition to announcements and promises, budget resources and relevant laws are actually used, such as an eco-social tax reform that is based on CO2 emissions and at the same time considers that labour costs have to be reduced. A tax incentive model for the renovation of the old buildings is also used. From 1945 to 1980 we have a huge old building stock, which is under renovation, where huge savings potential exists and also the possibility of many jobs. Of course, there is also a need for a concrete measure to promote financial compensation in order to achieve a reform of housing support according to climate change objectives. Mr Grillitsch, because you are so hard to conjure up climate protection and renewable energies: We will set up an appropriate initiative – you can join us – to push forward the overall reform of the Eco electricity Act, to strengthen renewable energies in this country in order to really take a step here. Mr. Vice-Chancellor, you said in your budget speech: This budget is generation-fit and future-fit – on all points. And you said, We want to make Austria the number one thing in the EU. Of course, there's a question. How, do you think, is it possible to actually achieve these objectives in climate protection? Because we will not become the number one with this program, nor are we in this form future and generations-fit. This objective of climate protection and environmental policy has been very poor in this form, both in the accompanying laws and in the budget itself. It seems as if climate protection is a daunting task for this government, instead of you coming here and saying: We have great challenges and also great opportunities – and that is exactly what we pick up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e4777	Mr Bauer came next. Desirable time: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e4798	Estimated President! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to make two comments: firstly, to the BZÖ, which means to place serious conflicts between the coalition partners, and secondly to the liberals who believe that a wrong budgetary policy is being pursued. Now I believe that it is a fact that after years of economic stagnation with growth rates of 1 to 2 percent, we now have an economic growth phase between 2.5 and 3 percent and a budget ahead of us, which is discussed in two directions: that it is well consolidated and in the direction – we can be proud of that! . that this budget will be better in the outcome than the proposal provides. We know the arguments: On the one hand, we are talking about a wrong budget, on the other hand, we are talking about how to expect the surpluses from the better economic development, which can already be expected today – from about € 700 to 800 million! – can use meaningfully and effectively in the Austrian economy. So you have to decide whether the budget is wrong or whether you are discussing how to use surpluses well and effectively for jobs and more. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I see the budget as a good basis for making important changes for the Austrian economy, changing towards more employment, more technology intensity, more environmental quality and quality of location, and above all – a very massive demand! – better income development, especially for lower incomes. Because with a result of minus 19 per cent of the lower fifth of the income earners, the second fifth of 11 per cent, it cannot be said that social responsibility is met and that, second, which seems to me to be very important, the long-term security of the economy is ensured from domestic demand. This is still robust today, but we also want a strong economy after 2012, which is not only driven by export, but of course also increasingly secured by domestic demand. – And that’s the policy we need! Ladies and gentlemen, there is a massive need for change – that is completely undisputed – and we should therefore recognise that there is currently more need for change than consolidation needs. At national policy level, structural deficits need to be reduced in the form of administrative reform, technology improvement and investment deficits. Extreme deficits also exist in the area of care components for both older and younger people. But I am particularly pleased that this budget accompanying law or its laws are those that actually deserve that name and are directly relevant to the budget. I believe that the question raised by my previous speaker Krainer is also very important – I refer to the Pendler pauschale. I consider them extremely important in a country where so much mobility is needed in the labour market. I welcome the fact that not only has the increase of 10 per cent been made in general, but it has now also been achieved by raising the negative tax from € 110 to € 200 that those who have income below the tax limit also receive support. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also think it is one of the most central demands that in the future the tax reform will create even better conditions in this area, because the Austrians cannot come out without commuting in the world of work. It is essential for rural areas in particular, i.e. those who do not live in the centres, that they find a compensation mechanism to ensure that they are improved accordingly. In this sense, the Budgetary Support Act is a package of laws that will be considered as an important complement to the overall budget and will have an excellent positive effect.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e4861	The next item is Mr Themessl. Desirable time: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e4883	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! If I listen to my previous speakers from the government parties in this way, I almost feel that they are talking about a whole different budget or a different budget-accompaniment law than we have here, because running such a lobby through a budget-accompanied law and seeing it as a positive prelude and as a positive basis for an excellent double budget is a bit far-reaching. We have to do this with a basis for deciding a double budget, which is characterised by new burdens, an attack or revenge campaign on the middle class, an attempt at attack on all small and medium-sized enterprises in this country – and that, ladies and gentlemen, will be revenged! [[Call the ÖVP: Don't worry!]] Minister of Finance, I don't know: Don't you know the revenue in your budget? [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: Better than you at least!]] In the first two months of the new year we already have more revenue of over half a billion €! However, what goes back – and you always forget to say that – is, of course, revenue on the sales tax, where there is a break in because the purchasing power does not jump in our country. And why doesn't she jump? – Because we do not make economic policy as good as the EU's countries of thepresidencies, such as Denmark, Holland, Ireland, Sweden and many others. My previous speaker, Dr. Hannes Bauer, said that we are at an economic growth rate of 2.5 to 3 percent. Granted, this is not bad, but the fact is that the good countries in Europe, which would actually serve as a model for us, are talking about economic growth of 4 to 5 percent and can thereby also achieve budget surpluses, mostly up to 4 and more percent of the gross domestic product – and we are still in debt! If Mr Stumpfully says that it is irresponsible to think of a tax reform and build it on debt, I wonder: What's the budget here?- Oh, my God! – You make a budget without tax reform – there are no approaches to it either – and you are still making debts! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this year we have debt of €4 billion in addition. If you are still adding the outsourced areas, then we'll get to a debt level of €7 billion this year; and if you'll add to it next year, then €10 billion. Mr Finanzminister, with a debt of € 168 billion, which is now available, plus the outsourced debt – ASFINAG and some other companies – of over €30 billion, which must then be taken into the official budget from 2012 onwards, we are already at a debt of over €200 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the triple of the annual budget of this state! – This is a responsible budget policy that is being pursued here, and above all that is not responsible to the economy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You ruin, you start an attack on all small and medium-sized enterprises. We still have the fifth highest tax burden in the EU! We have a maximum tax rate of 50 percent! Do you know that 2 million Austrians do not pay taxes? – That’s very positive. However, they also know – or do not say – that over two million Austrians pay 38 percent and more taxes, that one million Austrians pay 43.5 percent taxes, and that over 200 000 Austrians still pay 50 percent taxes. And do it for it. She's nothing! – They endanger our middle class. They endanger the economy, which is primarily and originally responsible for tax revenue. You know, small and medium-sized enterprises employ 1.7 million people in Austria. You are the backbone of our economy – and you are very simple and easy to find out about this with your responsible budget policy! This can't be the case. And since you can't think of a tax reform right now, in times when the economy is flourishing, I'm quoting Dr. Marterbauer – whom you know from the budget hearing held during the budget debate – who has said that he is now preparing a forecast of economic growth in 2008 would be unresponsible. – You comfort all Austrians, you comfort the Austrian economy for a tax reform in 2010. I'll tell you one thing: If you are addressing 2010 now, it is twice as irrational if you assume it and say that economic growth is going to give way to so much that a tax reform has room. - It doesn't play! What do you think about how fast economic growth can change? I only remember the year 2001, nightly this has changed. That's irrational policy! Now, and now, you have to start a tax reform immediately, so that it can take effect at least in 2008. I am right to say that a preliminary period for a reasonable tax reform must, of course, also exist, but if you do not start now, I ask myself: When do you want to do this? – If you now comfort the Austrians and the economy to 2010 and if we look at the first 100 days of your government where you have done almost nothing – it is not even a government template on the tapet today – then I think you will not start before 2009! [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: What do we have today?]] That'll be nothing but a sugar. Now I'm coming to talk to the Pendler Pauschale. If you know what the shuttle fee is, Mr Krainer has said here at the speaker's desk, an increase in parking fees in Vienna by 50 per cent, that is not much, it is a ridiculous amount for itself. To this end, I must insist on the following: At the pendulum rate, a 10-percent increase is envisaged. Mr Krainer! If 50 percent is not too much, then 10 percent are just a joke! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You know, in urban areas, in cities it is already possible to switch to public transport, but in rural areas – and obviously my colleagues do not know on the side of the Green Austria – it is simply and simply a pleasure to get to work as a commuter with public transport, namely in a reasonable time frame. Ladies and gentlemen! The increase in the tax on mineral oil, the massive burden on the food industry – these costs are being covered, which the small citizens all pay for because the food is expensive because the transport costs are rising and, and, and. That's not responsible to the detail! Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, think about it! Take a heart, don't be so cowardly, take the courage and start a tax reform now so that in 2008 we can benefit from the hopefully continued economic upturn also for our state! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e4980	It now has Mr. Vice-Chancellor Mag. Molterer to speak. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e5001	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Before I go into the budget accompanying law, Mr Westenthaler, just a few sentences on what you have given of yourself – because a “parliamentary speech” would not yet mention that in terms of definition –: They're overestimating something! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Principal Teacher on the Government Bank!]] Mr Westenthaler, you are overestimating something – I would say you overestimate yourself. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: As a member of the government, the Members of Parliament say what is a speech and what is not!]] If you go here and say you talk for all children, then you not only overestimate yourself, but you have a completely false political understanding: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Father Willi!]] The children have their own voice – they don't need Westenthalers. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Now comes the sermon of Father Willi!]] Mr Westenthaler, you're going out here and you're talking for all your parents. – I say to you: The parents do not need Westenthal because they have their own voice. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You protest like that! That's clear!]] You said you were talking for all doctors. – Mr Westenthaler, who needs doctors Your voice is not, because they have their own voice and their own opinion! And, Mr. Westenthaler, you're going here and saying you're talking for all patients. - I'll tell you, too. You don't need the patients because they have their own voice and don't need Westenthalers! First point. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: And Mrs. Kdolsky doesn't need her at all!]] Second point: I believe that you are not only appreciating yourself, but I believe that you appreciate yourself quite enormously. It is interesting that you express your distrust with colleague Kdolsky, but interestingly all the surveys show that the Austrians Andrea Kdolsky trust! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Except for your party!]] You are simply and simply next door, Mr Westenthaler. – But I have no problem with this shot going back, Mr Westenthal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 85 percent of their own people, that's not much!]] Third point: I would say that you are going into something, because you have actually missed any respect in dealing with people with this statement that you have made here. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where?]] And I also expect a minimum of respect for people in the political debate and in the political debate, Mr Westenthaler. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That's what I'm putting on. This is simply a necessary element of democratic culture. And now I'm asking you: What are you saying about mistrust? – Speaking Are you really suspicious of home mind and reason when it comes to the question of the protection of non-smokers? There is a solution in discussion with house mind and reason, also in the innhouses in Austria. – If you have a special experience with host houses in Austria, this is your personal problem, Mr. Westenthaler. But I'm telling you very dry: House mind and reason is at home here, at Andrea Kdolsky! That deserves confidence, Mr Westenthal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Westenthaler, you express distrust when someone takes care to ensure the best health system in the world. . I say to you that this deserves to be trusted if someone has the courage to say: Yes, since we are also willing to discuss a minor increase in the amount of KV, to decide at the end of the day even if at the same time it is saved in the system where savings are possible. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Kdolsky for his excellent report. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Westenthaler, do you express distrust when someone takes care of the health risks in young people? – That’s what I’m telling you. Trust and support! If someone has the courage to open up this discussion too, I am grateful for it! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But the parents see it quite differently! They're complaining!]] The young people in this country are happy that there is someone who also cares about these sensitive and sometimes difficult questions. This deserves confidence, Mr Westenthaler – and no mistrust at all! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And, Mr Westenthaler, do you express your distrust – or do you want to do so; it will remain with you, how often – who takes care of compliance with the laws? – What is that a parliamentarian’s attitude?- Oh, my God! In fact, I thought that Parliament is there, among other things, to consider whether the ministers are complying with the laws in their activities. – Nothing else does Andrea Kdolsky: She adheres to the laws. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Afcassing, cheap downcassing is that, otherwise nothing at all!]] That deserves mistrust after your division?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Cheap downfall with the families!]] What kind of signal are you giving? – A minister, a minister who adheres to laws, deserves confidence because that is the most natural thing in the world, Mr Westenthaler! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It lives the Minister's chief!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Yes, there are critical discussions about the future perspective also in our social security system. – Thank God this discussion leads someone! They won't suddenly cement everything and everyone that was there. I don't know you anymore! In the past, you were still creative and courageous when it came to proposals for reform. [[Abg. Steibl: It's been a long time!]] Today, Mr Westenthaler, you speak out of distrust to a person who gives this courage. What happened to you? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Did you suddenly somehow catch the cowardice? That's what I'm telling you: No, someone who has the courage to also address critical things deserves to be trusted! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Intermediation: Can she speak herself, or are you now the lawyer of her?]] Andrea Kdolsky has this confidence, she's doing great work! Try it more often! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Can she speak herself?]] Mr Westenthaler, try it more often – I would say it will increase the reputation and reputation of Andrea Kdolsky. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: “Mund zu” – sit next to and watch instead of speaking!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I want you to come up with a word!]] Every mistrust you make is going to go back for you and help our Andrea Kdolsky in their work. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Are you the language teacher?]] Thank you for Also with this request of Andrea Kdolsky's work give you real backwind. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Rhetoric teacher is that!]] She would not have needed it, but we do take it as we understand it, namely as an order to express confidence in Andrea Kdolsky in the public. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Can she speak herself? Are you the press speaker?]] – That is exactly what we are doing, Mr Westenthal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To the budget accompanying law. First of all: Many critics have said that we are quite right about the budget. I have already said this in the budget speech and in the debate. We are in a situation of our own: One criticism says it's too much, the other criticism says it's too little. In such a situation, I would say, where an opposition party says it's too little spent, the other opposition party says it's spending too much, that's actually a confirmation: We're right! Our budget rate, ladies and gentlemen, is true: the economical handling of the tax euro on the one hand, investing on the other. The fact that we are reducing the deficits less than planned during the government negotiations shows that we are responding properly; and that we are reducing the overall debt level, which is something that we also need to implement and implement in the interest of young people in this country – and many of them are present today – simply out of our responsibility. Mr Themessl, are you all serious about speaking here and saying that there is no government proposal?- Oh, my God! – Then I ask you: Then why did you even take the floor? – This is a government template that we are discussing today, namely the budget accompanying law! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] – So at least this is what you need to know when you deal with the issues here. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: He will still learn!]] I think you were, if I remember correctly, in the Budgetary Hearing Committee, and, interestingly, the experts there said: Firstly, it is obvious that there are forecasts that go beyond a year. The Wifo predicts 2007, 2008, the Wifo even has a medium-term forecast in the economic outlook up to 2011. – So the criticism that there are forecasts beyond the day I don’t understand at all! What do you want? Do you want us to deal with today only? - No, we're dealing with the morning! And that's the difference: Perhaps you are too busy yesterday, Mr Themessl! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Second, tax reform. – Interesting: All the experts in the budget hearing have given us the right with the budget – in detail some criticism; now, that is not a problem – in the following question: that it is basically right to act anticyclically. We now have a very good economic situation, proud of it! I would also really expect you to respect the principles of economic soundness, which says: In good times, we have to make provision for the budget, we have to save so that we can react properly when the economy becomes a little slower and then support the economic engine with a tax relief. – This is our policy: Do the right thing at the right time! And by the way, all the experts in the hearing also presented that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the question of the budget accompanying law. – A lot has already been said: The reduction in administrative costs, the tax-free allowances for part-time pensions – an important perspective also in the sense of the offensives on the labour market –, the research rate, the focus on Europe and the EEA and on Austria, the securities coverage for pension provisions – an important question in social policy –, the question of transparency in the sales tax field – reverse charge was addressed – all useful measures! Now also an open word on the question of oil tax. – Yes, it is true that we have opted for an increase in the tax on mineral oil, in addition to the extent that we originally set out in the government agreement. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Abzocke is this!]] To that end, Mr Westenthaler, we confess, and if you no longer agree, then sit in the right place. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the question of mineral oil tax, Mr. Westenthaler, you must see the following: We cannot, on the one hand, discuss the climate strategy that challenges from climate policy, but then, when it becomes concrete, say: But that's not it! I ask you: What else? There are few elements such as the mineral oil tax, which is so consumption-oriented – every tinted litre is a driven litre – and therefore also gives the right signal towards climate development. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a climate shame!]] Because we are also doing something meaningful – not in the sense of fiscal consolidation, but strategic – with money, we have first of all defined: The money also supports the ASFINAG and thus preserves the possibility of investment in road construction. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] This helps drivers in this country, and we are also obliged to do so. Second point: We want to give part of the increase in mineral oil tax, which is the one that countries expect, in public transport, so that we can also support climate protection through this investment, that it is easier for people to travel by public transport and thus contribute to climate protection. Thirdly, With revenue – that is what people have to know about what is happening to the money; I am speaking and reply – we are funding the really innovative and modern instrument of the climate fund. Sometimes in discussions I have the impression – and I say this again today – that somehow we are not quite familiar with the euro as far as the dimensions and the effect are concerned. In this year: 50 million €; 50 million € are converted 650 million schilling. – If You make yourself here and say: 650 million schillings in addition to research are nothing!, then I would like to say – and please, Mrs Lichtenecker, say that too, think that –: This is money paid by the taxpayer, so we need to be careful about it and use it properly. Next year, 2008, €150 million is available. So that we also know what we're talking about: €150 million are 2 billion schilling in addition to research and development. That is why I say very openly to you: Yes, we are committed to this increase in the tax on mineral oil, because it is ecologically effective and because we support meaningful future investments with the money, Mr Westenthaler. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What do you plan next with the mineral oil tax?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, that we also hold up the social dimension is shown by the fact that we raise the penalty by 10 per cent; the flat rate to be grammatically correct. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Almosen!]] I don't know who said by the opposition speakers that this was the only increase, but it's obviously forgotten: In recent years, we have raised the penalty rate once by 10 per cent, once by 15 per cent – and now again by 10 per cent. And because we know that those who do not pay a tax would not be taken into account by the shuttle fee, we have, of course, decided, in the sense of this social responsibility, to present this amendment today, that those who do not pay income-respective wage tax also receive a correspondingly necessary and correct suspension with the penalty. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] That's the same way, ladies and gentlemen: Take responsibility and act socially.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e5524	The next item is Mrs Tamandl's speech; six minutes' speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e5545	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Finanzminister on his excellent budget, which we have already done in the first reading, and will also do so in the following, but also, at the end of his remarks, I would like to congratulate him on the penalty of 90 € for those who are unable to benefit from the increase in the rate of 10 % of the penalty due to the fact that they do not pay any tax. Many of my previous speakers today argued rather negatively: that we would not have done anything that we are not doing any tax reform now. – I can tell you, we have done a lot. We have made a tax reform that has caused us particularly low incomes. And who still doesn't know: We have 2.55 million taxpayers in Austria who do not pay any tax at all. I really don't know what you have to scribble over and over again. This is a success, and it has been a success of the last federal government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I already want to put on a differentiation value: With this €90 we have not increased the negative tax, but we have created a penalty, which we have already created in the last tax reform for the children of single-earner families or single-parents, staged by up to three or more children. This too was a surcharge and not an increase in the negative tax. Mr Themessl, you meant that we were not doing tax reform and we were clumsying the businesses as you pointed out. – I wonder if you, as You have been elected to the House, your colleagues have not been informed of what we have done in recent years for entrepreneurs. I can tell you a few things. One of your previous speakers also meant that we now want to abolish the preferential taxation of the profits not collected. - We don't want that at all. On the contrary! The Budgetary Accompanying Act provides for a re-taxation measure which has already been regulated in the process of adoption and which does not represent any renewal at all. With the last tax reform and with all the growth and location packages, we have set a number of measures for entrepreneurs – we remain in favour of taxing profits that are not collected – we remain in the process of 10 % free of revenue-expenditure calculators for non-invested profits up to € 100 000. We reduced corporate tax from 34 percent to 25 percent. – I don’t know why you think we didn’t do anything for entrepreneurs. If you think we should make a tax reform now, staunch pede, then I mean that we are very well prepared for it. We live in the present, but we keep thinking about the future. We show this with our budget, but of course we also show it with our actions. We are very intensively discussing a future tax reform and, of course, we need a lot of considerations. On the one hand, we have already heard from the Committee on Budgets, it is considered that the measures of the last tax reform are being evaluated, that one can see how individual measures have impacted. And, of course, on the other hand, we need to consider: What do we achieve the necessary safety of meeting? For example, my colleague Günter Stummvoll has already addressed a legal form neutral taxation today, and I tell you that, in addition to a legal form neutral taxation, we will also need a form of family taxation in order to really relieve families in this country. The families are partly or most of the middle class, they get our system, they are also those who choose children. We always talk about it, we have to give the families courage to choose children. – We do that, we are the family party! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why we will also find measures for future tax reform, which I am convinced of. Our Minister of Finance and Deputy Chancellor Wilhelm Molterer is a guarantee for this. Finally, Mr Themessl: You said we had so many debts and so on. I can remind you: We pay €7 billion a year only for the interest of the debt of previous years, and that is not the last seven years, but that is the years before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e5618	Mr Bucher has now been spoken; Requested time: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e5640	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The budget-accompanied laws are always an expression of a government's willingness to reform and act, and it is not only the wealth, but also the content of these budget-accompanied laws. It has been criticised several times that we have for the first time a manageable wealth and a manageable content of budget accompanying laws for discussion. I say: A direction designed to provide a government that does not manage budget accompanying laws to a greater extent, a government that sees it as a task and content to forge a modern state from Austria and to continue the successful path of the last eight years, is more doubly, creative and imaginative. I miss that in these budget accompanying laws, because they basically only adapt the rates, valorize, increase taxes, increase taxes. This cannot be the successful and promising path taken by ÖVP and BZÖ in 2000, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. That is why I do not understand, Mr Vice-Chancellor, when you say that in the budget hearing the experts were unisono's opinion: first, consolidate, first clean up the state budget and save, in order to be able to afford a tax reform. That's where we were at the wrong event. We have had two experts who have clearly shown us the way to discharge, who have said: Let's get rid of the taxpayers in Austria! Only when we relieve taxes, does growth go uphill. That is also the way we feel committed. They will remember, in countless discussions and genuinely critical discussions with the government budget, with the tax reforms of recent years, we have always felt the same way, namely that we have to relieve taxpayers of the need to make the state narrower so that we can remain more competitive so that we can create jobs so that we can save costs that we can later return to the citizen. All of this is not apparent in these budget accompanying laws. On the contrary, you put the mineral oil tax up. If you remember that in the near future you will pay €54 million more on mineral oil tax and return only €20 million over the 10-percent increase in the penalty, you will still make a good business by staying €34 million. – This is not fair and fair when you know that today a donor from Oberwart to Vienna is burdened with 240 € per year more. That's why I don't understand you're going here and saying: We increase the negative tax from 110 € to 200 €. This is still a huge loss for the Upper Guard, who by this increase in mineral oil tax pays € 40 per year, and that is not fair. We know – this is confirmed – that 2.55 million Austrians, workers, no longer pay taxes. That's right, they don't pay taxes. But what have those of this increase in the penalty rate by 10 percent, if they do not get to the benefit of this increase, not covered their costs? We have a counter-model here, and we can also present this in the form of a resolution today. We imagine a pounder amount, a charge for the commuting charge – a kind of like the child's allowance – for those commuters who simply don't get along with their costs, in the size of the kilometre charge, with €0.376 per kilometre driven, covered on 60 kilometers per day. This is a real charge for the extra burden on the commuters and leads to the taxpayers not being asked to cash out and that it does not lead to a collapse of the rural area. That would be a real aid to the commuters in our country who are extremely burdened. Consider – because the bourgeois party ÖVP is also constantly being said: We are very much worth the rural area, we are very precious and valuable people in rural areas, and it is about maintaining rural areas, especially agriculture, small and medium-sized enterprises in rural areas. –: What more would it cost us if we were to undermine rural areas by this extra burden on the commuters? We have 1.5 million commuters in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Over 2!]] Of these 1.5 million counterparts, 600 000 are bound to their own cars. 600 000 have to drive the car to work. Think of this size and take into account in your considerations what this means for these counterparts. With the 10 per cent penalty rate Don't fix this pain these comrades have to suffer. Follow our proposal to provide a donor aid that will finally make more money available to the donor than can be done with this penalty. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is not just a core requirement of the BZÖ and the FPÖ if we are talking about a tax reform, especially a preference of tax reform. Two experts in the budget hearing have also become aware of this. Let us only draw on the critical opinions of the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce or of the ÖGB representatives. There was a Federal Congress at the ÖGB. Remember, the ÖGB representatives here in the SPÖ Group! They have decided that tax reform should be promoted to 2008. Or did we question about that? Or did the journalists do a bad research? They want to prefer tax reform before 2010, just as we consider it to be correct, just as the Chamber of Commerce does. If you are obliged to commit your organisations to your members, then join our proposal – in the form of a motion for a resolution that we are submitting today – to achieve a preferential effect of the tax reform. We are convinced that two key areas in the tax system need to be changed, namely the imbalance of corporate taxation, a core requirement also of the Economic Federation. It is not to be seen that companies in Austria pay different taxes. We say that it must succeed through the bypass of legal form neutrality in Austria, that all companies, whether agricultural or forestry or commercial, pay a uniform 25 percent tax. This is possible, it can also be financed, as we have seen about the last Köst reduction. This leads to more growth, which also leads to us becoming more competitive. Or: the long-term wage and income tax adjustment. Here we say that only from an income of € 84 000 grossly should you fall into the 50 percent tax and not from € 51 000 income per year. That would finally be the cold position of the cold progression. We have not done anything in this area since 1988, soon it will be 20 years. An urgent tariff adjustment is necessary and necessary. We must finally do this in order to relieve the performance-oriented middle class. The performance-oriented medium, which is always the case, of all the parties, we have neglected in recent years. Finally, it is a relief, because the money that the middle class retains from the state goes directly into consumption. More consumption increases growth, increases employment in our country and secures social prosperity. That must be our interest, ladies and gentlemen, this way of discharge we feel committed – and not the way of managing our state, as expressed in this budget accompanying law, which we will not support. [[OBJECTIVES]] – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e5692	Mr Bucher, only to clarify: They have spoken of motions for resolutions, but they have not been brought in. [[Abg. Bucher nodds.]] - Okay. The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Gartlehner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e5720	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Mr State Secretary! Mrs. Federal Minister Kdolsky, please excuse me for having been so committed to the budget. Today, we are discussing a budget – a first budget of this new federal government – and many have had great concerns that this federal government is also creating a reasonable budget in its disharmonies, which initially existed. Mr Bucher, at the moment, criticises that the amount of budget accompanying laws and the extent and volume of these budget accompanying laws are too small, and points out, or suspects, that due to this fact, there is too little dynamic in this federal government. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] I note that ladies and gentlemen, these two gentlemen, M. and M., who are responsible for the financial policy of our country, have presented a very good, detailed budget. It is of a quality that has led to the need for budgetary accompanying laws, i.e. intervention during the budgetary negotiations, to this extent. I am really pleased with this budget approach, as we are discussing it today. Taxation is here, it's perfectly clear. It can be very difficult to demand ecological measures from the state and at the same time be against tax increases that can be taxed or regulated. That is, the Möst question is not the question: Is it the hen or is it the egg? It is simply necessary to invest in climate change measures in Austria in addition to acquiring additional funds. In this way, it is a reasonable and very intelligent method to make research policy, climate policy, technology policy, and I am convinced that there will be so-called double dividends, because this money will not only benefit climate protection in Austria, but also give a big leap to research and technology in Austria. In this sense, I also think I have to say that the tax reform envisaged for 2010 is one or even the first tax reform in the Second Republic that people themselves have developed and deserved. That is to say, we will implement this tax reform at a time that ensures that, after this tax reform, we do not automatically re-establish heavy budget losses. In this sense: I think we have a reasonable double budget for the years 2007/2008. We know, of course, that the situation on the market is very good, that the economy is booming across Europe, we are participating in it, but nevertheless, or precisely that: a proper approach for these years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e5763	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e5784	Mr President. Dear Mrs Health Minister! Minister for Education! Mr. State Secretary! Unfortunately, Mr Vice-Chancellor is no longer there; in fact, Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance should be able to continue to argue here. I'm really taking him by the word. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In contrast to his predecessor, who has been very busy in NLP formulations in particular, I take him entirely on the floor, Molterer has argued. [[Abg. Grillitsch: Do you trust the Minister of Finance?]] I am now responding to this argument. Argument one was: Degradation of debt. – Ladies and gentlemen, please read the accompanying booklet, the budget report, and look at Table 21! There you will see where the debt is greatly increased by your government in this period – keyword infrastructure. Mr. Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance negates the debt which he has accumulated to us in the infrastructure until 2010, in the infrastructure street above all, which is completely counterproductive on the aspect of climate protection. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] I would like to discuss climate change and climate protection with Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance, but he is no longer here. [[Abg. Grillitsch: This has never been done for climate protection as now!]] I say clearly: Molterer reduces debt instead of debt. He's looking at his own budget report on page 101! Argument number two: Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance said he was essential to research, innovation. Now I'm looking at where the billions are going. Mrs Minister, we have discussed more often, you for education, look at a Wifo study! I've lifted these today: Wifo White Paper, Model Simulation on the Wifo White Paper on Growth and Employment. Read again! Public investment in research and development – Mr. Col. Stumbling is no longer there, even today he has spoken about innovation – is useful in the long term, in the medium and long term, as well as investment in education, the Wifo confirms with simulation and model calculations. But where is investment? – 10 billion in the infrastructure sector, most of which in the street. Read more about what the Wifo in the simulation bill accurately notes about this investment sector and also critically notes – I can quote the accuracy in the meantime –: In the long term, growth rates in infrastructure investment do not have a lasting growth effect, but only increase the level of GDP compared to the basic solution. - Quote. That's it! And Mr Molterer, Minister of Finance and Finance, says: No debt, and we are investing where it is most useful for the people. – I can disprove both thanks to the various technical opinions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Donabauer.]] Now on another subject of discussion, which is very much at the heart of today's debate, the Minister for Finance also refers to the increase in the tax on mineral oil. The Minister of Finance has pointed out that this benefits the climate. He also pointed out the benefit of the ASFINAG. Now I ask, Minister of Finance: What is the ASFINAG doing for climate protection? Do you tell me that motorway construction, that the North motorway, that the Lobau motorway, that various motorway projects – Traisental et cetera – are climate-promoting?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Grill: Don't forget the S 36!]] No, just the opposite is the case! [[Abg. Grill: That's not true!]] We know the traffic is climate killer number one. Investment in motorway construction is climate killer investment! This is climate killer investment, and this is what Mr. Minister does with the Most. Moreover, he said, the country's share is used for public transport. – His word in God’s ear, his word in the ear of the Lord’s Chief of State, Pühringer, Voves et cetera. That is what I am looking at, because the Minister of Finance has always said in the Committee on Budgets that there will be a political agreement on this use of the most share of countries. And we know what political agreements are worth: zero commander Joseph, nothing, they are for the sausages’! If non-legislative requirements apply if no contractual agreements with a genuinely valid character are concluded, this will be of no use at all. The countries will consider the Möst money as a basket money for the budget. You're in budget trouble. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] What we want – climate protection, expansion of public transport, supply to the commuters, improved bus connections, cycle traffic, train connections, better vehicle material, better timetables, cheaper tariffs – all that I need to advance climate protection in the transport sector, what I need so that people can change what I need so that people no longer need the shuttle fee in the sense of supporting drivers is not guaranteed. That's on tone feet, that's word in God's ear, that's more or less fog-throwing here in the National Council. We do not believe this, Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance. Now quite specific to the discussion stress of the commuters. – Yes, they are burdened, but I ask you: By what? Because of injustices, massive injustices that you do not face today with the increase in the negative tax rate by 90 million! People who deserve little, who have to go to work for a very long time, more often from the rural area, Mr Grillitsch, who get out of this pre-emptive solution. In contrast to this delicate increase in the amount of 90 million sockets in the negative tax, we need a total changeover. Yeah, I'm for that. Get away with the shuttle fee, with a fair mobility fee! We need mobility money for those who use public transport. Look at how unfair the shuttle fee is! All you need to do is look at: ÖV pendulums will only get money if they commute over 20 km. The passenger car can get money if it only commutes over 2 km. This is a completely crazy climate change and also a traffic policy! That's what you're going to extend. If I drive with ÖV over 20 km, I get exactly 495 € per year. You can read that in the tax legislation. If I pendle by car over 20 km, then I get 1 071 € per year. Please, that's more than double. And then you say you're doing something for climate protection. You punish the donor or the donor who uses public transport, and you reward the donor or the donor who is on the road by car. And that's exactly the twofold that runs through a wide range of subjects when applying the criterion of climate protection, for example at the Pendler Pauschale. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tamandl.]] We Greens are in favour of a fair solution, namely for a general mobility fee, where at last those people who use the oil are treated equally and where finally – and that is the most important thing for me! – public transport is expanded by means of most, which is massively expanded, not by Peanuts, but by at least 100 to 200 million per year. This is an investment necessity in the field of oil, and I do not think it is necessary to do so in the ASFINAG, because this is going in the wrong direction. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Grillitsch: Who should build the streets then?]] In conclusion: The Minister of Finance and Vice-Chancellor spoke of his taking responsibility in any case and acting socially at the same time. That was, as it were, his final exchange rate. I was able to clearly prove that neither responsible nor socially acting on the basis of the example of the Pendler Pauschale. [[Abg. Grill: Both: eco-social! Eco-social budget!]] I believe that we have to put a massive strain on the reform lever, especially in the debate on the eco-social tax reform, where we have to put the entire level of car taxation on new legs, where we need justice through eco-bonus money, and where we finally need to give people what they really need in view of climate change, in view of rising energy prices: a right to soft and solar mobility! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e5938	The next speaker is Mr Jakob Auer. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e5963	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies ministers! High house! The 2007 Budgetary Accompanying Act offers the opportunity and the opportunity to hold a fundamental debate on the policy of this federal government, which it intends to pursue – and that is this budget. First, however, I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of you very much for the very fair and constructive discussion in the Committee on Budgets: with all my colleagues, no matter what group, but especially with my alternates Weinzinger, Ing. Gartlehner and Dr. Sonnberger, but also with the ladies and gentlemen of the Legal Service and also with the staff of the clubs. It was indeed a very objective, very constructive and very interesting debate. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! To the colleague Westenthaler, who today said that he would have to express his distrust of his group to our Federal Minister Kdolsky: As we know, he has not been in Parliament in the last four years and may not know, therefore, whether he has said it: Given the performance of some of his colleagues here, we have every reason to be proud of our Federal Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One thing has been clearly stated: The Austrian health system is one of the best in the world. And if you don't believe it, you should ask yourself. I am convinced that our new Federal Minister will continue to do excellent work here. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] The constructive contribution of the colleague Lichtenecker to the restoration of old loads was very interesting; nothing is added to this. It's like this: It's quite positive! If you've heard interested, you have to say: Mr Bucher's contribution was also very constructive in itself. I've only noticed one thing: He did not defend his Clubobmann Westenthal with any syllables, who did some – rightly, I mean – of our vice chancellor has to be plugged in. There, too, appears to be graves. Now I come to the budget accompanying law, ladies and gentlemen, and first of all I would like to say: I am also pleased about the very critical contribution by Mr Rossmann, who here said that the budget accompanying law should have been constructed much more unfathomable, so to speak, that there should have been more opportunities. – Interesting! In 2003, you were, Mr Rossmann, not yet a Member of Parliament, at the time you were an expert on the Greens, and if I remember your contributions, which you at the time, as an expert – and I do not dispute that you are – you provided, I think that at the time you had massive criticism of the scope of the budget accompanying law – 96 laws were then included, provided I still have it properly in mind. At the time, we had to put in massive criticism where it was said that not everything had been packed into this law. Interesting, I can only say because this time it is a direct comparison, because this time it is in direct connection with the budget impact documents. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Rossmann.]] Mr Rossmann also said that we had been looking for a long time in the budget until the climate fund was found. – Yes, he is right, but it would also have been sufficient to listen to the remarks in the budget deliberations. It was clearly pointed out that there would be an amendment to this. Mr Rossmann, you have experienced this in good time. Don't pretend it wasn't said! Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this climate fund shows the right direction. Of course, one can argue about whether it should not be more. Undisputed, no question at all! But if one complains that the increase of the most is too much, the other of this step is too little, then the golden middle will already vote. Clearly, climate protection is the same as in road construction in the municipalities: Everyone is for it, except for it itself! Then he says: Do it with the others! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As far as climate protection is concerned, your group, Mr Rossmann, is not so credible. You know, my community is the neighboring community of Lambach, and there was once a beautiful hydropower station. It's not been that long. Calls You remember or at least ask yourself about the behaviour of your group in connection with this hydroelectric power station. Then you'll see how credible you are. – Be more credible! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Perhaps it would also be appropriate to ask all the Members of this House how their own house or their own apartment is heated with what form of energy. That would be a very interesting thing! Then you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, could tell more about climate protection here! [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] They should not only talk about the renewable forms of energy, but also about other energy sectors. I would like to see the credibility in my own house start. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] – Mrs Glawischnig, you have not been excellent in connection with the power plant Lambach! That has been clearly remembered to you once again! Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased about this budget accompanying law and find it very interesting. A number of aspects have already been raised and presented in detail by my colleagues. I should like to thank the former Chancellor and current clubman Dr. Schüssel and our Federal Minister Pröll, who have achieved sensational issues in connection with rural areas in Brussels. It should be mentioned here: the opportunities of farmers, the opportunities of LEADER projects for the regions, the opportunity to collect every euro in Brussels through national security. This is especially commendable and is clearly mentioned. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you, ladies and gentlemen, criticize one or the other, I would ask you: Compare growth in Europe, in the euro area! Compare inflation internationally! Compare Austria's unemployment with that of the other EU countries! Also compare the creation of new jobs in Austria! In particular, compare the tax rates in Austria with those in Germany! Compare also economic growth in Austria, the success of the Austrian Stock Exchange and many other areas! This is, of course, a legacy and an effect of a very positive and good policy in recent years. We want them to continue! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6099	The next speaker is Mrs Rosenkranz. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6120	Federal Chancellor! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mr President. High house! It is against you, Mrs Federal Minister Kdolsky, that there is a motion of censure, and I will therefore try to explain the extent to which you deserve our trust from a family-political point of view. So far, in these first 100 days of government, what have you seen from you? – It was little in direct political work, although this resort would actually demand that a family minister, who is appointed, immediately begin his work, put concepts on the table, be aware of the urgency and priority of this subject. But you've experienced the usual. That was one thing in the budget debate: There is now a need to create childcare facilities for under three years old. More you have actually not seen from the content of your family policy. Mrs Kdolsky, you have focused above all on a policy of self-representation. They have brought a certain entertainment value into politics. Mr. Vice-Chancellor has defended you with the words that you have acted with home mind and reason, and has also referred to your activity to avoid health risks in young people. Mr Vice-Chancellor, you may have meant the condom action. I'll tell you: That was not a sense of mind and reason, but it was simply unbearable and embarrassing! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This was a sacrifice to young people, as it is quite contrary to me as a middle-aged person. The reaction of my own children was: For God's sake, hopefully something like this doesn't happen to us at school! And I wouldn't even wipe it out of the table because parents protest that their children have to act with politicians. [[Call the ÖVP: A parent!]] I'm very upset when it happens here and there. I think it's an unreasonable collection of children in school. Would you like me with your children in one of the schools where Your kids are being photographed? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I'm taking a break, but you're doing it! And you're protesting! [[Call at the SPÖ: There's a difference!]] Oh, there's a difference? That's really interesting! That's incredible! – So I think you should stop doing party propaganda in schools. You'll be easy when you say that a parent protests. Believe me, it's very contrary to many. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Kdolsky, Mr Vice-Chancellor, also said that you were courageous. Mr Vice-Chancellor, did you perhaps mean that Mrs Federal Minister Kdolsky is now opening up such issues as a gender partnership that is legally registered? I'll tell you: That's not brave! This is the total turning to that and the final total adaptation to what is called the Zeitgeist! And by the way, it is the old bourgeois suffering: You have a homicide with it when you finally arrived where the left one wants you since 1968! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle Mag. Molterer.]] [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: Mrs. Rosary, don't be fooled!]] No, I'm not cheating, I'm watching. It is, I think, also a difference between us and you: They are very skillful and very trained in mastering the so-called craftsmanship of power. You're doing well. However, you do not care what content you represent – and there you are deceived! If the divorcing partyobmann, Klubobmann Schüssel said at your party meeting: Unfortunately, we have not succeeded in making it clear that we are a family party!, then I must say: What a misunderstanding! That's not a bad sale, you're perfect. I know this from Lower Austria. You invest grand sums – by the way also from public resources – and you have good advertising consultants, no question at all, but it is not a matter of selling, but you are not the family party! You haven't been! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: The FPÖ is not!]] This applies particularly to homosexual partnerships. I prophesy to you and warn you: With the argument that you don't want this on the one hand, because marriage is supposed to have an exclusive position, but on the other hand you want to avoid discrimination, you're already on the wrong track! You have to be as honest as that: If no discrimination, then no discrimination! You are also ill placed when it comes to, for example, granting the right of adoption. There is then no argument against it, because: No discrimination is discrimination! Sometimes one must have the courage – which, as is known, is not necessarily the first bourgeois virtue – to discuss things in principle. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You are not a bourgeois party!]] We're holding on to this. The marriage that is aimed at children is because it is aimed at children to get in a privileged position! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Same-sex life partnerships do not do that! The two things are in no way equal or comparable, and therefore different treatment is not only justified but necessary. – Come only in this way You're through! You won't dare. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] House mind and reason for a family minister would have promised finally to take note of the demographic alarm situation. It would have been fair to call together those scientists who say how to end the matter, how to achieve a trend change and that above all, one can solve the demographic problem only if one strengthens the families. House mind and reason would have said that it was clear that families in the rich Austria should still choose between children or participation in prosperity. In the case of workers' families, per capita income with the second child falls below the poverty line; in the case of workers' families, this is the case with the third child. It would have been really hard to say: We are devoting the additional tax revenue that has been generated as a result of economic activity to a massive tax relief for families! We now see family division as the first and priority goal! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] House mind and reason would have said that one takes into account the statements and wishes of parents who say: We love to care for our smallest children in the family! It would have been a must to oppose the demands of the economy, which naturally wants the availability of young mothers for the labour market, and the requirements your coalition partner places on you, which here represents, for ideological reasons, a feminist view: No, for us, first of all, the child welfare and second of all the desire of young parents is the most important point on which we are guiding our family policy! You didn't do all that! The family resort is a key resort – and we do not believe you are the right one for it!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6288	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Trunk. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6309	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Very, very valued ministers! Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. In short, Mrs Rosenkranz: The fact that you have a completely different attitude in family policy is a question of democracy. This is for you, as it is for us to have another. [[Abg. Rosary: Thank you!]] [[Abg. Thank you! Generous!]] What is not yours – which is not yours, too, Mr. Party Chairman of the FPÖ – is that woman counts only then or only then, or only then, if you have proved that you have put a child in the world. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Mrs has the right to independence and free choice. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What Mrs Rosenkranz does not agree with at all is to discriminate against woman without a child. – You are not allowed to do so, even in a democracy! [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: A little more materiality, less feminism!]] On the question under the ‘Condom Action’ accelerator: As and in what form, it is one thing, that must each and everyone decide for themselves. I recall the excitement that many years ago the Minister of Health has aroused Ausserwinkler with his education campaign for condoms and prevention against AIDS, and I must say: I think every such excitement and excitement is important because it contributes to the formation of consciousness and to the fight. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But you sent the outsider into the desert! Why did you send him to the desert? You saw him yourself! This is a threat: the fate of aliens!]] I stand for prevention instead of tabooing, as you are trying to do, Mr President. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now to the Budgetary Accompaniment Act: In contrast to Mr Bucher and the BZÖ and the FPÖ, I think it is excellent that this budget accompanying law only provides for legislative measures that actually have something to do with the budget. – That’s the positive! Colleague Bucher longs for the times of his colleague and friend Grasser, where we have packed, hidden, hidden everything in the budget accompanying law in Bausch and Bogen, which actually does not belong to it. I do not find it positive – but this is a task for the future – that there is neither in the budget accompanying law nor in the budget and measures for the federal contribution to the creation of comprehensive and needs-oriented childcare facilities. On the other hand, I find the fact that there is a plus of 28.8 percent of funding compared with the 2006 budget, with the revision of the Student Aid Act, including the funding for study funding. This is an important pillar for a new path in which the Austrian youth has more and more just opportunities in the field of training. I regret that there has been criticism of a very courageous approach by the Minister of Education and Art, who is ready – and this is also part of the budget accompanying law – to bear full responsibility for art and culture budgets. I call it transparency and responsibility, which can be established, others have had quite a lot of fogged in the past, have not provided for transparency, and it has not even been possible to deal with it. A second area: I would like to see this procedure of the Minister of Art as an example, particularly in the economic sector and in the tourism sector. There is a variety and variety of subsidies and subsidies, but the majority of those entitled and non-applicants concerned rightly complain that these funding structures are actually quite nebulos or, charmingly said, are very often in the dark. As transparency has to be demonstrated, it would be beneficial, even for small and medium-sized enterprises to be used. My political culture corresponds – no more time – to the criticism that I last attached to the budget accompanying law to comparing what is going on today. I see with the budget accompanying law and the budget clear approaches to a perspective in which social justice, social compensation and, above all, human beings are at the heart of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6417	Mrs Haubner's next speech. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6438	Mr President. Highly esteemed ministers on the government bank! High house! It is old-known that the budget is a policy cast in figures, and as my colleague Bucher has said, this budget is one that manages more than it is. The budget is carried by a government that has talked a lot in the first hundred days, has talked very differently, has always been disunited and has done little concrete, except from massive burdens on one side to mere announcements on the other. [[Abg. May. Trunk: Are you talking about yourself?]] [[Abg. May. Trunk: Are you talking about the government you heard?]] [[Abg. ==References====External links== May. Where are the directorial templates today? There's no one!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Street: ( towards SPÖ) After super! A hundred days of government and no government documents!]] This budget, ladies and gentlemen, is a mogel pack in which the main losers are the taxpayers in Austria. Tax revenue – it has been mentioned a few times – is increasing blatantly by a good economic growth, but the additional revenue is not passed on to taxpayers, but just before the election one promises a small discount. This government with this budget works according to the motto: Charge now, release later! It's called stress now, so it's called for the health system. And if Mr. Vice-Chancellor says that the Austrians like to pay in addition, I wonder who he asked, because I don't hear that the Austrians are happy that they will have to increase 0.15% health insurance contributions in the future before all the savings potential in structural reform have been exhausted, such as other combinations of social security institutions as well as the reduction of double-tracks and interface problems. Here, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Health Minister, you seem to have left the courage again, because tax increases, insurance contributions are certainly the easier way of resolving the problems internally. In contrast, the old government agreed at the time to save €400 million from social security funds. I wonder, What happened until then? And how will you continue? Or: the cost of the medication. – Why is there not a halvion of VAT here, because drugs, medicines are vital goods for many people? In order for this health system to remain the best in the world, I would like to wish, Mrs Health Minister, that you invest in it, that you use your energies there, and not in very plausible actions like the condom distribution in schools that have already been mentioned several times. I see here an important task for the schools for education, for sex, that is undisputed, only I believe that you need to know where to exceed the threshold, where there is a massive intervention also to parents' rights. And this should also be considered as a politician and as a minister. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, people expect political confidence and not daily new uncertainties, as is the case in the care sector. There are various 24 hour care models with different costs, with different dates, with different types of implementation, with different recommendations from the countries. An overall approach to care is far and wide not visible, and budget resources will only be made available if countries and municipalities participate. What is it for a social policy that shifts care on the Sankt-Nimmerleins day? And what is that for a social policy that does not provide for the urgently needed increase in the amount of care for 2007 and 2008 budget? Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrians expect politics but also the framework conditions so that the family can live in all its diversity. The previous line of government, politics – and here the BZÖ has a significant share – has always been that children are a preparation in life, that we must do everything we can to strengthen families to think about how we can strengthen families financially in terms of social law. This was the mainstream of politics in recent years, but now, when I look at the discussions over the last few weeks, I have a very strong impression that it is actually difficult for families to live and that we are considering and discussing how to prevent children. Subject: Absorbation on health certificate, subject: Pill after that. Here, Mrs Minister, I would have expected a very clear word from you that you, as a family minister, would be here and say: We must do everything we can to give courage and joy to children in the future. It is, as you know, increasingly the opinion – not only in your own party, but also in experts – that real flexibilization of child care money can only be called the abolition of the limit of merit. The argument of non-intelligibility is simply not applicable to these sprinkling tax revenues, because ultimately any investment in families that are satisfied to raise the children who care for old people, a strong basis for society, for the economic location, and we get back x-fold what we invest there. That is why I would have expected your courage, your courage and your unconventional behaviour, which you have demonstrated very often. Here, too, I would have expected your courage to say: In retrospect, let us remove the limit of trust – similar to that made by the past government in the grant of children – and let us decide within the meaning of the families! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The BZÖ has no confidence in this budget, the BZÖ has no confidence in this government, because discharges for citizens are far removed. We will oppose this large-scale tax and ban policy our ideas with a strong family orientation, with strong social orientation as a very solution-oriented, very responsible opposition in this House, which in the past as a government party has made important, positive choices, many people in Austria still benefit from today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6539	From the government bank, Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Kdolsky spoke. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6560	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! – Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler, I may try here shortly to dissuade the points you have put forward on the subject, perhaps with respect to you some information from my department or from my ministry. In order to refuse the abolition of the commitment limit: Yes, the child care allowance with its commitment limit was also decided under the then competent Federal Minister Head of State in 2001 with the votes of the BZÖ, formerly part of the FPÖ. In contrast to the old pension scheme, this has led to an enormous increase in the possibility of adjudication, formerly at the low level. This has not only led to an improvement in the compatibility of work and family, but has also made an effective contribution to the risk of poverty. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A status report from the Austrian Institute for Family 2003 said that the introduction of child care allowance doubled the proportion of employees above the level of poverty. But it is also said – and I am now about to abolish it – that real father participation in childcare we want is guaranteed only by a commitment limit. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Right the other way!]] In spite of full employment, fathers would continue to receive money without any actual care, mothers would still not be able to go to the labour market, and we have therefore also taken the experts into account. [[Abg. I'm sorry, but that's what the families are supposed to do.]] I would just like to say to the administrative costs: This is not €100 million, but €11 million. With regard to the recovery of child payment, I would like to point out that it is not about punishment, but about restoring the law-compliant state. The removal from recovery contradicts the principle of legality and would therefore be illegal. Any recovery may also be made by no one from the bright sky, for each applicant, each applicant, knew at the time of the application that the limit of merit should be respected. A retroactive abolition would not only be the wrong signal to the citizen in itself, parents who have adhered to these limits have already announced claims for damages to the Republic in this case. Taking into account the abuses I have repeatedly made against me – which I do far from me, because everyone who is a little busy in this area knows that abuse means something else and something terrible: It was not a party political event, I received, in my responsibility as a doctor and as a health minister, terrifying figures on the spread of diseases transmitted by sex in Austria on my desk. I'm just saying, Two years ago we had zero syphilis cases in Austria, we already have more than 600 – in Germany it is 20,000 – and the forecast is 2 500. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Especially among the fourteen years old!]] It is my job, in line with 15 to 15 years of age, who have very much discussed with me, to give this information. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: Responsibility is in demand!]] And the reactions here in the House show me that this reconnaissance is still necessary, because there must be someone who addresses these issues in a technical and socio-political manner. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The parents' reactions should be important to you!]] The demand for a general legal ban on smoking has never come from me. On the contrary: I have always expressed my support for the fact that those areas of non-smokers protection and the separate spaces between non-smokers and smokers in the gastronomy defined in the Government Convention are being implemented. We have reviewed a voluntary self-restriction of gastronomy and will publish the figures here on Friday at a press conference. The fact is that I was the first to bring the Spanish model for restoration plants under 75 square meters into the Austrian discussion, where there is a voluntary determination of the respective gastronomy, whether he wants to operate a non-smoking or a smoking site. Mr Klubobmann, it is a social-politically different discussion. If I had really demanded total non-smoking protection, the other side would have resisted it. I am not talking about smokers or non-smokers, we are here against any form of discrimination, but we are for non-smokers protection – and this in close cooperation with the gastronomy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Taxation policy by increasing health insurance contributions: Those who argue in this way do not understand the Austrian social system in my view, because the contributions that an insured person pays are calculated from the individual basis of contributions, the earnings of work. 7.5 percent of these are the contribution rate. This results in an individually different amount of KV contribution, depending on the level of earnings and therefore socially balanced. If the KV contribution rate is now increased by 0.15 percentage points, this means, for example, a monthly increase of one euro and 50 cents for an insured person with 1 000 € gross wage, of which only part of the employee and the other part of the employer must be paid. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But it is an increase!]] I would just like to point out to you that you have spoken of it as being in the budget accompanying law today. It is not in the budget accompanying law, because we have not implemented it, because this increase by 0.15 percent has agreed on the submission of precisely those proposals by the social partners, which lead to the efficient delivery of an additional €150 million. And we're just talking about it. On the subject of VAT and drugs, I would also like to say that this issue is being misinterpreted and debated in the light of ignorance of the legislation. The fact is: In Austria we have a high rate of VAT on medicinal products, but for the financing of social security, this is secondary, as the Health and Social Aid Act replaces the expenditure on VAT, however high these are, by the Ministry of Finance. For the patients whom you, Mr. Klubobmann, repeatedly point out, who receive the cost of the medication through social insurance, the amount, especially with the prescription medicines, is not significant, as only the prescription fee is to be paid. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But not everything!]] With regard to a Vigilance Center and an increase in the recipe fee, we are not quite different, it is even planned to cover this recipe fee in the Government Convention. Why is a Vigilance cent necessary? A Vigilance Center, as the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs has already mentioned, is necessary in order to guarantee drug safety – safe, healthy – and I believe that, in a convention in the Council of Ministers, we have jointly ensured that it is not the individual consumer, but that, in the case of non-introduction, the industry and the manufacturers are informed here. You have obviously read out this addition, which is here. On the topics of health insurance reform and hospital hospitals: I think there has never been a confusion here, because it was very clear that this was always about harmonizing the performance, and the discussion is that we are first developing service catalogues. The fact is that this is a project of this kind and I therefore deliberately also saw 2009 as an objective and the talks with everyone are now taking place together. What's more, It will also be possible to think in politics at times too modern and progressive without immediately being criticized for it. The fact is that the chaos course in hospital hospitals has definitely never taken place in this form, because we have never spoken of abolishing hospital ambulances, it was even about strengthening the hospital ambulances in the special ambulance area. It was about putting performance shifts into the extramural area, which is excellent for business and economic reasons, but above all guarantees the local care of patients, which ultimately gives the patient the best quality directly on the spot and gives the established doctor the opportunity to upgrade his position. It was always associated with the statement that a benefit follows money and that, of course, the financing of the established area must also be guaranteed. Controlling funding and planning from a regional point of view is the only chance to really build up, improve and maintain a comprehensive health system here. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] ==References== ASVG-Novelle I can say that it has just been discussed, that it will soon be brought into the Council of Ministers and, as has been said, it has not yet been brought in. It is a normal process that, after a review, the opinions will be reviewed and a solution will be negotiated with the coalition partner and subsequently transferred to the Council of Ministers. It is true that this draft assessment provided for a commitment to guidance, but for a good reason: This amendment is necessary on the basis of a statement from the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has explicitly proposed the obligation to provide guidance as the only possible solution. At this time, representatives of the Austrian Medical Chamber are working together with my experts from the Ministry and working out these points for a proposal for the Council of Ministers. If I'm told that nothing happened in 100 days, I'll tell you the following: Novelle of the Youth Welfare Act: The assessment period is 20 years. It's on April 2nd, that's what happened on April 2nd. May to the Council of Ministers. Animal transport law: The review ends in the first week of May. Tissue safety law: That's since 23. April in peer review. There are clear rules in Austria for the application, storage and processing of human cells and tissues for the first time. Observance limit: the indication that this brings back security for the legal structure of the families and for the legal security of the families. There is an invitation, in common with the minister responsible for this cross-sectional matter, to a meeting in mid-May on childcare and thereafter, before the summer, talks with the representatives of the countries. Non-smoking: The voluntary evaluation has been completed, it has been checked. The results will be presented on Friday. A corresponding preparation of a legislative amendment to the Tobacco Act is in preparation. Electronic health record: ==References== The decisions for the next steps of implementation will be implemented in May. Coverage of recipe fees: The main association has already developed seven solutions, which are currently being checked for their cost quality by the end of next or next week: 0.15 percentage points contribution increase plus € 150 million efficiency enhancement package. The financial security of health insurance funds is provided by the social partners. I think that a lot of work has been done here in my department – also thanks to the good support of all those associated with it. Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler, let me say something personal: I'm not going to have a discussion here, whether I'm a child or not, because I don't think that's in this room. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Should you? You're a family minister!]] But I'll tell you something: I have enjoyed participating in a benefit event for the CliniClowns, for sick children, so that they laugh and so that we can give them the opportunity to continue in this regard. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There you were not the only one who participated!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6758	The next speaker is Dr. Maier. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6779	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! I would like to congratulate Mrs Bundesminister Kdolsky on these clarifications. You have to be glad that there are guys like Peter Westenthaler, otherwise you can't make these clarifications right now, as you, Mrs. Minister, have met them. I also believe that Mr Klubobmann – who unfortunately went out – should be called: That's the style that's chosen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A policy of precepts, a policy of findings that go beyond reality, a policy of allegations that are unrealistic – I can only say: If that's the style, I think it's a terrible thing. And in view of the reply given by Mrs. Federal Minister, it would be time for him to call up his club and ask if he should not withdraw the urgents. It's a shame that this emergency was brought in at all. The reply by the Federal Minister also showed which mistake this party goes. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the debate on the budget accompanying laws, of course, it is also a little to be analysed, as these 100 days of this government were. We have recently experienced a number of press conferences, in which these 100 days were described. I have read the statements made by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, and he has said: These 100 days were good 100 days! I thought – and it interests me –: How does this man measure these days and what does he compare these days? Probably he compares the comfort at the Ballhausplatz to the Löwelstraße – may be, probably better. Or also the question between opposition work and government work. But you know, when he's talking about good 100 days, I don't know exactly if he's still in memory every 100 days. I remember, for example, that some time later in March, the Social Democratic government group convened a separate clause. This was actually just a contribution to increasing the disorientation of this group. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Marizzi.]] Mr Marizzi – and I see the highest coordinator of the government in the office of the Federal Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Austria – is also to be said: If Mr. Vice-Chancellor had not completed the double budget a few days before, there would have been nothing in this government clause except the message that the government was driving the federal railways. So, if this is all the German Chancellor has to offer in his coordination task, this will be a little too little for the next 100 days – or how long it will always be projected into the future. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Marizzi.]] However, I also recall, Mr Marizzi, that the Federal Chancellor has moved to Brussels to complete his visit to the Commission. He came here as Mr. Gusenbauer; he returned as “Mr. Barolo”. We really did not have to do this, that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Austria talks about the EU President of the Commission as “Mr Barolo” at a press conference! [[Abg. Strache: Now shine with level!]] This may have a connection, but is certainly not related to the arrival visit of the Austrian head of government to the European Commission! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But I also believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it is also very difficult to come to Brussels and then be asked: [[Abg. Strache: There even the vice chancellor is generated behind you!]] What do you have for one now? – Mr Gusenbauer was and has been very sympathetic to me, especially from his time as opposition leader, so I have also protected him. There may, of course, be some mistakes, you're right! But in the future you should be careful about how to act on foreign policy terrain, but also domestically. In the country, for example, to say that the possible deal – now it looks a little different – at Böhler-Uddeholm... So, go there and say [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] [[Abg. May. Rossmann: Budgetary Support Act is on the agenda!]] This is a disaster!, I think – I have already said it here anyway – for a disaster. By the way, you should also see that, Mr Marizzi. You could also say about it: That was a disaster, what Dr. Gusenbauer said! But let me just briefly – I don't have much speaking time anymore – point to something very interesting! I'm loading You include: Look You are looking at the forecasts in Germany! Since there is a federal government there with the participation of the CDU/CSU, there is not only growth, but the forecasts have even been raised to 2.7 percent, further into the future. The conclusion is that Red-Green left a chaos there, and only through the entry of the CDU/CSU into the government did this turn out. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Now we just need to ask: What would it mean if the SPÖ ruled with you or without you and would not have the opportunity to have such a strong man as Minister of Finance Willi Molterer in the ranks of the government? [[towards Greens]] That looks like the social democracy in Vienna. It was already pointed out today... – Listen to me! [[Abg. Brosz: Can you talk what he wants?]] [[Abg. May. Rossmann: To the budget accompanying law still a sentence!]] They should fight against the fact that this policy is being pursued in Vienna, where ticket prices are increased so that seniors are burdened with 9.6 percent. This is the policy of Vienna's Social Democracy, and the Greens are silent about it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser.]] You're excited that I'm saying this. Come on. They Out and Fight You're the same! – That would in itself be the contribution I would expect from you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: You didn't make any adjustments at the Pensionist Price Index!]] Let me now also say a word about group taxation. This is part of the programme of this federal government and also of a future tax reform. You know, you, but also social democracy, have fought group taxation. [[Abg. Brosz: Do you know the word “day order ”? ... now abolished!]] Thank God the no longer in office of the Economic and Financial City Council in Vienna answered a request and pointed out that the settlement of foreign companies was possible thanks to group taxation. [[Abg. Brosz: That's what the Budget Support Act says? ... Rules of Procedure? That's where you can say what you want?]] [[Call to the Greens: We're talking something!]] [[Abg. May. Rossmann: evidence, evidence!]] So let me conclude by saying: I invite Mr Matznetter, Secretary of State, to see this in group taxation, as his colleague Sepp Rieder saw in Vienna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6995	The next speaker was Dr Zinggl, Member of Parliament. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7016	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! After this colorful Potpourri of all the possibilities of Mr Maier, I would like to return to the budget accompanying legislation and focus on it. – The budget-accompanied law, which has to do with art in particular, is the Federal Theatre Organisation Act, and there is an increase in the basic fee of €5 million. Ladies and gentlemen! This increase is justified by rising wage costs, and indeed wage costs have increased since the basic salary has been paid continuously by the biennial jumps, without, so to speak, being reimbursed back. But – and this is really overlooked – these wage costs are also rising in all other cultural institutions, including in all other theatres, and nothing will be paid for. I only recently spoke to the director of the Volkstheater, and he told me that a major actress who plays at the Volkstheater every evening deserves €500 a month grossly. – And this theatre is not provided at all and not provided for all other institutions. I think that in budgetaryly difficult times – and the cultural budget is clearly a difficult one at the moment; that is, we have very little money for the culture – in the sense of social compensation and in the sense of distribution justice, the weaker should first be provided, and then only those who already have something. – They don’t have enough, that’s right, but they have better safeguards by disseminating and by the ability to do justice than those who can’t earn anything for it. We have the same thing now with the other budget accompanying law, with that to the federal museums. The Federal Museums, Ladies and gentlemen, are a barrel without Soil, we know that since the Federal Museums have existed. Not least because of this, there is also the basic fee, not least because of that they have been distributed: so that not year after year of increasing needs can be registered. – And that’s what happened since the distribution: We have the same pity every year and we also have special budgets every year in addition to the basic fee, which should actually be included in the basic fee. We just need to look at one aspect: In connection with security, an additional amount of €5 million is spent each year, including in the next two years. – And I wonder if the Federal Museum Act does not mean that the security costs would have to be covered by the basic fee anyway. In fact, these special payments, which are made more or less consistently, could be included in the basic fee, and if you look at the budget, it has significantly increased for the federal museums. I think that at the Federal Museums, something else would be necessary, namely a reorientation of the collections and also of the exhibition concepts – because the federal government would be able to save quite differently! This is a uniquely necessary regulatory edition, but after that these ever-increasing demands of the museum directors would no longer be relevant and staggering. And I also wonder about this law: What about the smaller ones, for example, with those in the federal states?, they also need more, and he will not pay for them! – The representative “large tankers” are constantly being budgeted and financed, and the “moving boats” can look where they stay. In addition – only as a marginal remark to the Bundesmuseen Act –: In fact, the Court of Auditors would have recommended that there should be something like a four-eye principle between the managing director/director and artistic director. This was not repaired on this occasion, so we have conditions similar to those before. I already have to admit that the framework target agreement is a step in the right direction, but we do not know exactly what this law is to do, what a framework target agreement in relation to museums should be at all, and we do not know, above all, what happens if museum directors do not comply with this framework target agreement. That's missing in this law now. And even if this were to be decreed within the framework agreement, it would not be in the legal order. – I think there could be more reformed than that has happened so far: Now these are just something like associations and plasters on wounds that would have to be sewn for a long time. The third change in the law relating to art concerns the Income Tax Act: They know that, according to an ECJ ruling, foreign artists – at least those from EU countries – who work in Austria are allowed to reduce operating expenses as much as domestic ones. The Federal Government is now doing the following, it says: Well, then they'll have to pay more taxes too! – In fact, it is so that they can choose: Either they accept this injustice, continue to pay 20 percent and can't stop anything, or they drop off and then pay 35 percent. In my opinion, this is a cynical regulation. That's where you could say: Well, the foreign artists come to Austria, they should just pay!, but in reality it is so that no Artist/no artist looks at how much percentage of taxes are to be paid, but they want a net gift, and that is always constant. This need, of course, is paid by the institutions, which then need more from the cultural budget, and the state gives the money from one bag to another – if it does it at all. But we see from the cultural budget that the budget has not been increased especially for the institutions that often work with foreign artists. What is left of them except for them to give up on foreign guests? – And that’s the policy that is called cultural exchange in Sunday’s speeches. I think it would be desirable to see more clearly in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7092	The next speaker is Mr Eder. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7114	Mr President. Ladies, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to say a lot about the budget accompanying law, the energy and the CO2 tax, but there is nothing to it: Mr Maier has asked me to make a few comments on his remarks, which have easily irritated me, because I had the impression that it is not quite known to him that we are working together in a coalition, and a number of your previous speakers have already proved this in their speeches. [[Abg. Dr. Ferdinand Maier: You should tell the cap!]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Where's Mr. Cap?]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Does Mr. Cap know that too?]] – But one cannot expect much more from a political group whose motto is “folding hands, holding goschens”, which is unfortunately so. And that is why I believe that it would be wiser if, in a coalition – I say that only once – there were good positions on matters, even critical positions. But this... [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Once someone has a promise... – Please, someone who has never promised! That's not how it is, you can build it up like that. I don't like it! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: At the cap it's... promised!]] I just think, dear Ferry Maier, my constituency colleague, if you're argumenting and making yourself this way, I'm not surprised that in my district the Freedom Party has become the second strongest party and the ÖVP has become the third strongest party. – I am really sorry for Floridsdorf! And I think it would have failed to argue differently! Perhaps then the mandate you lost in the constituency will be restored. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] There it is with the hetz, ladies and gentlemen. There would have been a failure if things were a little more thoughtful! But let us now come to more important things: the budget accompanying law! I can say that budget accompanying laws in particular have always been and are very important in the context of the budget formation of our state. This time too, it is a very important section of our debate in the context of the entire budget discussion, which will last all week. And here, of course, a very special part is – and this has already been discussed a lot today – the mineral oil tax, which – and I would like to say this again clearly – is not included in the budget, but – and that has already been done by the Minister of Finance and Vice-Presidents – is intended for specific purposes, such as investment in the ASFINAG, investment in transport in the countries or funds to support the Climate Fund. But since all of this – and we all know it very well – is far from enough to achieve the climate change target – that is, the 13 percent – we are still very far away, there are also a number of other measures that are necessary to be taken here quickly. I think it is true, ladies and gentlemen, that every measure must be taken to achieve this objective. And there are, for example – and I would like to say this clearly – also discussions at government level, because we simply have some 900 000 individual oil-fire heaters in Austria as a reality, as a fact, that have installed to a considerable extent – to over 45 percent – burners that are older than 15 or 20 years old. And if you're reasonable here – yes, even biomass. [[Abg. Grill: biomass!]] I told you to take all the measures. Only: If these households are not willing to convert their plants, their boilers, which they have installed to biomass, at least one should make another offer that one can also offer sulphur-free oven oil and tax sulphur-containing oven oil a little higher. If you do this and create the incentive, then we even have an additional income. Consumers can at any time also buy the sulphur-free heating oil, at the same prices as now, only: If you buy imported sulphur oil, you pay more for it. If you turned it around and done it skillfully, the whole thing would bring a savings of about a million tons of CO2. This is much more than light bulbs mentioned here today. We should do everything we can, but we should also make this savings of one million tons of CO2 – I would ask that – together. There, the bio-heating plants on the market, or something else, do not fall away at all, but all together. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7221	The next speaker was Mr Dolinschek. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7243	Mr President. Dear women Federal ministers! Today the whole women's rogue is on the ministerial bench. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] – Is nothing negative, I see that positive, not a question. And I also notice that none of the ladies were in the previous government. [[Abg. May. Worm: You do!]] They so to speak, sit at the covered table we prepared from 2000 to 2006. [[Abg. Broukal: You'll do better!]] – Yes, Mr President, you laugh, but the figures of the high economy, the excellent economic data and economic growth speak for themselves. And the tax revenue is now slumping out; these conditions, these preliminary work has just been carried out in the years 2000 to 2006. We have so to speak sown well. But we also want to have one that this harvest that we have sown is also distributed justly. So, on the one hand – I have already said that – the SPÖ bars are so to speak, sitting at the covered table, the VP bars are walling in the expenditures as well as in the past. I just remember – and that was already in discussion today – the refusal of the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs. The abolition of the limit on child care benefits continues to be walled. Mrs Bundesminister, I do not understand in this context that you are holding fast to this, because it is anti-work and non-profit, non-reality and a positive development in the compatibility of family and work, which actually prevents many people from getting back into the profession. And it would be a signal effect in the direction that well-earned fathers would also spend more time on childcare. It would be a huge improvement. I also remember that the previous government in 2004 – before the year 2000 there was the karenz money – never controlled the children's grant, which existed before 2000, at the time of the SP/VP government, that is, at the time of the great coalition of that time, and that the Federal Government decided not to recover from the decision in 2004 because it was never controlled either. You could do the same now. They would relieve families of this and not insecure them, for in reality, it does not do anything financially. Additional costs can be expected from € 250 to 300 million, but most of them are due to the high red tape. - So much for it. The next thing is, of course, that in the case of child care, unlike the care allowance, which is a family benefit and not an insurance benefit. And for family benefits, this is the same as the care allowance: There is no upper limit and no difference in income, that is the same for all. And one thing I would like to write to you in the master book, Mrs. Federal Minister: Every child should be worth a lot to us! [[Congratulation of the Abg. Sounds.]] [[Abg. Big applause!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Less performance, more burden, this is like a red thread through the entire 2007/2008 budget accompanying law, even through the entire budget. Instead of a tax reform, the medium-sized person is still taxed and not relieved by the population who asked countries and communities to cash out. Best example: the city of Vienna. This has been said today and last time: Parking fee increases by 50 percent, public transport becomes more expensive by 12 percent. Mineral oil tax if it does not directly enter the budget. But the commitment to purpose! Mr Eder, everyone understands that. But there are also calls for countries and communities to carry out these increases, and this must be paid by the commuters and consumers. The increase in mineral oil tax costs 1.5 million commuters, so many we have in Austria, or 600 000, which is at least 60 percent of the commuting population dependent on the car. Rural areas in particular are being mercilessly exploited. The rural population – this is often called for – is talking about mobility. Yes, where is the mobility, ladies and gentlemen, when the oil tax is increased and the tax is also lifted by the VAT tax? That's not how it's done! In any case, one should consider something for these people and, in any case, also set up the transport discount amount instead of the shuttle fee – the conversion to a kilometer-dependent donor aid with negative tax. We have a request in this respect. This will be brought into the course of this debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7321	The next speaker is Mrs Lentsch. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7342	Mr President. Estimated ladies on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The budgets for 2007 and 2008 actually come with relatively little budget accompanying legislation, and the First of all, it is a very good thing. Budgetary policy must work in the long term, and, as our Minister of Finance says so beautifully, it must be “one-stop” because citizens and entrepreneurs must be able to rely on the fact that there are no new rules every year. The budget rate of recent years has been a very solid one, so not much need to be changed. Let me, however, deal with a few points. As a Burgenlander, I am particularly pleased that the pendler fee will be increased by 10 percent. This increase is already taking place by 1. ==References== Many of my compatriots will be happy because unfortunately God still has many Burgenlanders to travel daily from their federal state to their work place. The increase is also so important because the oil tax increases. But there is also no way by, ladies and gentlemen, because we want to relieve the fuel tourism and, of course, our CO2 balance. With the increase of the penalty, we have at least found a good way to compensate for this. Another point I would like to address is the promotion of studies. The Federal Minister, Mr Hahn, actually acted very, very quickly. While SPÖ-near students have been demonstrating, the Minister of Science has increased and expanded scholarships. In 2007, the funding was increased by €3.9 million compared with 2006, and in 2008 another €2 million was added. There will also be an increase on the level of school, i.e. school, home and travel aid: a total of 12 million more than 2006 by 2008. This will not stop the jusos from demonstrating, ladies and gentlemen, but if you look at these figures, you must admit that everyone in Austria – really everyone in Austria! – who is only capable of studying in any form. All in all, the budget accompanying laws underline that we are continuing the path of recent years. It is saved, but not broken, just as it has been permanently accused of us by your side in recent years. There and there, expenditure will be taken back, but we are still not leaving the gas, especially where the future is concerned: Education, research and safety. If we continue to pursue this direction, we will also be able to achieve our budget target, which was raised by our Minister of Finance, a zero deficit, in 2010 and to implement a further tax reform for our employees and for our entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7390	The next speaker is Mr Brosz. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7412	Mr President. Dear ministers! Part of this budget-accompaniment law is to raise pupils' aid. This looks very encouraging at first glance, it is ultimately also because it will bring with it a considerable increase especially in 2008. I have also read more in the explanations of the Budgetary Accompaniment Act and have noted: There, the government template itself relativises the relatively large announced measure, because it literally means that the whole is used to compensate for the development of value in recent years, because the last adjustment took place in 1999 and since then the pupils' aid has remained at the same level. As I said, I should like to appreciate this, and it makes sense for the aid to be increased now. But what has already occurred to me, this is the following: At the same time, in the budget accompanying law, based on the Government Convention, there is the agreement that fees should be increased annually in the coming years – the fees well noticed! The purpose of an authorisation regulation is to adjust the rate of fees per year on the basis of the inflation rate. I thought that if we now raise the fees annually, then the logical consequence would be to raise the aid annually, because this seems to be somewhat uneven, that although we take into account inflation annually and increase the fees, not in the case of aid, where there may be no increase in the next eight years. Where is the Lord “Social Warmness”-Crainer? He's not here right now. If you are talking about social warmth, you should also consider adapting the aid accordingly. In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We want this, of course, for all aid, but only for these two parts is there a connection to the budget accompanying law. I assume that, if you already write in, the fees will be increased annually, you will also have an agreement to do so in the case of aid. We have written: “at least to the extent of the inflation rate”, but of course it can also be more, but this value assurance should at least be contained. On this occasion, I would like to take a brief look at the debate on the question of a common school in Austria, especially in Carinthia and in Klagenfurt and Villach. Sometimes things happen in politics, where you think, as little as you might be afraid, will not be meant, and I have commented quite positively yesterday, because what was initially said in the “Kurier” has been suspected here is a model region, where at least in large parts of Carinthia is tried to introduce a common school – whether through school attempt; so it was not so clear. In view of the long-standing refusal of the ÖVP to discuss it meaningfully, I consider the step of creating model regions in the federal format to be a quite common path. I thought, though, that strategicly one can discuss whether it is particularly wise to do so with Mr Haider, if one knows that on the other hand, especially in Styria, even if Mrs Edlinger-Ploder's statements are presented yesterday in the 'ZiB 2', a high-quality debate about a common school is held. She has criticized as an ÖVP representative that this model is bad, because it is not a common school for all students, but besides other school types, an additional school type is added. Since yesterday I gradually fell down the hay, because it became clear, it's not about Carinthia, but it's about Klagenfurt and Villach; that was the first information. I thought that was a small model region, but as a region one could still define it. The next information was, it is not about Klagenfurt and Villach, but about two schools in Klagenfurt and Villach, where there is exactly the problem that it is completely pointless to discuss a common school, because this is to become a new type of school that exists next to AHS and next to primary school. For years, we have discussed this with Mr Niederwieser that this model applied in some German federal states has not led to any improvement in the school system, no, the opposite is the case: The selection has been reinforced, as it were, a school type has been pushed in. In the meantime, the stand, I think, is so that it is no longer about the entire schools, but because of the fact that classes from these schools form a common class – should it be called now, because common school would be wrong if it was not the whole school. So that's going to be pretty slow, cabaretistic. The point is to get back to the seriousness of the matter: You're already playing with the fire, Mrs. Minister, I'd like to tell you. We have defended the idea of a common school for years, and I still stand by it. All experience in the international field shows that common school models, especially as regards the social aspect, can work much better than our school model. However, there are conditions for this, i.e. the individual support is very much written there. If the teachers in the schools do not work with the students who have learning difficulties and which is not balanced in the school, this will work very hard. The main point is social compensation, and it cannot work in this model that you now call common school in Carinthia, because it covers only a part of the students and not all. The core of this consideration is yes, there is a common roof where individual funding is provided. But this common roof does not exist with you. What I have to say is that this was a relatively populist announcement, and the danger is that the model of a common school will be disavowed. And since we already want to be aware of the fact that only the door sign is now being exchanged – with this the woman Gehrer has had good experience, I think the pedagogical academies have got all-round new signs and are now called colleges and are located in your resort – that you do the same with the schools now and just write “common school” on the door sign. This will certainly not be enough to drive forward this important project of school development in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7490	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Brosz has been sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7544	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7566	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear students at the gallery! Dear High House! In principle, I thought that I would come here to correct the partly unqualified statements of Mr. Klubobmanns Westenthaler, who have fallen in favour of Minister Kdolsky. However, I must admit that Mr Maier's statements have already prompted me to ask whether the promise of our Federal Chancellor, namely “Barolo” instead of “Barroso”, is perhaps a little more harmless than what happened within the framework of the so-called breakfast affair, where the then Federal Chancellor has thought of high-ranking people of public life with relevant words. [[Abg. Dolinschek: They were much angry!]] I would like to know whether these two things are really equal. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In fact, I would like to deal with a part of the BZÖ's motion of censure against the Minister, namely the question of the so-called Vigilance Center, because I have rarely heard as many uninformed and false reports in recent times as this question. There is no question that, in times of Internet trade and in times of in-trafficking of partially dangerous, counterfeit drugs, it is urgently necessary that drug safety be checked. And in times of budgetary scarcity, it is also quite clear that one is trying to keep the Ministry's budget as low as possible, but the cost of not turning on consumers as far as possible. And this is exactly what happened here, and not that, as is mentioned in the mistrust request, patients are burdened with additional verification costs. What happened? Unfortunately, the ÖVP faced us very late with a proposal to finance drug safety. The proposal has stated that 3 cents per pack could be stored. And the solution proposal was also presented to us immediately: that when it comes to the prescription fee, which is paid through social security, if the medications are sold “over the counter”, that is, directly to the patient, the patient or perhaps the pharmacies should bear these costs. Since we have incorporated into the Government Agreement that we do not want to extend our self-retain, but, quite the contrary, a covering of the prescription fees to 2% of the net income, it is quite clear to us that we can only say no to this proposal. And on the basis of very tough negotiations, we have succeeded in ensuring that the change of law, as it is now available to you, provides for a decree empowerment of the minister that, within the framework of the complete pharmaceutical package with the pharmaceutical industry, the so-called Vigilance Center – and it is not 1 cent, but can now be up to 2 cents, not 3 cents as before – is borne by the pharmaceutical industry, so that it is not so that it is passed on to patients. Voices You're asking for this, and it's certain it won't happen! A possible change in the law that would empower the minister to stop doing just that, but to get the money from patients would have to be introduced first. And I guarantee you that just as we, the SPÖ, have now, in the law enforcement, taken care to ensure that patients are not burdened, such a change would in any case again be repugnant.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7611	The next item is the speech by Mr Scheibner. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7633	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Over the past few years, discussions on budget accompanying laws have also repeatedly been debated about fundamental reforms and basic measures, which a federal government has defined and created in particular with regard to the budgetary framework. I have repeatedly pointed out that everything is a little different in this government – not quite incomprehensible, because where there are no big goals, no major reforms, no major decisions can be made there either. What we have agreed on, however, are tax increases, tax increases, where we say that this is necessary for budgetary reorganisation, although, as we have heard, the tax source is flowing as never before, and sometime at the end of the 2010 legislative period, there will be a tax relief. This has made sense, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Mr Vice-Chancellor, you were also significantly involved at the time when we had to reorganise the problems that SPÖ Finance Ministers left to us, and indeed – unfortunately – with the help of tax resources and funds provided to us by the people. But we have reorganised the budget and have also said that if this reorganisation succeeds, there is also a reorganisation dividend in the course of a tax relief. And we have also fulfilled this promise: In 2004/2005, the greatest tax relief was granted in the history of the Second Republic. Nevertheless, or perhaps precisely because we have strengthened the purchasing power by doing so, because we have also made sure, through the discharge of the companies, that investment is re-invested, that there is more employment in Austria, there is now also more tax revenue. That is to say, we have handed over a budget or a government budget that does not make it necessary to get back into the taxpayers' pockets now, under the pretext that any climate funds should be backed up and fattened or put in any budget recovery measures. No, there would have been a chance to continue the tax relief step by step. In fact, we know that this is not going from today to tomorrow, to achieve the objective we have set ourselves, namely to reduce the tax and tax rate to 38 percent by 2010, according to the motto: The State should take only as much tax revenue as is really necessary and reasonable, especially for the medium-sized, which is the main promoter of our social system on tax revenue. That is why we would have expected, Minister of Finance, to continue these positive approaches from the last legislative period. Not to raise taxes, not to increase taxes, but to further relieve the taxpayer and the population, we would have wished you and this Federal Government to do so. Unfortunately, one goes back to the old policy of the great coalition: We get the money from the taxpayer, and no one knows what it is used for then, and promises a tax reform at a time far away, where you already know – and every debate contribution by a member of the government group shows it – that this government will not last for a long time, because it believes, in view of these disputes, these disagreements, as you can see here every minute, that no one can hold this coalition for four years. That is, the revenue you get now, the discharge you promise for later, but know that you will not be able to fulfill this promise at all. We want to continue this course of tax relief, as we have done, towards flat tax, fair taxes, harmonization of tax rates, reduction of tax rates, increase of maximum tax rates. This too must be said clearly and clearly, because it is not about the super-rich, but it is also about the middle class. Only if the valorization of this tax rate were achieved would it be about €70 000 a year – currently it is just over 50 000. We are also concerned, above all, with further relief from the medium-sized economy, especially from bureaucracy, from statistics and other things that are no longer necessary. In this sense, we have also prepared a very comprehensive motion for a resolution which includes all of this. Mr Finanzminister, you will know the content, because we have discussed this with you in many rounds of negotiations. At the time, I have found understanding in some areas or in many areas, and we have done so step by step to implement these further redundancies. I do not know why, in this case, you seem to have surrendered to the coalition partner SPÖ – you will not have changed your opinion – and are now re-appointing burdens instead of discharges. In this sense, I am bringing the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Josef Bucher and colleagues... – Yes, this is the problem, Mr Parnigoni, that you do not implement this system, but you are going back to the ideological step into the past, where you say you have to take away the money from people and then redistribute it, and where the state and, above all, the party then decide who gets what money to put people back into dependence. [[Abg. Parnigoni: We will not continue your policy, Mr Scheibner!]] [[OBJECTIVES]] Thank you for the call, Mr Parnigoni! [[Abg. Parnigoni: We do not want the rich to get richer and poorer and poorer!]] There we differ, also in principle political – thank God! – and I am proud of that because I want the people to be able to keep as much of the money they have generated and to decide for themselves what they are spending on. I would like us to strengthen purchasing power, strengthen businesses to create jobs, and increase tax revenue by way of this, just as we did in the last legislative period. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You don't care about the social aspects, as always!]] The social state will only be eligible for funding if enterprises provide jobs, and it will only be eligible for funding if, through increased purchasing power, VAT revenue is increased – and not as you want: Exploiting performance, exploiting money, distributing everything over the state, and then distributing it again through the party. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Less private, more state is announced!]] This system has suffered shipwreck everywhere it has been enforced, also in Austria in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In this sense, Mr Parnigoni, I make the following request – even more convincing than I did five minutes ago: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Parnigoni, agree. Then you would have done something good for our country!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7748	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7943	The next speaker was Mr Eßl. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7964	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! We are now adopting the budget accompanying law. This brings with it changes in some legislative bodies. But a budget-accompanied law is only an accompanying law on a budget – and I should also like to draw attention to the fact that we have a budget for 2007 and 2008, which is characterised by a sustainable way and also builds on a good work in the past. A sound budgetary policy in recent years has now benefited us and has also opened the way for long-term objectives, namely: balanced budget, reduction of debt and investment measures to keep the economy in a state of swing. Another task is, of course, also included, namely to focus on labour market policies despite declining unemployment. I can speak to the Minister for Finance – to you, Mr. Vice-Chancellor Molterer! – Thank you very much for negotiating and presenting this budget in less than a hundred days. Of course, some materials are included in the accompanying law, which are modified. First of all, I should like to refer to the Mineral Oil Tax Act, the adjustment of the tax rates on petrol and gas oil in accordance with the Government Convention and the implementation of the Climate Change Strategy, with 3 cents increase in petrol and 5 cents increase in diesel from 1. ==References== Ladies and gentlemen, I know that's not pleasant. But I think it is portable, and it is also useful because the money is being used wisely: firstly for road construction, second for public transport, and secondly to a very significant extent for the climate fund and hence for environmental protection measures. There have been some discussions and excitement on the part of those who often demand a lot but on the other hand want to prevent many reasonable things again. I say to that: others demand, and we act accordingly! In this context, I should also like to address the price policy of the oil industry and to note the following very critically. When I drove from Tamsweg to Vienna in the early days, I also passed gas stations and saw that the cheapest gas station, a discounter, requires 87.9 cents for the diesel, the regular fuel station 94.5 cents. Finally, the prices are between 1.035 € and 1.085 € in the Lungau. In other words, we have a difference of 20 cents, and so I think it can be achieved if, for reasonable measures, the mineral oil tax is increased by 3 cents or 5 cents. I also call on the oil industry to reduce to the necessary level, so as not to tax others over a fee. Other laws with the budget accompanying law will be amended accordingly. This concerns the Income Tax Act. Pendler fees should be increased by 10 per cent once more and in order to counteract the increased fuel prices and thus the increased loads of the commuters. This is to be done at the same time as the aforementioned one. ==References== I can say that in the past few years, since 1st century, the Pendler PAUSHAL January 2004, already 15 percent and 10 percent have been raised below and a discharge of up to €571 per donor has been created. There would be other things to say, but time is too short. Overall, I can see that the changes in the various legal instruments that we adopt with this budget accompanying law round off the successful and solid double budget 2007 and 2008 and result in a change for the benefit of the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8021	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8043	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! High house! First, just one sentence on the Westenthaler colleague and his definition of leaving age: I think that you should be careful with “retirement” if you are not really ready for election or in matters of concern. – That would be all. [[He also welcomed the Greens and the representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I may now start a little atypical and remind you of the following We all, when we came to Parliament, once praised fidelity to the Republic, its laws and the Constitution. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Professor, stay with your skiers!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... still at the Dringliche today!]] Faithful to laws, however, requires that one reads laws, can read them, and becomes familiar with them. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That Green...!]] Maybe for the audience: A few weeks ago, we were delivered with 4,000 pages – under the ‘budget laws’ – of budget data, about which we should now debate or decide in a few hours. I'm asking you now: Honestly, who has read these 4,000 pages? Who'd find it useful? Who discovered contradictions? – If they are faithful, honest and honest, now all those who say: Yes, I did! Since everyone's sitting down, I'm asking... [[Abg. We do not stand up for you, Mr Scheibner.]] You don't need to get up because of me, but you don't have to lie down either. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Don't pay off!]] – That’s why I wonder: How should such debates take place? My suspicion is already a bit of a fact that budget accompanying laws are often used to cheer up Parliament in the general uproar of the 4,000 pages, which one likes to overlook. This has tradition, and I wonder why changes to the university law must necessarily take place in the accompanying laws without seeing the light of the committee's agenda. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We are now also talking about the Federal Health Agency or the Food Safety Agency and its funding. This will probably not, as far as I see it, be seen by the Committee on Health, but will now be voted on, and then you will see what is going on. So there are certain concerns in Parliament which simply withdraw attention and treatment. It's a little hush-fush with the hope that all of this goes through smoothly. If you say it is because it has to do with the budget, I ask you: Why, then, do we need so many committees in Parliament at all? – It has everything to do with the budget! Write to your homepage “www.administrative cost simplification or -reduction.at”: a budget committee; one saves staff, one saves itself bureaucracy, and we only talk about the money. – It can't be! To the universities: The universities will now be again obliged to report to the financial sector, and the financial sector will offer the universities planning and controlling instruments according to which they will act. I remember Bruno Rossmann, “www.administrative cost reduction.at”, because the universities already have something like that! Have you forgotten that universities should be evaluated – but also evaluated about the follow-up costs of your desired and performed dispensation, evaluates the additional costs of the ransom solution of medicine, so to speak, from their home universities? The universities must draw up performance plans. They must draw up development plans and negotiate them with the department. They are reporting to Minister Hahn, Minister of Science. They shall submit their budgets to university councils for approval. Why don't you send an official from the Ministry of Finance here? – It might be better than any of those who sit in the University Council. The universities are now doing everything twice: They negotiate performance contracts, create a knowledge balance. If you call the ministry and ask: Please, Mr Ministerial Officer, tell me what belongs to the knowledge balance?, the gentlemen of the universities will receive the answer: You need to know! Shouldn't you put on the lever and put the universities on a tiresome, bureaucratic new administrative instrument, causing additional costs for something that can also be cheaper? – I would like to make this very clear. It's all doubled – all doubled! – what universities need to do about the budgets and their plans. If that makes sense, I don't understand the world anymore. I now come to speak briefly on Agency financing. It is clear from EU law that pharmacovigilance is a sovereign task, so to speak, of the national state. Now I can say: Okay, we have tight budgets – that's true for all states – we're out! In the ministry, I give up resources, make budget and planning cosmetics: Everything belongs to an agency. If one calls in the ministry, it says: It will continue immediately, and then the Agency will report. So ask You do not ask the ministry, but the doctors and pharmacists and the agencies. I do not think that this is a happy solution, especially if those concerned still need to finance this agency. It already finances patients through their hospital stay contribution with 10 € medical treatment damage that they grow up in hospitals. This is about the same thing: Vice chancellor Molterer travels home by train to Upper Austria, pays for the ticket 30 €, and then it says: 10 € supplement. He says: I'm not driving business class! As a result, it says: This is the risk contribution, perhaps the train driver is sleeping, perhaps a traffic light is wrong or a soft one is wrong! That's not how it's done! I'm not the defender of the pharmaceutical industry, but the pharmaceutical industry... [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: Oh, what do you have for a task?]] What do I have for a task? – To defend the public interests in such a way that they are perceived. That means that the state also has to finance some things, and it can't be that way – please, Mr Vice-Chancellor, otherwise you'll have our defence budget financed by the arms industry! It's about the same thing. And this example is not a bad one, but a dangerous one that you give. It doesn't even take hundreds of researched molecules, of which there's not even a PhD in the clinical trial. The pharmaceutical industry pays the tenfold fee for the authorisation of a drug. Knowing how a drug proves itself on the market and the risk of a drug being shown later would be the task of the resort, and this should also be equipped with the necessary resources. One can discuss this; but what one cannot discuss is that such a thing is not discussed with the opposition, that such a thing is not discussed with the Health Committee, but is simply negotiated and finished through the Budget Committee. Such endings do not promote democracy, not parliamentarianism, nor transparency and broad participation of all parties involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8169	The next speaker is Mr Broukal. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8192	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies ministers on the government bank! – Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Kdolsky, who goes into politics, must say goodbye to many, including, for example, the normal laws of bourgeois courtesy. It is certainly a very difficult moment when, like you, you look back on a very successful professional life and then you look back at someone who has his profession – what's so beautiful in the newspapers? – at the age of 23 years, a politician’s mobile phone and tash carrier has started and, for example, has remained at this professional qualification, must let it rot. On the other hand, Mrs. Minister, it is of course so that in your new function you also have opportunities that you did not have before. The purchase price for having to deal with disrespectlessness is therefore that one can also develop a greater effectiveness. It may always be that the part of effectiveness seems more important and more important to you than the anger about disrespect! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: Nicely said!]] Kurt Grünewald, when I think about how many in vain attempts we have been making for weeks to agree on an appointment of the Scientific Committee, I must say that it is not enough to say here: “I want committees!” “Sir, give me dates!” I would almost have to say to Schiller. Finally, yes, please! [[Abg. Sburny:... suggested!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] Mrs. Sburny, do you know the mail? [[Abg. Sburny: Yes, of course!]] You know his mail traffic – well, I'm glad it's okay. But then you'll see how you can't succeed! [[Abg. Sburny: We inform each other, unlike SPÖ!]] Yeah, okay, good. At least it's not up to me, you can make appointments with me every day. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But then tell me who's blocking, please!]] Okay, but at least he's one of those, so he doesn't have to go down and say, There are no dates! I'd like more dates, too. It's not me. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Against the Constitution, I said!]] Today we have a very small change to the university law: The universities should now deliver to the Ministry of Finance figures which they had previously delivered to them once a year via the Ministry of Science every three months. These are 20 figures, which in the universities, if they have a bookkeeping that is even somewhat deserved by the name and a somewhat deserved accounting system – what they do have – automatically so to speak. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: They got them!]] What is new is that they are not even to be reported every year, but every four months. There you could say, if you have suspected – and such a suspicion is against a financial administration, hold on to graces, always appropriate – now: There's a line being pulled tight! In order to address this suspicion, Mr Brinek and I have prepared a motion for a resolution, which will certainly also find the agreement of Mr Green Forest and in which we expressly state that the National Council does not wish for control to be carried out. The universities should have the right, as now, to receive a 12th of their budget each month. The Ministry of Finance should not have the opportunity to say: Now we have come to you through the controlling, you have money on the edge, consume it once! – That would be against the spirit of autonomy and therefore does not take place. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have made up with the competent officer in the Ministry of Finance that these figures will also be available to us. We will then be able to convince ourselves, if, for the first time, these figures are exchanged between universities and the ministry, whether this is reasonable or unreasonable, whether this will reveal all the business secrets of the universities or whether it is simply the attempt of the state administration to check this more precisely. For this, she has a motive that I too must acknowledge, namely the motive for the funding of the universities of Maastricht to be relevant. It is not unimportant whether the universities have money, how much money they have, how they have booked it, whether they have invested it. At the end of the year, when it comes to the Maastricht criteria, we can cut a hack into the cross. This motion for a resolution will be presented in detail later on by Mr Schittenhelm. – Thank you for your attention. – Again everything good! [[In the direction of Federal Minister Dr. Kdolsky:]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8348	Mr Grünewald referred to an actual correction. You are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure: the facts to be corrected are the right thing to do, and that in 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8373	Mr President. Mr Broukal claimed that I would have said that there would be no dates for the Scientific Committee. The fact is, I said: I criticise the fact that these issues do not come to the Scientific and Health Committee. The date was not the date!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8403	The next speaker is Mr Pirklhuber. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8424	Mr President. Ladies on the government bank! High house! First of all, I would like to confirm what my fellow Members have already meant, namely that this mistrust against you, Mrs Federal Minister Kdolsky, is more than unnecessary. I believe that this is actually a misuse of an important parliamentary instrument which is not at all appropriate in this form. If you have any criticism, express it specifically! [[towards BZÖ]] We'll do it. Mrs. Minister is in office for a hundred days, I do not want to scatter any "overlaid" roses, but I think we have a basis for discussion. We should use these, exchange our views on specific concerns and put the criticism where it is really necessary and necessary. Perhaps one of the budget accompanying laws, which could eventually be something like the rails of the overall budget, namely the cornerstones, which could also make new perspectives visible. Could I say – that's exactly our problem: Unfortunately, we do not see these new tracks. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] We cannot see them to this extent, as they are necessary, namely, that some necessary changes are necessary, especially in the area of education and training. Climate protection, schools and universities, as well as infrastructure, care or childcare measures. That would have been to be expected. But there is no indication of where this climate fund is supposed to be, not a clear attempt to implement the strategy for a climate action. Instead of buying emission certificates, instead – yes, that also° – actually a bad situation in the area of the donor scheme. I should like to say a word on this, Mr Bucher. Especially when looking at rural areas, it should be borne in mind that public transport is one of the most important challenges for many, many people, not only for students and students who come to schools every day. This would be the task of strengthening public transport in rural areas as well, because the increase in the rate of penalty only leads to the fact that those people who do not pay a wage tax have no advantage from this increase either. And that's just a social flaw that you have to perceive, and we can't be positive about that. However, I would now like to address a number of points in my statement, Mrs Federal Minister, who is responsible for you, namely amendments to the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act. This is a matter of some adaptations, and these are rules for Community installations in water supply. We can also see this positively when it comes to laying down minimum quality standards and investigation requirements. Yes, but, Mrs Federal Minister, there are exceptions here again, namely exceptions in the field of family associations. That's what I'm telling you: It is equally important to have a quality examination in the family association, because it is time and again that people drink water that is contaminated, and people often don't know what's going on for years until they get there: Oh, our well is not actually suitable for use in terms of water quality. Therefore, it would be more useful not to make an exception, but to provide for a different research rhythm, but to ensure that these users of water from their own facilities in the family association can also prove a quality assurance in their own interest and to protect their health. That's what we'd have expected. One point, Mrs Federal Minister, has really remained completely in the fog and in the dark, namely the point of ensuring the public revenue for control activities in the field of slaughter and meat research. Mrs. Federal Minister! The explanations in the text and also the response to our requests in the ministry – we have not received a reply to this day – are very, very strange for us, because in the field of this control activity, fees are to be lifted in the future. Yes, fees! At the same time, the explanations describe that 330 000 farms will be included in the future. Reference is made to the control requirement in accordance with the relevant EU legislation. They speak of 190 000 farms involved here in the future, and our question is quite specific: Which farms are to be subject to this control, and what control activities are these? Unfortunately, we have not received any answers so far, and therefore we can certainly not support this point either. They also have a regulatory authority for the assessment of holdings by individual risk groups, and there is no indication of the risk groups in the legislation. are and according to which criteria are assessed. And: What, then, does the procedure look like in practice? In conclusion, Mrs Federal Minister, I would like to give you some thought on one point, namely in the field of non-genotechnic food. I would have expected that in the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act there would also be a clear positioning for labelling of non-genotechnic foods, for which the offensive of non-genotechnic food is contained, that this is also in the law that this also comes and is supported by your department. In this context, I would like to inform you about recent studies in France which show that the construction of MON 863, a genetically modified maize, has shown massive effects on rats in a feeding attempt. And I am earnestly asking you, here in one of the next essential internal decision-making discourses in your ministry, to ban imports of this construction, because that is a requirement of time and is absolutely on the agenda. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8518	Next item is the report by Mr Peter Haubner. You've done 4 minutes of speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8542	Madam President. Dear ministers! High house! Negotiations on the 2007 and 2008 budget have quickly and consistently brought the new government to the stage, as the budget is the basis for the policy being made in a country. Here we can build on the successes of the last seven years, and if we look at this, we can see that we have the highest employment rates in the EU, that we have one of the lowest unemployment rates in international comparison and that we have one of the best health systems in the world and that we are one of the safest countries in the world and that we have an economic growth of around 3 percent. We have a budget situation that is very optimistic and that we have developed together with the Austrians. Our main objective is to strengthen the economic location, and the second, equally important objective is full employment. And it is important to make every common effort, and here we cannot spend more than we take, and therefore the priority objective must also be a balanced budget over the economic cycle. Careful budgeting, proper investment, and investment will be mainly in the areas of the future: Education, research and infrastructure and also in the sports sector. As a sports speaker, I am of course particularly pleased that sport is also experiencing a further increase in financial support, and so we will also decide in the budget accompanying law a chapter that is something like a small Austrian success story that concerns our federal sports and leisure centers. In 1999, these federal sports centres were distributed, and the society in question has been working extremely successfully since then under the prudent leadership of Michael Sulzbacher. The Federal Sports Centres in Blattgasse, on Lake Faak, in Maria Alm, Obertraun, on Schloss Schielleiten and in the south city have had almost 200 000 nights in 2005 and it is particularly pleasing that this offer should be 50 percent of young people are taken into account. And now, with this new budget accompanying law, the ÖSV sports centre Kitzsteinhorn is returning to Bundessportzentrum AG, and it is particularly gratifying that this will also increase the financial coverage of the federal sports facilities by €80 000 this year and € 170 000 next year. The Federal Sports Institutions are an essential part of the successful sports policy of recent years. With the increase in the special federal sport promotion, we have also set a very clear sign here of more exercise and more health in Austria, because where there is more movement, more health and where more health is, of course, this also contributes positively to the budget. Austria is an absolute sport country, and this is also impressive in the fact that it spends more than €100 million on sports in 2007. The increase in top sports promotion by € 2 million, the further donation for the 2007 and 2008 European Football Championships with € 48 million and, for me as a Salzburger of course, the special donation for the 2014 Winter Olympics application amounting to € 1.6 million. If you can believe all the studies – and I am convinced that the tenor is correct – then you can say that these sports major events are also an important economic factor. In particular, these studies show that they provide the right impetus for both economic growth and the labour market. In this respect, I am not only looking forward to the 2008 European Football Championship, but I think that with these economic policies we are also setting the right impetus for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8590	Thank you, honourable Member. Next item is the report by Mr Lutz Weinzinger. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8618	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Budgetary accompanying laws, Mr. Dr. Grünewald – unfortunately he is not here, but you will do it to him –, of course, I have not read the budget accompanying laws in their entirety, of course. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Who shall tell him?]] In your contribution, you have presupposed something that I too wanted to address, namely that legal provisions are being suspended in order to avoid normal law enforcement, and that is not too narrow. Now you can stand where you sit, namely, on the one hand, as a member of the government or as a member of those parties that form the government, of course, you are positive about this. And they are praised for the green clover. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] But on the other hand, on the other hand, the opposition rejects everything, because it can't be good what can't be good. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: That's what you're gonna do to us!]] We all know that there is something good inside, but there are also things inside that hurt quite well, I am thinking here of the mineral oil tax, the mineral oil tax tax, of which we have already heard enough today, and of course there are also things inside that need to be, and those that also hurt those who write it, because evil things are not done for the sake of evil, but because it is necessary, but some things actually hurt. Increase the mineral oil tax to 3 cents or 5 cents, it hurts, because we have to be clear about one thing: Who needs mineral oil, who needs petrol and diesel to a large extent? – The donor needs it, and x-times have already been mentioned here today that unfortunately it is not possible to get into work with public transport. And if you drive into work and you can't use public transport, you need your car, and if you buy fuel for your car, you pay the fuel plus the VAT on it, and the VAT will be lifted after all the taxes on fuel. It is only finally determined, i.e. 20 percent on it! A donor, a worker who travels from the Mühlviertel to Voest, 30, 40 or 50 kilometers a day, cannot deduct VAT as an advance tax, so he pays even more. And if you are now making a shuttle fee available and also increasing it, I have to tell you – and this has been predicted x-time to you today – that this is by far not enough, far from it. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a malice to take in money, and then you say: We use this for our climate protection precautions of a wide variety! – I don’t take this from you, and you know very well that no one is losing you, but we’ll see what comes out. Some amendments to legislation that have been implemented here are adjustments according to the consumer price index. Well, I think it is right that everything that is defined in figures should be adjusted to the consumer price index, that this should be valorised accordingly, but that should not only apply to tax laws, that should not only apply to taxes and taxes, but that should also apply on the other hand to what we provide to the citizen, to the needy citizen or to the one to whom it belongs. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] After all, we started our legislative period by trying – at the time still in the coalition-free area – to carry out some sort of valorization that would bring in some socially acceptable law. Do you remember the matter with increasing pensions? 1.6% then came out. According to the consumer price index for pensioners, it should have been 1.9 percent, but that did not happen. Remember, further, that we have applied for, have pleaded, have predicted how many losses the people have suffered? [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Temptation?- Oh, my God!]] Nothing with it! We asked: Let's valorize the care money! - We didn't valorize it. The care allowance, which was clearly and clearly determined in this way: How much did it cost to care at the time it was introduced, and how much does it cost today?, that was not valorized accordingly, but after years only a small part was raised, but for a long time not even the loss of money. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are valorizing on the one hand, on the other hand, we must also evaluate benefits and social benefits. Something that does not fit directly – but in the course of this debate today, some things have already been brought that did not fit – is the motion for a resolution on the re-examination of state accounts that we have tabled. Ladies and gentlemen! Our postal savings bank came to BAWAG, and the postal savings bank used to carry out all or almost all of the federal monetary operations that the government carried out. Now the Postsparkasse with the BAWAG belongs to a fund that is funnyly called Cerberus because of very unfortunate and worrying circumstances. On Sunday I had the pleasure of standing in front of the Michaelertor and looking at these wonderful sculptures. One of them shows how Hercules extracts and forces the cerberus from the underworld. This was done 200 years ago; perhaps today we could do something in this direction, and at least our state transactions, which the state's monetary operations do not deal with via Cerberus. Please have a positive assessment of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8714	The next item is the speech by Mr Ddr. Decliner. You've done 4 minutes of speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8750	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I have waited in vain for Mr Weinzinger to make his promise true and, for example, to talk about increasing student aid, because he meant maybe one should turn it around once. Mr President, you have still focused on the pity, and I am glad that I was left to talk about the student aid. But first of all I would like to say a sentence on the comments of Mr Brosz, who referred to the school models, to the models of school tests that he is disappointed about what is happening in this area. I believe that we are so clear on the content of what is an overall school. An overall school is a common school type for children from 6 to 14 or 15 years of age. The experiments that are now being started are also based on the Coalition Agreement, in which it says that we want to try out new models in the field of internal differentiation, because there is still little experience with this, be it now in the primary school with alternatives to the performance groups that have not proved themselves very well, or just in the AHS sub-level. That means, these are models that make sense, but it is, of course, exaggerated to say that we are now entering the entire school. I believe that we must stay on the ground of reality, and I am right in giving you, honourable Members. Sensational in relation to what has been done by previous federal governments is the increase in student aid. They have been raised for seven years, not since 1999, and if today the Members of FPÖ and BZÖ have gone to the speaker's desk and said what they should and could do and so on, I ask you, Mrs Haubner, for example: Why have you never been committed to increasing student support if the family has been such an important concern for you? Five years of FPÖ government participation, two years of BZÖ government participation, no increase in student aid, zero increases in student aid. Need now So they're not going out to teach us what we should have done. Would you have done this yourself in your time in the government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There are some 3,000 families that will receive this increase in student allowances, and that is 15 percent according to all calculations. This is the exact balance of what has occurred in inflation since then. There will be all Aspects increased, the basis of calculation: the reasonable maintenance, the amount of the allowance and the aid as such. It is therefore a continuous increase, so that in individual cases, according to our experience, even more can come out. And I think that this is also a benchmark for the Studienförderungsgesetz, whose decision-making is about to take, that we have therefore also done so very clearly, as with the students. In the amendment tabled by Auer/Krainer, this law is also mentioned. This is a clear administrative simplification and relief for the children of separated families who have been forced to request from the court every three years so that the actual maintenance performance is the same as it is. In about 2,000 cases, this had to be done at regular intervals, and in about 15 to 20 cases, a change of a few hundred euros has actually come true. When you calculate this, it becomes clear that the administrative burden in this context is the one hundred times the amount of what the state has saved itself here, apart from the fact that it was, in part, very psychologically difficult to conjure up this to the children. That too is now being changed. So an all-out law, this novel to the School Aid Act. I would also like to thank the Federal Government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Schmied, who has prepared this so well.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8808	The next item is the speech by Mr Bucher. 3 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8829	Madam President. Representatives of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to add a motion for a resolution to our proposal to introduce a donor aid briefly to the motion for a resolution in its broad outlines – it has already been explained, and I believe that I do not need much more to say on the content. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We are convinced that this motion for a resolution would lead to the payment of the additional burden on the taxpayers, who are evident in view of the increase in fuel, thereby allowing for an effective fight against the erodement of rural areas.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8877	Mr Bucher's request is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8996	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Sonnberger. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9019	Madam President. Estimated ladies on the government bank! High house! I may begin with a quote from August of plates: “Bothful vessels give more sound than filled ones. A brother-in-law is usually a hollow head.” In the sense of Arik Brauers, he applies to those who feel affected or should feel affected. A sentence directly to the colleague Westenthaler: Humanity is never a human being sacrificed a purpose, Albert Schweitzer once said. Her speech, Mr Westenthaler, Mrs Kdolsky, was disrespectful. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But now to the budget itself. – The Phoenicians invented the money, but why so little?, Nestroy once said. It is similar to the Minister for Finance: He has many, many wishes, but you have to see that the budget is balanced. We have achieved again – our Minister of Finance has really negotiated a good budget here – that there are primary surpluses. What does that mean? – The balance between revenue and expenditure, respectively: If the revenue is greater, then there is a primary surplus. But here – and this has to be said – the debts of the past, the old debt, are deducted. So there is a responsible budget, because at a time when there is a good economy, it is ultimately taken care to save already for times when the economy is not running so well. A short description of study contributions and the promotion of studies. The study contributions account for about 6 percent of the total cost and currently amount to around € 130 million, with universities directly benefiting from these study contributions. The study contribution per month is approximately €60. A Kindergartenplatz in Vienna, for example, costs 308 €; this only costs as a comparison. And if you know that the total duration of studies has been reduced on average and the number of students has not decreased, then you can also justify this introduction of the study contributions, especially in the respect that scholarships have also been significantly improved. Between 2000 and 2006, the number of students was increased from 34 000 to 48 000. Furthermore, the amount made available there was increased from 114 million to 180 million € between 2000 and 2006. Ab In the autumn of 2007, there will be an increase of 12 per cent, with around €308 in average study aid; earlier this amounted to €275. The highest possible student funding will be € 679 instead of €606. Each third university student or every fifth student at a university receives a study grant. From autumn 2008, the aim will also be to extend the circle of stakeholders. I am particularly concerned to think about the families where two children study – 11.7 percent of the families – and where three and more children study – that is 0.5 percent of the families. Here again, we could consider an increase in the amount of redundancies that has already been made. One last thought: I would like to see an increase in benefits grants, which currently account for 3% of total funding. This would also mean a reference circle expansion, because at present many who actually have the corresponding success, achieve the corresponding values, fall through the rust. It would have been a good thing, one would also raise the service scholarships. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9092	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kuzdas. Speech time: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9114	Madam President. Ladies on the government bank! Let me give you a sentence on the past, because Mr Scheibner – he is not here now – has praised the BZÖ's policy in this way: In 2000, the budget was reorganised on the part of the budget – up to “Knittelfeld” 58 tax and fees increases! And the budget deficit: In 1999 € 133 billion – in 2006 € 159 billion! That's enough for the past. Ladies and gentlemen! The double budget 2007/2008 is a balanced, anticyclic budget with sustainability – according to the experts in budget hearing. A new path has been taken with this budget. Some may see this differently – that is also quite legitimate. In any case, it is certain that investment will be re-invested in the future and that consolidation will not be disregarded. There is again more money for infrastructure, for education, science and research, for climate protection, to address only a few areas. Over long distances, this budget also shows a social-democratic manuscript, and we are very proud of it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, a few remarks on the much quoted increase in mineral oil tax, which is intended to finance the infrastructure offensive, but also for the climate protection fund. – Steps in the right direction, a strong ecological approach and a control measure, because it means: away from the car, to train and bus. That is, away from the road, more on the track. This also means that we need more measures to promote public transport. And here we must take the federal states into the duty in the way that they actually use the dedicated resources. Of course, this medal has a side, but you also have to stand. How else would we have financed the infrastructure offensive and the climate fund? The side is: Fuel becomes more expensive, and this not only affects tank tourism, but also those Austrians who need the car daily for the journey to the training site or to work. This is true of those who need to use the car, because there is no public means of transport available. It hurts me very much personally that it is. The first discharge steps were raised by 10 per cent and the shuttle surcharge with today's amendment request was decided. At the same time, one has to say: Local transport is to be attracted. – Mrs. Moser is not here now. I can promise her she has an ally in me. Let us start by making sure that the countries actually use the allocated funds for public transport! The double budget was created on the basis of the economic data of December 2006. Meanwhile, the growth forecasts of many institutes and economic researchers have been revised upwards. This means that revenue is higher and expenditure is lower due, for example, to reduced unemployment. Experts estimate a margin of between €500 and €800 million. In the budget hearing, Professor Walther said that these figures should not immediately generate new desires, because it is precisely in times of good economic activity that the consolidation rate should not be ignored. There's no doubt. And a consolidated budget is not only a merit of the Minister of Finance, but a merit of the entire federal government. The question is at what time and in what form this money can and will flow back to the Austrian economy by means of tax relief. We must take account of the economic situation and develop the necessary scope. And we also need to strengthen domestic demand – and there the experts agree – because economic growth is currently living primarily from export. More domestic demand means higher sales. Higher sales mean more jobs. And more jobs mean less expenditure on unemployment. That increases the margin in the budget, and that's good. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Creativity and attention are needed when it comes to supporting the economy, exploiting the good economy and providing for worse economic times. I mean, if people in our country are fine and able to afford something, then the economy is going well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9175	The next item is Mrs Mikesch's speech. – You've done 4 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9196	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Within the framework of the budget accompanying laws, an amendment to the Federal Law on the Reorganisation of the Federal Sports Institutions is also being made. As a result of the acquisition of the Bundessportheim Kitzsteinhorn, the grant to the Bundessportsanstaltungen GesmbH will be increased to compensate for reduced tariffs. I therefore use the opportunity today to highlight the importance of federal sports facilities. These are primarily an excellent offer for associations, clubs and schools. But other sports enthusiasts also have the opportunity to use the federal sports and leisure centers. If you look at the high utilization of the federal sports facilities, it must be noted that there is a very valuable contribution to the promotion of the top sport, but of course also for the width sport. The full days rose to 244.2 days. The proportion of eligible athletes – such as the Olympic or National Framework members or the selection teams of the umbrella organisations – is 77.2 percent among the total users. It is particularly gratifying that the federal sports facilities are almost half available to the young athletes and thus to the great extent of youth sports promotion. In addition to the offer for schools and school events, the federal sports facilities are also available for senior sports. In our society, we are fighting the ever more serious consequences of the lack of movement. It's our job to look for counter-conceptions. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Sports and motivation for more movement are sometimes the best answers to all the problems caused by poverty of movement. I remember that 10 percent of Austrian children in school age are too thick and 5 percent are even obese. Reawakening the joy of regular movement is of vital importance here. When children and adolescents regularly engage in sports, this also has a preventive effect in relation to long-term damage such as diabetes or cardiovascular disease. However, I am also thinking of the enormous potential for saving in the health sector, which could be increased in general by increasing Mr and Mrs Österreicher's sporting activities. The federal sports and leisure centres are not underestimated allies here. They support our top athletes in the preparation, and the successes of our top athletes are a great motivation factor for people and thus for broadband. Finally, I would like to point out that every euro invested in sports saves 3 € in the health sector. In this sense, our goal must be to continue the successful path of recent years and to actively support sport in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9242	Mrs Hagenhofer is speaking next time. It has also taken 4 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9263	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear listeners at the gallery! We are debating today a budget accompanying law which, from my point of view, is very pleasant and very positive from the previous six budget accompanying laws. Why do I say that? I am saying so because this budget-accompanied law is almost exclusively innovating laws that have a budget relevance and that do not involve any system changes without an assessment period; in the past, the opposite was the case. That is why I am particularly pleased when I find a change in the budget accompanying law when the Labour Market Policy Finance Act is set up in such a way that the budget for active labour market policy, i.e. for skills of people who do not have work, or for people who want to enter the labour market again, is rewritten at the same level for 2007 and 2008 as it was in 2006, namely at € 806 million, and that in the case of declining unemployment. This Labour Market Policy Finance Act guarantees that we can train professionals we urgently need. I would just like to give you one example: In the Braunau region, we have this possibility for 89 people who have been interested in it – unemployed people – to make caregivers, caregivers and diploma training. We'll do that with 2. Start May, and the next group starts in September. This is certainly an approach that benefits people, something that people are also pleased about because they can actually receive quality training for the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We also have the opportunity to train those young people who do not receive an apprenticeship from the companies through this training security law, i.e. the guarantee of training of apprentices to young professionals. In other words, for young people there is a perspective, a perspek- tive towards training and not, as we have had in recent years, a perspective towards unemployment. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) To be able to talk about it alone is gratifying, because this is about positive investments in the future – for our people, for our country, and in the end it is also in the sense of our entire tax revenue. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9311	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. The next item is Mrs Riener's speech. She too wants to speak for 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9336	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! It often takes shrill tones in our fast-moving and charmingly flooded time to find hearings, but, Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler - and I ask the colleague Haubner - this personally hurting style has not lost anything in the hardest debate in politics! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I'll have it used in this statement. I would also have liked to say a few things in this context, but this is not the style of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But now to the budget accompanying law. This Budgetary Accompanying Act also includes an amendment to the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act, which provides that infant formulae may not be placed on the market prior to notification to the Ministry of Health – an essential point from an EU directive of last year implemented with this novelle. It is further clarified that the placing on the market of water also includes the use of water from a private community plant, provided that this is not only carried out in the family context. The next item in this amendment concerns controls and risk management in the field of food. The EU Regulation, which was implemented by the 2005 Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act, allows Member States to collect fees for these routine investigations. This possibility will now be used from January 2009. In the case of primary products, the tests are excluded, as they are already subject to charges. In order to ensure the safety of food, the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act has made it mandatory to establish risk management within the framework of the multi-annual integrated control plan. The AGES is responsible for this with a base budget of €55 million, which of course also needs to be made available the appropriate financial resources. Part of it is borne by the Federal Government, part of it is carried by the countries over the personnel costs of the control bodies, and in the future part will be borne by the companies themselves as a cost contribution. The classification of the companies concerned into risk groups not only assesses the risk associated with the operation according to the size, turnover and customer frequency of the company, but also allows the risk to be reduced by careful work. This means a bonus and a lower risk group. for smaller holdings up to the exemption from costs. – More precisely, a regulation of the Ministry of Health will be regulated. The period of time until the entry into force of this provision of about one and a half years will allow us not only to set up a modern computer management system but also to arrange for closer cooperation with the national research institutes. In this respect, the law states that the costs of the investigation provided for in this Act should be replaced. The time-limit also allows for efficient administration – that is: Who most efficiently collects these fees? – as well as new experiences from practice. The courageous and ambitious objective of our ÖVP Minister of Finance and Vice Chancellor Wilhelm Molterer is also recognizable in this area of the budget accompanying law, to ensure the food and thus the quality of life and to lead Austria into a good future.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9406	Next, Mr Wimmer. He's also done four minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9427	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today, we decide with the Budgetary Support Act, I would say, the prerequisites for the double budget 2007 and 2008. This budget accompanying law is essentially the basis of a successful budgetary policy for the next two years. There has already been a great deal of criticism from the opposition today, for example as regards the increase in mineral oil tax. Above all, the criticism of the Greens has already surprised me a little, because by this measure, namely the increase in mineral oil tax, just €440 million more will be available in the future – of which €120 million, as already mentioned, will be invested in rail and road, and that was also a long time – at least I always understood that – of the Greens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Rossmann]] Especially for climate protection – the second point – we will have to spend a lot more money in the future than before. Therefore, this measure also provides for funding for climate protection. We know that the Kyoto target cannot be achieved, but I still believe that this is a very, very important step in the right direction. It was very important for us that this increase in the tax on mineral oil should be disbanded socially, first by increasing the penalty rate – as we know – and secondly by increasing the negative tax from € 110 to € 200, which has already been introduced today a change request for Krainer, Auer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Rossmann]] It was a little surprised, therefore, that the BZÖ brought a resolution in this direction again. You have either, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, not heard our request, or you assume that you will follow our request, because we will decide as a government group, this measure will be put in place, but the BZÖ would like to take only one resolution. few. I assume that this request will be decided today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I'd like to say: I understand this by social balance! This was a major concern for us Social Democrats and could be implemented together with our government partner. The Austrian economy will grow stronger than previously expected this year and next year. The two major institutes Wifo and IHS have predicted growth of up to 3% for this year. Austria is among the five best countries in Europe. For us, it is important that this positive economic development should also benefit people. People need to feel a little bit of the good economy, and this will contribute a lot to the overall budget policy over the next two years. There will be large investments, especially in future areas, such as employment – unemployment has fallen significantly and will continue to decline significantly. I am thinking of investment in education, the trend change in the social field and also of investment that has already been addressed today in infrastructure. This budget accompanying law creates the prerequisite for a forward-looking budget for the next two years, and we therefore call on you to also agree to the opposition to this budget accompanying law.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9501	The next item is Mrs Schittenhelm. She's done four minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9522	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! In § 12 para. 1 to 11 of the University Law 2002 is the financing of the universities of the federal government. We all know that by means of this university law in 2002, we have created the autonomy that is necessary so that our universities can not only measure themselves in the competition of European universities but can also be at the front. With the University Act 2002 we have set a focus and subsequently also processed and implemented it competently. However, we know that this is possible only with widespread autonomy and with clearly defined framework conditions between politics and universities. And that's what has been successful in recent years. Of course, the prerequisites were clear and defined: the combination of decision-making and responsibility, the optimal use of resources, the qualitative participation and, of course, the foundation for all these areas – a secure global budget in the event of independent funding by universities, through the authorities responsible in these institutions, and the associated new awareness of costs. It has brought enormous positive effects, and it has also been created with the university law at that time the best possible funding base, which our Deputy Minister of Finance, Willi Molterer, is now being rewritten, even extended and supplemented. Ladies and gentlemen! Never before have so many young people studied at Austria's universities, we have never had so many graduates at universities, never before has the study period been as short as now, the young people have never been able to enter economic life so quickly and efficiently, into the labour market where we urgently need it. This university law already bears fruit! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If I have said that our Minister of Finance is going this way, it is quite simple and clear: You know the double budget, the Austrian universities will receive €525 million for the 2007 to 2009 performance period! Here again 500 million for the General Rehabilitation Plan for the University Buildings! The 2007 Budgetary Accompaniment Act also sounds here: With the introduction of the participation control according to § 15 BHG, universities will report the necessary data to the Federal Ministry of Finance quarterly, not least in order to be able to act consistently with a view to the Maastricht criteria. However, this should continue to ensure the liquidity of universities. That is to say, essentially, the 12th annual rule is to be maintained. Of course, it is only possible to agree with the universities that there is a risk of doing so. In this context, I should therefore like to make the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Broukal in order to ensure that this practice is ensured in the future: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9591	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Schittenhelm has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9646	The next item is the speech by Mrs Geelder. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9667	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! The budgets for 2007 and 2008 reflect the new way of the Federal Government. This government has taken over a serious legacy from its predecessor. If, until last, substantial parts of the state budget have been treated as stepchildren, it is now possible to reorganise these old burdens and burdens in favour of the population. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek]] There is more money for education and social affairs and finally again an active labour market policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] Higher funding is also provided for infrastructure, research and development, science, culture and sport. Environmental protection plays a central role. Everything is being done to achieve the national Kyoto target. In order to promote an active climate policy, the 2007 budget accompanying law will increase the oil tax on petrol by 3 cents and for diesel by 5 cents per litre. closed. This is certainly not an undisputed decision. You must not forget the people who do not use their cars for fun, but take long distances every day to get to their workplaces. In order to counteract these burdens, the penalty rate is increased by 10 per cent at the same time, with a further boost being set by the purpose of additional revenue for climate protection. Countries and municipalities have more money to promote passenger transport, which also benefits a larger population. The labour factor also needs further relief. The tax revenue from property taxes, such as real estate tax, gift and inheritance tax, is on average 5 percent in the EU, but only 1 percent in Austria. The current consumption weakness of the Austrian population is due to the fact that income development and income distribution are increasingly apart. At present it must be Relatives low income of 10 € necessarily spend around 8 € again, the contributors of higher incomes return between 4 € and 6 €. These figures show us that we need to make sure that the lower levels of income have more money at their disposal. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] The lack of fiscal justice between wealth and self-employed work will therefore be another topic for the forthcoming tax reform. As a result of the provision of these budgets, a greater margin of flexibility is created in the context of positive economic developments, which can now be increasingly used for future investment. Unlike the savings budgets and burdens of recent years for the Austrians, future budgets are now being decided.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9752	The next item is the speech by Mr Glaser. He's done four minutes. – You are speaking, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9774	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The increases in mineral oil tax – in the case of petrol by 3 cents and diesel by 5 cents per litre – are quite moderate, and because they are intended, they are also important for the expansion of the infrastructure and for the field of climate protection. In this context, one must always also say that, with this price level, we are still a lot below the price level of our neighbouring countries. A few times, it has already been said quite rightly today that this increase, of course, is a burden for the commuters and that one has tried to counteract this burden with the increase of the penalty. I am particularly pleased that it has now been possible to ensure, with an amendment, that it is ensured, especially for those who earn relatively little, that they can also take advantage of this penalty as much as possible. Finally, this is also an important contribution to the mobility of our citizens in rural areas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Part of the increase in mineral oil tax is explicitly intended for climate protection. I would like to say that this issue has finally become a top topic, where everyone really sees the need to put in place strong measures here. Within this climate protection, renewable energy plays an essential role. I think we can say without a doubt that a vision of the Austrian People's Party has become reality in this area with the eco-social market economy. Because ministers Riegler, Fischler, Molterer and now Pröll have set real strong marks to put concrete actions in the field of renewable energy – and not just to talk about it. I think climate protection is in the best hands at our Environment Minister Sepp Pröll. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, but not only the federal government, but also many countries and municipalities do great things in the field of renewable energy. I can only briefly mention the example of my district district Güssing, where 15 years ago an ÖVP mayor and a technician started the district's district heating supply. Today in Güssing there are not only several near and district heating plants, today in Güssing there are three biomass power plants, a gasification plant, soon an oiling plant – all on the basis of biomass – and God is also a research institute that can also employ truly qualified workers. Not only that, it has also succeeded in achieving several million euros in additional value added in the field of agriculture and forestry. In recent years, it has also been tried to integrate the area of tourism and to add value to it. In summary – that is, I believe, the positive news for peripheral rural regions –: More than 1 000 jobs have been created in recent years. In the next two years, it will be possible to create more than 500 jobs, so that renewable energy is a source of hope in many areas and for all of us, especially in rural areas, which we cannot support enough. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9841	The next item is the report by Mr Steier. He's done three minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9862	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! From an environmental point of view – I can attach myself to my previous speakers – both the budgets 2007 and 2008 have the same signal effect as the Budgetary Accompanying Act. Very significant changes to the 2007 Budgetary Accompanying Act concern climate change, for example, as mentioned several times, the increase in the oil tax on petrol and diesel, but also the increase in funds for the JI/CDM programme. In these parts, the government's focus on climate protection and ensuring the achievement of the national Kyoto target is shown in figures. The revenue from the planned adjustment of the rate of duty on petrol by 3 cents and diesel by 5 cents from 1st. In addition to improving climate protection, it will also be used to finance an infrastructure offensive. With €11 billion for the expansion of public transport, we make an important contribution to the reduction of CO2 emissions. A high proportion of the volume of the project By 2020, the project will be invested in the expansion of the rail, a total of € 22.3 billion, exclusive of the special financing of the Brenner base tunnel. However, the increase in the tax on mineral oil is also true for many commuters who cannot always choose whether to use public transport or by car to work. In Austria, 600,000 counterparts depend on the car every day, of which 24 000 are citizens of the castle, who currently have to travel to Vienna every day or every week. These people are burdened by the most increase, which we have tried to compensate for with the new penalty. Until yesterday in the evening it looked bad. Today there is an amendment which we welcome more than anything else. Ladies and gentlemen, the increase mentioned at the outset in the allocation for the purchase of emission reductions in other industrialized countries or in developing countries is highly differentiated. In principle, in the medium term, but also in terms of economics, the increased focus on JI/CDM projects is the wrong way, because this way little Austrian value creation is generated and because we need to strengthen our efforts to achieve domestic emissions. In the sense of climate protection, there will be a clear increase in the next few years. Dear ladies and gentlemen! We must, and we agree, seek creative solutions and develop them fully, with a validity: Much is imaginable, just one thing, namely that we insist on the level of the past. We must work together to improve it and make it better. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9905	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Arbitrator. You have done three minutes, Mr Deputies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9926	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! The increase in mineral oil tax on diesel and petrol is not only a measure that brings more revenue, but also, above all, a measure that also brings revenue that makes sense, namely for more environmental protection and also as a contribution, as a control measure to the achievement of the Kyoto objective. The aim is, however, also to ensure that the share of the moss that benefits the countries without debt is also used for the expansion of public transport in the city, in the region. And in order to ensure this and to increase the pressure, there is also a political agreement with the countries and communities that have been taken that these additional revenues can be used for climate protection. The expansion of public passenger transport – also in depth to the debate today in the early years – also shows that this is very much accepted by people in good quality. And because we're in the middle of today. For example, I spoke about Vienna early on, so I can say that there have been rising passenger numbers in the city of Vienna for years. This was also achieved by the fact that there is a more compacted network, more lines, new lines, new trains, both on the tram and in the subway area new trains and rolling material, but also dense intervals and longer operating times, both earlier and later at night. And if One improves the offer in such a way, then the passenger numbers also rise. In this context, a moderate increase in the price of travel is not only tolerable, but also quite clear to the Viennans. And we will again be able to record rising passenger numbers next year and thus also prove that what has been said here by the BZÖ is certainly not correct. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second important point, which is also financed by these additional incomes, is the increase in the rate of penalty, which is a great success, which contributes to the discharge of commuters and thus does not make the increase in most for them so striking. But – and this is the important thing – there is also an income group that deserves so little that it does not pay a tax and therefore would not have benefited from the increase of the penalty. Therefore, I am very glad that today the request will also succeed or succeed in increasing the penalty of 110 € to 200 €, i.e. by 90 €, and in this respect, in particular, will also give the lowest incomes the chance to benefit from this award. I would also like to mention that this penalty is not even provided for in the Coalition Agreement that it is a social measure which this government has also taken on the basis of a parliamentary initiative. And that makes the success of my view even greater. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With this increased penalty, the Federal Government, not the Federal Government, is taking another important step towards combating poverty. In addition to raising minimum pensions over the poverty limit of €726, in addition to raising the minimum wage to €1,000, in addition to the discount-free pension of 40 and 45 years insurance periods, this increased penalty is also one of those measures which shows that this government and this parliamentary majority take the fight against poverty seriously. It's a good manuscript because it's a red manuscript.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9986	Mr Kirchgatterer came next to me. 3 minutes' speaking time, honourable Member. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10008	Madam President. Dear Federal Government! High house! After finalising the Committee's deliberations and at the beginning of this plenary week, I would like to thank the staff of the Ministry of Finance for their positive work, as did the chairman of the Budgetary Subcommittee for the debates and questions of all political groups. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] They have contributed to the preparation of the second reading of the proposal and to these agenda items. Many Austrians expect state expenditure to be forward-looking, to meet today's and tomorrow's tasks. Many rightly expect the resources to be used efficiently and technological progress in the administration to be increasingly absorbed. And above all, many expect a socially just state, socially fair, because cohesion in society is a high value, for us social democrats a cornerstone of our policy. Customer orientation, greater efficiency, improved services under the Law on Court Fees, the reduction of administrative costs by the Family Tax Compensation Act, the valorization by the Pupil Aid Act, the Labour Market Policy Financing Act – one could continue the list from the Budget Support Act – are welcome measures. The people in our country, especially the workers, the small and medium-sized enterprises, who bear the greatest tax burden, have a reliable, consistent and solid partner with social democracy and with State Secretary Christoph Matznetter, with a view to increasing future orientation, greater efficiency and greater social justice and the preparations for a tax reform that will bring more tax justice. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I come to the conclusion and think it appropriate to express my appreciation to all those who, with their work, have generated the tax revenue with their services, workers, workers, the self-employed, Director-Generals-General in the same way and equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10059	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. You have done three minutes of speaking time, Mr Deputies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10080	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Infrastructure is a key issue of this budget template, and this is also with good law, because modern infrastructure is the prerequisite for the success of the Austrian economic location. The transport routes in their entirety, rail, road, rivers, aeronautics and telecommunications, are the life lines of our modern society. They connect people and connect Austria with the crucial markets for the future. Modern transport policy must therefore be based on the mobility needs of people, on the transport needs of the economy, on the objectives of environmental protection and on the protection of life and health, for only in this way will it be possible to increase the quality of life of people in Austria. The transport budget with the accompanying laws will, I think, meet these challenges. That is why we have a situation like never before. Never before has so much money been invested in infrastructure, rail and road. Compared to our neighbours, we invest three times as much. This will also ensure the quality of the location for the economy, strengthen growth and reduce unemployment. A tangible joint project on successful future security, a project with social democratic, social and ecological principles. Of course, the circumstances are different. For the opposition, of course, it is always too little and too slow. I would have liked more for my constituency too, but, of course, the government's responsibility and also the need for economics in the interest of taxpayers. Therefore, work will also have to be aligned according to priorities and, above all, conceptually. And I think that this budget proposal will also be in line with these considerations. The Wermutstrophen MöSt has been mentioned several times. It's not about kicking out the commuters. No, that's a necessary steering measure. And the challenge will be to use the resources as planned for infrastructure, passenger transport and environmental protection. If this succeeds, then the countries, regions and municipalities will also benefit. And at least in the medium term, this will also help to improve the situation for the commuters or reduce the number of commuters. discharge was addressed – of course, too little on this issue too. We will also, in particular, try to improve the situation for these in the future. Summary: Despite all the oppositional criticism, I think that this double budget brings new qualities and thus also more fairness for the people in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10139	Thank you, honourable Member. The next item is the speech by Mr Muchich. You have done three minutes of speaking time, Mr Deputies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10163	Madam President. Dear Women Secretary of State! Dear Federal Minister! If you want to make and create changes for the people in this country, you also need legal foundations. With the presence of the 2007 budget accompanying law and, above all, under the social democratic leadership of the new Federal Government, a new fair and social time has been introduced in our country since 2000. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I may bring you an extract or a draft federal law, which is the draft federal law that amends the Health and Nutritional Safety Act. It was decided to submit a self-employed application to the National Council, which is subject to an amendment to the Health and Food Safety Act. This will open up a possibility to minimise the financial burden arising from the requirements for effective pharmacovigilance and to introduce, by means of a regulation, a levy per proprietary medicinal product, in order to create safe medicines. If today, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, who spoke of “social cold”, then above all in the direction of an opposition party: This social cold has been in existence since 2000 until the 11th century. January 2007 in our country. With the 2007/2008 budget under the leadership of SPÖ, first steps and clear signs have been taken to improve the living conditions of people in our country. Just a few examples: The planned increase in child benefit, the increase in school allowances and the flat rate, the planned 2 per cent rule on prescription fees, self-maintenance and, last but not least, the increase in minimum pensions. The increase in minimum pensions alone has succeeded in getting 150 000 women across the poverty line. These are measures that can be seen. Of course, we're all being asked out every day by people: Can it be a little more? That is why we need this 2007 budget accompanying law to re-establish a social, fair redistribution in this country to take measures to provide legal basis for safe drugs, for additional investment in to be able to finance environmental promotion in the area of road and rail infrastructure, in the field of old-age rehabilitation. That is precisely why, ladies and gentlemen, we should all vote in favour of this 2007 budget accompanying law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10220	Thank you, honourable Member. We have a speaker now. I am still asking for a little peace and attention, because that was already very, very difficult to understand. Mr Obernosterer, you are the last speaker in this debate. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10248	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers and State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the 2007/2008 budget is a fair budget, a fair budget for all and a forward-looking budget for that country. You have to say something, too. The fact that, of course, in the debate between the government parties and the opposition parties is different is in the sense of the matter. But I would like to take a brief look at the statements made by Klubobmann Westenthaler and, at all, at the BZÖ, at your criticism points, which I simply can't leave like that. The item ‘Pendler-Pauschale’ reads: There's an increase, it's massively criticized. I think only where the BZÖ still has something to talk about, in the country of Carinthia, was the penalty abolished in 2004 and only in 2006 was it decided again at the request of the ÖVP. [[Complementary and intermediate calls to the ÖVP.]] On the criticism of small and medium-sized enterprises and tourism, and on the fact that small and medium-sized enterprises are too little in the hands of the poor at all: I do not want to look back on the last seven years, but only to show what the BZÖ has done in Carinthia. Especially in tourism, there has been an increase in the last year: 100 per cent of the tourist tax, 100 per cent of the salary tax, and between 40 and 60 per cent, the tourist tax has been increased. This means that the tax rate in this area has been increased by up to 10 percent in tourism for farm, private room rental and small business holidays. I should also like to say the following, if you already mention the budget and the levies: Our Minister of Finance and this government see that our youth has a proper budget. The Stability Pact is not even being fulfilled in Carinthia. Please turn in front of your own door or make order in front of your own door before you get up with such words! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What can't be understood at all and what goes so far under the belt line that it's almost to the soles of the foot is today's distrust. Our Minister of Health focuses on the target group, which is our future, with our youth. We know this problem, and I would like to congratulate Mrs Minister for taking the time to get out and inform our youth. And as for the photos that are taken there: It is strange to me that no photographers and no television team may be present in the presence of ministers. If we see that the BZÖ condemns the children, I want to show you how the BZÖ works: with babies! [[The speaker keeps up-to-date photos.]] – And that is to condemn!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10317	Mr Dolinschek spoke in favour of an actual correction. You know the legal provisions, Mr Deputies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10341	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I am indeed correct in saying that it is not true what Mr Obernosterer said in his speech that the cost of travel, the cost of commuting in Carinthia has been abolished. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] The fact is that the shuttle fee has been restructured and significantly increased to travel costs. Obviously, the colleague has no idea. It has been changed in Carinthia to a kilometre-dependent travel cost aid for workers who actually relieve the commuters. [[Abg. Steibl: That's a speech, that's not an actual correction!]] There is also the paper here, Mr Cot.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10397	As the last speaker before the vote, Mr Oellinger has been spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10418	Madam President, thank you for giving me the floor. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I am not referring to the budget accompanying law, but to the distrust amendment tabled on the occasion of the debate on the budget accompanying law against the Federal Minister Kdolsky. Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler referred to the request as follows: Chaos, braids, bad luck and pans. If I hear this sentence, at least at the first moment I do not think of the Federal Minister, but the BZÖ ministerial team in the last legislative period. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] If it were possible, then we would like to bring this mistrust request against the BZÖ ministerial team. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] That would have deserved this mistrust request. I tell you one thing, Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler: I am speaking against this motion of censure, not because we Greens are in all respects of an opinion with the Federal Minister – certainly not! The question of photographing in schools is a highly sensitive question. It is also clearly regulated. No matter if this – and this is the address of the ÖVP member – has also done the BZÖ with babies, if it is not allowed, then it is not allowed, and that is true, no matter which party. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] You, Mrs. Federal Minister Kdolsky, have said in connection with your argument on the request for distrust – and this is probably for the reason to justify this –: They must act as a Federal Minister because of the significant increase in the number of veneric or sexual diseases occurring in Austria. - Yes, that's a concern, Mrs. Federal Minister. That's what we're sharing. Then, Mrs. Federal Minister, it would be necessary – and maybe have They have also taken these steps – that we are finally dealing with a better social law or social security for persons working in the prostitution industry. That would be necessary and a correct answer – and perhaps, Mrs. Federal Minister, you can also comment on it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We are also – in order to say it quite openly – not one opinion with you on the question of the pill after which you do not want to be ordered or released without prescription. Nor do we agree with you, Mrs Federal Minister, on the issue of the adoption of children by homosexual couples. [[Abg. Steibl: That doesn't do anything!]] Because you claim medical reasons here, I say to you, Mrs Federal Minister: The medical reasons are certainly not sufficient and do not explain anything. They have justified the lack of men and women in these relations. We know from clear socio-scientific studies that gender and gender roles are a big difference. There is a male part and a female part. Why should this not also be possible in homosexual partnerships – as it is possible and is lived elsewhere and is also lived in Austria – that these children are raised? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] I think that makes sense. But no matter what differences we have with you, Mrs. Federal Minister: In my opinion, in the view of the Green Club, they are not sufficient to justify a request for distrust at that hour. We have differences in content with you, and I hope, Mrs Federal Minister, that we will have the opportunity to discuss this too. But if you, Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler... – “Bussi, Bussi” you can save yourself! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Bussi, Bussi!]] If you are talking about the fact that the Federal Minister or the Federal Government is paying the child care allowance, I am already wondering: What did your ministers do in the years when you had the child care allowance for administration? Where were your ministers, who had become active accordingly? – Nothing you've done, so don't blame others! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Another one, Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler: It is their ministers who have concealed any evaluation of the child care allowance which has undermined the evaluation of the credit threshold! We would have had the opportunity to judge on the basis of facts. If you accuse someone of this, do not accuse the Federal Minister in this case, but accuse your own ministers! Chaos, braids, bad luck and pans: These are terms that remain inseparable from the BZÖ, and this will not change your desperate attempts to be introduced here with a mistrust request! This is the mark of the BZÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10507	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we shall vote on the draft Budgetary Accompanying Act 2007 in paragraph 67 of the Supplements. To this end, Members of Parliament have tabled an additional amendment or amendment. In addition, the honourable Member has power. Mr Rossmann asked for a separate vote. I shall vote on the part of the request for a separate vote and on the parts covered by the supplementary or amending proposal and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. We shall vote separately on Articles 1 and 2 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this to be a sign of approval. –This is accepted by a majority. The Members of Parliament, Mr Auer, Mr Krainer and Mr Cot, have tabled an additional or amendment concerning Article 3. Mr Magistrate also has power. Rossmann asked for a separate vote on Rule 3. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a sign for those who vote for Rule 3 as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, Mr Krainer. – This is accepted by a majority. We now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 4 as amended by the Committee's report. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a sign of approval. – In turn, this is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 5 as amended by the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This, in turn, has happened by a majority. We are now voting separately on Articles 6, 7, 12, 13, 14 and 16 as amended by the Committee's report. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 19 as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. For a separate vote, Articles 21, 22, 23, 24, 26 and 27 shall also be as amended by the Committee's report. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a sign of approval. – In turn, this is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, including the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, Mr President, on Rule 8 and Rule 15. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This has been adopted by a majority, and therefore the draft law has been adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues concerning the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Health, Family and Youth in accordance with Article 74(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act. [[Rejoicing and intervening with representatives of the ÖVP and SPÖ, as Abg. Ing. Westenthaler has already risen from his seat]] As it is necessary for such a decision of the National Council, as referred to in paragraph 2 of the Constitutional Treaty, to have half of the Members present, I expressly note this. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – That is rejected. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Brosz, colleagues and colleagues on the annual increase in student fees and tuition fees. [[s. Correction by President Dr Glawischnig S 123.]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: tuition fees? Interesting! Brosz requests an increase in the tuition fees! I think this is very good!]] [[General hustle and bustle.]] - I'm asking for peace! I can't do anything for this shortening right now. [[Cheerfulness of Deputy Chancellor Mag. Molterer.]] Mr Vice-Chancellor, I ask you a little bit of rest! I can't read it if they're always laughing at me. Thank you. [[General hustle and bustle.]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Bucher, colleagues and colleagues on the implementation of a tax reform in 2008 with a view to relinquishing the middle class. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Bucher, ladies and gentlemen, on the introduction of commuting aid in the form of a kilometre-dependent commuting allowance with a negative tax effect. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Broukal, Dr Brinek, colleagues on university financial control. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 17.) Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Health and Food Safety Act, together with the title and entry into point 68 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. It's accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is accepted by a majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[14:34:56]] 3rd. Point report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 104/A(E) by Mr Mag. Brigid Weinzinger, colleagues on the prohibition of imports and trade in seal products (73 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10655	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Hornek. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10682	Madam President. Federal Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! A vice chancellor simply laughed at the fact that in this short time a double budget was brought under the roof and compartment. I would like to congratulate our Vice-Chancellor. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today a request on which there is a broad consensus. Five political groups jointly call on the Federal Government to prohibit imports, processing and in-transport of seal products in Austria and to use all available means at European level for a Community-wide ban on imports and trade with products of all types of seal. The background is clear. There is no compelling interest in seal products – neither in their meat nor in their skins. Therefore, there is no reasonable reason to kill hundreds of thousands of animals a year. The seal hunters make use of the fact that many seals live in colonies at the time of reproduction. Especially on islands, the seals had little to fear from humans, which makes the animals particularly confidential. The hunting for seals is part of the traditional way of life of the natives, the Inuit, and in this case largely serves self-sufficiency. The centre of the seal hunt is today the northern coast of Canada, where seals are killed for the production of skins and oil. In 2006, Canada allowed the hunting of 325,000 seals. The quota for 2007 is 270 000 animals. In view of the overfishing of the Atlantic by high seas, the fishers of the seal hunt are positively opposed because they can see from it an economic stand. The growth of the seal stock is indicated by the hunters. The Canadian Ministry of Fisheries estimates the population of around 5.8 million animals. China and Russia are among the main producers of seal skins. The annual seal hunt on Canada's east coast has now become a PR war: On the one hand, the animal protectors protest mediocrely against hunting, with pictures where the hunters sand blood-flooded seals in the direction of boat: Images that shake, pictures that go under the skin for people, and on the other hand, are the inhabitants of Newfoundland, who refer to their centuries-old tradition and that the seal hunt represents a vital source of income for many fishermen, without which they would be forced to retreat from their villages, which offer hardly any other economic prospects. Ladies and gentlemen! But it is also about a lot of money. The lively demand of rich Russians and Chinese gives the hunters record prices. In 2006 a seal fur brought about €70 – more than ten times as much as in the early nineties. Newfoundland alone exported seal products last year for 36 million €. There is also a lot of money on the part of NGOs that do not respect their name in this context. Photos of cute faces of young seals triggered an unprecedented flood of donations. Several international animal welfare organisations have become very rich in this context. The ten largest of them in the United States alone – carefully estimated – consume about 150 million dollars each year, a multiple of what the seal hunters can produce. These figures are not supposed to be diverted from the core subject, but this background information makes it partly easier to understand why this conflict is so vehemently carried out. Ladies and gentlemen, with this joint five-party proposal, we are in line with the majority of the Austrian population. However, harmonised European solutions would be better suited to the free movement of goods than this national measure.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10744	Thank you, honourable Member. Before I give the next speaker the floor, I have to make a correction: Because of a spelling error in the Croquis, there was a wrong description of a motion for a resolution. The applicant wishes to be correct. That's what I'm doing here: The motion for a resolution on the annual increase in student and study grants, it stated. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's what we thought! But you have voted something completely different!]] – However, it is correctly noted in the Official Protocol. The next speaker is Mr Keck. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10783	Madam President. Mein Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! If you've heard about the seal hunt in these days, these will probably be reports by hundreds of seals hunters in the ice sea, which are in the highest risk of life through icebergs, deepest colds, storms and the power of the sea. This is tragic, and it is for the seal hunters to wish that this danger would pass without harming them. But this year, ladies and gentlemen, the threat has been reversed for the first time. So far, it has been the seal hunters who have brought death and massacres to the ice seas. Every year at this time, they drive their icebreaker boats to the settlement areas of the seals to hunt them there and really kill them at the best. Hundreds of thousands of seals, not older than 12 to 13 weeks old, are killed – with wooden punches, with self-built nailboards, with huge ice pickles. Just to illustrate what it is all about, I, Mr Hornek, have also brought pictures, and I will show you, ladies and gentlemen, these pictures. These seals babies, ladies and gentlemen, are affected. [[The speaker holds a picture in the height and then places it in front of him on the speaker's seat.]] This is a saddle seal, about 12 weeks old, a lovely animal – not a flight animal – that does not scare people and does not fear them either. And this, ladies and gentlemen – because it is always said that these are advertising activities of the NGOs – happens to these seals after the sluggish of the seal hunters: [[the speaker places another image on the speaker's desk]] It's really a battlefield! – And I would also like to inform you what the whole thing is about: for fur and for pills. Ladies and gentlemen, for some doses of these pills, exactly for four doses of these pills, which can also be obtained from plants or from fish, a saddle seal must be killed. [[The speaker shows a third picture.]] For four doses of these pills, one of these saddle seals must be killed. And for a fur that is removed from the affected animal with full consciousness – and we know that almost 50 percent of these animals, the seals, are skinned alive – the seal hunters often receive no more than 50 to 70 dollars. Who really earns money here – Mr Hornek has already said that – is the industry that implements billions of these products and does not frighten them from manipulations. We only visited a delegation from Canadians last week who wanted to agree that the seal hunt was species protection and that the slaughter of the seals was controlled. But I can only say one thing: The slaughter of the seals is not only bestial and contradicts all notions of animal protection, but it is also illegal. If we agree to this five-party proposal today, we will be joining the series of USA, Mexico, Italy, Croatia and Belgium, which have already issued import bans, as well as Germany. The EU also wrote a resolution in 2006 calling on all Member States to adopt trade bans on seal products. I would like to thank all of you, ladies and gentlemen, very much for agreeing to this proposal today, and I am pleased that we have managed to do something together for animal welfare in Austria, and that we have taken a big step forward here.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10850	Thank you, honourable Member. The next item is Mrs Lichtenecker's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10874	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Every year at this time The seal hunt is located in the middle of high activism. The seal hunt starts at the beginning of April, and this year more than 270 000 seals have been released for killing – even more so where seal reproduction is already under threat, and that is because of climate change. In order for seals to reproduce well, it takes a dense, compact package that is no longer given in this form at the time when they are born and grown up. Even government scientists are already criticizing the high number of deaths that have already far exceeded birth rates. In addition, these killing rates are much higher than is officially known, taking into account the dark count. This has little to do with “Jagd. ” De facto, it's a massacre that's being executed on these animals. Here many standards in animal welfare are violated. We know that the seals are put to death painfully, that the fur will be removed from them in part if they are not even dead. A clear step needs to be taken here. For example, the Ministry of Fisheries in Canada has also announced that more than 75 percent of newborn seals perish in St. Lorenz-Strom due to the weather conditions. In contrast to the previous statements, it should be stressed that this commercial seal hunt has nothing to do with such a weighty industry – it accounts for almost 0.5 percent of Newfoundland's gross domestic product – let alone that Canada would depend on these meat, fat and fur resources – all of this is in excess. Rather, the indigenous peoples and the inuits who are entrusted with this hunt – but that has nothing to do with what is in the present proposal – for themselves, for their survival, at quite different times and at very different places. What is going on in the other area is something that is deeply opposed. And, ladies and gentlemen, animal welfare, animal rights have something to do with respect and appreciation for the other living beings and are an important building block of humanity. And that is exactly what we want to take into account in respect of the animal world. In this respect, it is good that today, jointly borne by all parties, this ban on imports and trade of seal products and, furthermore, the Minister is called on to introduce such activities at EU level in order to ensure that there will be a ‘human’, an actual long-term survival of seals in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10916	Next, Mr Magistrate. Dr. Haimbuchner. Mr President, you have also been talking for 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10938	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! For many years we have known from various media reports the profoundly dissuasive killing methods of the seal hunters. Without a doubt, the level of civilisation of a society is also measured by how it deals with animals. This, of course, also includes the type of killing. We liberals deeply reject the fact that hundreds of thousands of animals are slaughtered in the most cruel way every year, on the altar of international capitalism. I mentioned at the outset that the hunters' slaughtering machinery is documented each year by extensive image material and leads to a wave of disarmament worldwide. The skinning of seals partly with full consciousness shocks not only animal protectors, but every person who fears the creation. Of course, we must not support this slaughtering machine of the seal hunters. Although I do not know what seal products are traded in Austria, I do not know anything about them, but there is certainly no question of a preventive prevention of trade. However, I would have a few critical questions to the Greens to stop a little bit of animal protection populism, because the question is whether the saddle seals and folding hat seals are at all affected by the Washington Convention on the Protection of Species or whether the population of seals is mainly at risk by the fact that industrial fishing, which is still supported by the EU, leads to a withdrawal of the life of seals. In this context, the Greens should also consider their position on the EU in principle. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The FPÖ therefore calls for continued efforts to improve animal welfare in the killing of animals during bilateral and international discussions. We call for the conclusion of internationally binding regulations on animal welfare-friendly killing and fishing methods. However, I would expect the Greens to use them not only for seals in the Arctic, but also for the unborn human life, instead of demanding the death of a disease. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We liberals are very much in favour of animal protection, respect for creation, but in the foreground is still human life for us. There can be no difference between unborn and born life.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11031	The next item is the speech by Mr Schalle. He made a speech time of 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11053	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to comment on the Greens' request for a ban on imports of seal products. It is a request that has become a five-party request in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, supplemented by an exact formulation, i.e. the approval of all. Ladies and gentlemen! Although Austria is not exactly the country in which seal products are traded, it is thoughtful that the EU is still being classified by experts as the largest market for seal products. I do not want to deal with the atrocities of seal killing, but I am convinced that the economy for cruel action is no longer given. Even in those countries where seal hunting takes place, one has already spoken out against it. I therefore urge the Federal Government to use all available means at EU level for a Community-wide ban on imports and trade with products of all types of seal. Ladies and gentlemen, let me now say in my contribution to the debate on a subject that concerns us people in the very sense. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not exaggerate: We're all sitting on a time bomb called Temelín! I wonder how carelessly this Federal Government wants to deal with this issue even further. The fact is that you don't have to be a nuclear opponent in order to measure Temelín's risk, because the simple mind of the house tells you that in the ongoing incidents there can be no reason to vote on something. Much more than a hundred incidents prove that eastern and western technology, as it exists in Temelín, is incompatible. The situation today, after six years, is such that the problem was obviously not solved by the Westinghouse modernization, but, on the contrary, was greatly aggravated. [[Call:Robben]] The American firearm bundles are deforming during operation and pressing the control bars, which makes the latter free of charge – especially important in emergency shutdowns! – to be disabled. The increasing deterioration in the situation led the Czech supervisory authority to require the reactors to be left monthly in order to be able to carry out control sample tests.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11091	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand your commitment, but I must nevertheless ask you to come back to the matter. One, two minutes are all right, but otherwise it has to be spoken about this request! Please, continue.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11113	This situation affects all of us. I think all scientists point to the problem of Temelín. We stand when something happens there, really in front of a nuclear melt, and what happens there, I don't need to tell you. The super GAU is actually preprogrammed – we have seen this in Chernobyl. I do not think it is enough for Mr Gusenbauer to drive to Temelín and not even take the Minister for the Environment to solve the Temelín problem. I think we need to do everything here and meet the Czechs, also ask the EU for help to stop Temelín. But this is only possible if we all work together to solve the problem of Temelín for Austria and for the Czechs and also for the Germans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11150	Mrs Eder-Gitschthaler is speaking next time. She's done a speaking time of 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11172	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State! High house! We blacks are also in detail for the seals – Mr Hornek has already explained this – and I brought you a small seal, as it was distributed before Parliament last week. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ and Bravorufe at SPÖ]] [[The speaker holds a small white plush seal.]] I put them here on the speaker's desk so that we can all be reminded of how important the seals should be to us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Now it will be embarrassing!]] But now, to the point of the matter: I am very glad that a unanimous motion for a resolution was adopted last week in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which prohibits the import, processing and in-transport of seal products in Austria. We will also support and strengthen an EU-wide ban on imports and trade. Why do we do that? . Well, because an EU directive which has been in force since 1983, which prohibits the import of young animals, is simply not enough. As stated in the present proposal, and which has already been shown several times today, we are dealing on the one hand with the preservation of the population of seals, which has recently been threatened by climate change, on the other hand with the brutal killing methods which have been victims of the 300 000 young saddle seals each year. I can only join this argument with deep heart and with full conviction, especially as there have also been numerous information campaigns and we find many media reports all over the world, which show us an intrusive view of what happens to these animals. I have been following this personally for a number of years now, especially since I have a relationship in Canada, and there too more and more committed people are finding themselves, who thank God for the brutal slaughter of the seals and understand that this is an important measure for climate protection. It is a very positive sign today that this request is being dealt with here in Parliament. Furthermore, our Environment Minister Josef Pröll is also very keen at EU level to extend this trade ban to cat and dog skins. I can only join this fully in content, especially since I am also a “mother of cats. ” - Yes! [[Ruf:Katenmutter]] [[Abg. Rosary: Cat Mother?- Oh, my God!]] Another question of principle – Mr Keck, I think, has already shown this –: Who really needs seal products today? Are you aware of what you need for your daily life? – I didn’t actually think of anything. And since seal products in Austria do not play a major role anyway, we can all live well with the decision and do not need to have seal products brought into our country anymore. Only drops of wormwood – Mr Hornek has already done this – is the thought of the indigenous population of Canada, and here we should see that we do not withdraw these people's livelihoods. The seals are important to us and we therefore support this request, but we must not forget all the emotionality of this issue on these people, and therefore we are all and the NGOs and the international community. Finally, I am pleased that we can do something for Austrian animal welfare together with this five-party proposal today. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11250	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Bayr, would you like to speak for a minute or should we interrupt? – Then I would suggest: Before we reach the call for urgent question, I interrupt the session for a minute, and then we continue at 3 p.m. [[The sitting was suspended at 14.59 a.m. and resumed at 15.01 a.m.]] [[15:01:50]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr. Peter Pilz, colleagues at the Federal Minister for Finance concerning censorship of the files for the Committee of Inquiry on the procurement of fighter aircraft (692/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11299	I'll start the interrupted session again. We are now entering the urgent debate on the written question 692/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11499	I declare Mr. Dr. Pilz as the first questioner on the grounds of the question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11535	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with a quote of not the highest, but the highest, and the quote is: “I now expect full transparency and enlightenment.” This quote dates back to 11. ==References====External links== [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But in compliance...!]] [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: Right! Got hit! The only thing the fungus is right about!]] Mr Magister behind me now expects full transparency and clarification. [[towards Deputy Chancellor Mag. Molterer]] The question is how he expects it, but the more important question is what he himself contributes to it. – The Committee of Inquiry regularly turns to the Minister of Finance with so-called evidence and asks for the transmission of tax documents. Today, there has again been a letter from the Ministry of Finance asking us to explain the relationship between Major General Wolf and the Causa Eurofighter, because only if we justify to the Ministry of Finance that there is a connection can the tax documents be transmitted to us. I'll get you together. The Minister of Finance does not know the connection between Major General Wolf and the Causa Eurofighter, he does not know the connection between Steininger and Eurofighter, he does not know the connection between all other lobbyists and Eurofighters – but he adopts himself, in ignorance of all contexts, in ignorance of all facts, in ignorance of all persons, as he documents us in one letter after another, to weaken the files until they look like a party program of the Austrian People's Party. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: According to the Constitution!]] I've never seen an act that looks like that before. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, who of you knows file of this kind? [[The speaker holds a document in height to show that almost the entire text has been blackened in it.]] 43 lines of booking of Mr. Steininger – a single one remains after the minister has applied his black felt pen: €1 822.25, Buffet Golf Tournier Bundesheer/EADS. But what's in the other 42 lines? We know that these are advertising expenditures, Mr Steininger's advertising expenses, that is, professional expenses. At that time, it has practically only received money from EADS. So he has de facto exercised his activity only for EADS. His expenses can therefore only have been expenses on behalf of EADS, if they were professional expenses. And this isn't just an account sheet. [[Keeping a new piece of paper in height]] There's the next one, there's the next one – we can go through it this way: black, black, even blacker, even blacker, an act like this one has not yet been sent to this house in this form. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Oja, in the Banking Committee permanently!]] Now, not only is the question: Is this a contribution to the work of the Committee of Inquiry?, but also: Could this be the Minister of Finance? – The Minister of Finance claims: Yeah, I can blackmail what I think is right. I have addressed the President of the National Council, and the President has commissioned an opinion on the legal and legislative services. – Mr Mag. Mr Molterer, I would very much like to take this opinion, which sets out a very clear position of Parliament, because Parliament, the lawyers of the House, clearly notes that none of these shortcomings have a legal basis. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But of course, Mr. Pilz! That's constitutional!]] If that's too little for you: We present a statement by university professor Heinz Mayer, who literally explains: “In front of the background...” – Yes, the situation in this house is: [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP.]] We are talking about constitutional law – answer: mockish laughter on the part of the Austrian People's Party. This is the way in which the federal constitution has been handled by the Austrian People's Party for years. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For you, under Chancellor Schüssel – regrettably – the permanent and intentional breach of the Constitution has become a very normal means of politics. [[New condolences with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That is exactly where we are. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Madam President, the intentional breach of the Constitution is not a call for order?]] And it is important that one of the most important constitutional lawyers in this Republic, Mayer, should be identified – I quote and note the nervousness of the ÖVP; but in the course of the committee work, this legitimate nervousness will continue to increase –: [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Is this an order call or not?]] ‘In the light of these general constitutional considerations, it should be noted in the present context that the tax document ‘Steininger’ was presented, inter alia, in the form of account sheets. The majority of advertising expenditure has been unmistakable. This procedure shall be inadmissible.” This is unmistakably stated by university professor Heinz Mayer. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: “Constitutional breach”! – The lower league, it doesn't go deeper!]] University professor Dr. Bernd-Christian Funk sent us his opinion, his opinion, only one hour ago. It says – I quote – that: ‘The system of the relevant rules and principles of the Rules of Procedure shows a clear overall picture: The decision on the information requested shall be made exclusively by the Committee. Where the Committee requires the submission of certain acts, the Offices responsible for presentation shall be required to comply with this mandate. An examination or selection from the point of view of the relevance or the safeguarding of the duty of office shall not be permitted to the competent authorities.’ [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Do you withdraw this accusation, Mr. Deputies, yes or no?]] And on top of that: "The assessment of the relevance of information lies exclusively with the Committee itself. A pre-selection by the financial management is not permitted in view of the links of investigation and investigation. In principle, any information contained in the requested tax acts may contain indications of transactions that could be relevant for the performance of the investigational order.’; Radio locks: ‘As indicated in the above considerations, the procedure of financial management (submission of tax documents with unmistakable parts of the text) is not legal in the specific situation.’ [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Do you withdraw this accusation now?]] That is perfectly clear and perfectly clear. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Excuse me!]] And one, Dr. Schüssel, in your political diary: The times when you can dictate what is happening in the Austrian Parliament, these times are fortunately over! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hornek: You are condemned, Mr. Pilz!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Do you withdraw this now or not?]] Their entire political power over the Committee of Inquiry is nothing more than attempts to interfere, than attempts at disability, which have remained ineffective until now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter]] You must now take note of the following: You are dealing with a new Parliament! [[Abg. Dr. Schussel: We have to do with an old mushroom!]] They have to do with a Parliament which is no longer of the ÖVP on the short term. Leine can be led! You don't have a government parliament that does at the push of a button what Federal Chancellor Schüssel Klubobmann Molterer has applied. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Do you keep the accusation straight or not?]] Only by the fact that there has been a change of roles, the old conditions are not guaranteed for the future. We have new relationships. We have parliamentary investigations, we have a controlling Parliament, and we have a Parliament that sees a chancellor in a simple chancellor breakfast making a decision that we know today, in the light of the findings of the Committee of Inquiry, that it should never have been made in this form. [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: Incorrect!]] Mr Mag. Molterer! After these censorship measures in the Steininger Act are clearly illegal and unconstitutional, the question we are now asking is: [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: Incorrect!]] Why do it? You do? What is behind these lines? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Report Mayer read exactly!]] What's to fear here? What do you have to hide here objectively and politically? [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Are there any further references to military here? Is there any indication here of further payments? Is there any indication here of grants in political areas? The question that arises more and more is: If, on the one hand, Parliament, the majority of the Committee of Inquiry and all the leading lawyers of that Republic formulate a clear and constitutional legal opinion, why is the Austrian People's Party always on the other side? [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You've never been on the right side before?]] Why is the Austrian People's Party not in any way representing the interests of the Republic, but solely the interests of two companies, namely the interests of EADS and Eurofighter? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] What are the motives of the Austrian People's Party? Now I'm telling you something about a judgment that I've heard from the APA today and that my lawyer has not yet been sent: Of course, like other members of the Committee of Inquiry, I will not let myself be prevented from continuing to publish all the necessary information on the bills of the companies of the Rumpold couple. [[Abg. Hornek: You are a repeater!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schüssel.]] Of course, if the court takes the form of an incitement, then we will find another form that is sharper in the case. Instead of this invoice word by word, I will place the invoices from the protocols of the Examining Committee on my website. And we will guarantee that no one censorial trial, whether by the lawyers of the married couple Rumpold, can and will succeed from the head of the Austrian People's Party, in this house and in this Causa Eurofighter. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Then he is sentenced again!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] Now Vice Chancellor Molterer comes and says: Yes, please, ask me more specific questions. Ask me further questions, then we will make some line available. – Mr Vice-Chancellor, we don’t play quartet, we don’t play funny line rates by guessing if something could be in this or that line, and if we ask the right question, you say: Okay, you can look into one line or another. [[Abg. Oellinger: Drop the boaterl is that!]] – It is a fundamental right to information. It is about Parliament's right. It is about a right of the Republic of Austria. It is a right of citizens who cannot be reduced by the Minister of this Federal Government. Mr Mag. Molterer, the political question you are now asking, is whether you want to continue or continue the course of your predecessor Wolfgang Schüssel. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] As a newly elected ÖVP-Obmann, you have a political opportunity. You know that in the case of the Causa Eurofighter for the Austrian People's Party is politically lost. You know the evidence of the investigation committee. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You know the protocols and statements of university professors Aicher, Kletecka, Mayer, who have explained quite clearly that everything is actually on the table to allow an immediate withdrawal from the Eurofighter contract. [[Abg. Hornek: What prevents you from resigning?]] They know that the Causa for the party Eurofighter and ÖVP is largely lost. Mr Vice-Chancellor, the question to It is: Are you able and willing to change this course and try together with us and this House to avoid further damage from the Republic of Austria? It's not about small things, it's about €2 billion! We are about to save these €2 billion from the Federal Budget for completely different investments in the future of Austria. We can save € 2 billion for climate change, for education policy, for the financing of basic security, for all that you conjure but cannot finance. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: We don't need safety!]] We have a unique political opportunity, because opportunities and investments in the future need money. Very rarely, a federal government has the chance to secure €2 billion of money, which can be invested quite differently and better, for the Republic by means of a letter to Bavaria. I ask you: Why is the Austrian People's Party not ready to take this opportunity to finally take a turn, finally take into account reality and finally view the exit from the Eurofighter contract as an opportunity? [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You repeat!]] Nevertheless, I come back to the core and the starting theme. The Austrian Parliament has to clarify whether or not the Minister of Finance has committed permanent violations of law and constitution. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Condemned is only the fungus!]] If the Minister of Finance today goes out and explains that the tax secrecy is more than the silence of office, then even his own financial attorney is contrary to him. Mr Mag. Molterer, even that – before you make another legal mistake – I will quote here. The Financial Procuratorship states: The obligation to keep secret – i.e. the tax secret – is based on the obligation of expenditure in Article 20(1). 3 The Federal Constitutional Act of the Federal Republic of Germany............................................................................................................................................................................ The retention of the law in Article 20 para. 3 B-VG considers that the Constitutional Court only authorizes the simple legislator to be restrictions, but not to extend the obligation of confidentiality. In accordance with the constitutional interpretation of § 48a of the Federal Tax Code, circumstances which are not subject to official confidentiality are not subject to the obligation to issue confidentiality obligations. - Quote. If you try – and I know that this is your last legal attempt to state the last legal angle you intend to publicly today – that tax secrecy is more than the silence of office, then contradict You here not only the Constitutional Court, not only the current jurisdiction, but also the lawyers of your own home. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The ruling teaching of university professors! They have a different position than you!]] It is true that it is very important for us to protect the personal rights of people whose data and their activities are being examined, but the interest in education by the Republic and in the interests of the Republic of Austria is more difficult than certain very important rights. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's your meat because you're condemned!]] The Austrian National Council as legislator has the task of ensuring that all in this Republic, especially the members of the Federal Government, comply not only with the laws but also with the federal constitution. Mr Mag. Molterer, you have proved in the last days and weeks that you are willing to go beyond the Austrian federal constitution in the interests of your party. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Well, not really! Awesome! That's a sense of what you're saying here!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] – The Austrian People’s Party’s Scream has also not been able to hinder the Enlightenment Committee. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: That's huge!]] I see the increase in volume on the part of the Austrian People's Party as a clear confirmation that we are on the right path with our Enlightenment. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, if your volume in parliamentary debates is the standard for the success of parliamentary control, I assure you that in the next few weeks you will have very often opportunity to get very, very loud. I guarantee you something: It won't help you! We will carry out our education mission, we will put on the table all the facts that are accessible to us. We'll draw our conclusions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] We will make our recommendations. And I hope, as a by-product of our parliamentary activity, that we will also bring a finance minister to comply with the Austrian federal constitution again, as it should be. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12110	Mr Pilz, I have nothing against pointed formulations and debates, but I believe that the accusation of the breach of the Constitution, as well as the intentional breach of the Constitution, has been made in this House. I do not want to lose anything, and therefore I give you a call for order in this regard. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To answer the question, Mr Mag. Molterer to speak. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12151	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You, the members of the National Council, have given the Examining Committee a very clear mandate – an investigative mandate. The Committee of Inquiry shall fulfil this task; no more, but no less. It is therefore quite clear to me that the Investigation Committee has my support within the framework of this mission, but of course also the support of the Federal Ministry of Finance, which I led. [[Call the ÖVP: So it is!]] This Federal Ministry and its employees, ladies and gentlemen, are familiar with the investigation and, to the best of their knowledge and conscience, provide the documents required by the Committee with strict compliance with all the laws. In the first place, I should like to say that quite clearly and clearly, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Federal Ministry of Finance has forwarded to the Committee all the documents requested and covered by the subject-matter of the investigation. [[Call the Greens.]] Mr Pilz, if you politically address your attacks against me, then that is okay, then this is a clear proof of what you intend to do. Not least, I would like to point out that today, for example, the APA does not write that there is a urgent question, but rather a “necessary attack” of the Greens against Molterer. That makes the goal very clear. The APA also writes that you are obviously continuing the campaign against Wilhelm Molterer. - Well, you can do that. But, ladies and gentlemen, in the matter you raise unjust accusations against the officials of my house, and these unjust accusations I reject in every detail and in all clarity, Dr. Pilz! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The employees of my house enjoy my full confidence – and I know in this full confidence to the employees of my home also in full agreement with the State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Finance. Ladies and gentlemen, as well as in support of the Committee of Inquiry, the employees of my home are obliged in this task to the tax secret, which can only be broken in exceptional cases. This is what the citizens of the country, the entrepreneurs, expect and expect, because this is a fundamental civil right, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Respect for this fundamental civil rights is just as important to me as the support given to the work of the Committee of Inquiry. I have actually expected, ladies and gentlemen, that the full attention of all the political groups in this House is being paid to respect for citizens' rights. [[Abg. Oils: Yes!]] I usually hear this from you in a very special way. The provision of documents, Mr Pilz, for the Examining Committee and the protection of the public's tax secret are similar objectives. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: No!]] Whether the tax secret is going to break through, the authority has to judge independently in its work – not you. I would also like to quote your opinion, Mr Pilz, which is very, very clear and strongly supporting this legal version. It is not you, Dr. Pilz, but the requested authority must make these decisions. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Wrong!]] That says, I would like to quote it to you, the financial attorney in a letter addressed to you, and this is also said by Professor Heinz Mayer, who in an opinion, in the publication “Research Committees and the Rule of Law” “... it appears that a duty of all public authorities to submit their files can only be accepted if and to the extent that these files have a content which refers to the competence of the committee which requests their submissions. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Right!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: All decisions make the fungus! Pilz decides everything!]] As far as the competence of the Committee is concerned, the requirement becomes legal and triggers a requirement for submission. A request for file templates that transcends the competence of the committee is absolutely void – in the absence of error calculation – and does not justify the obligation to submit to the investigated authority.’ [[Abg. Oils: Yes!]] ‘The requested authority shall examine whether a committee request is justified or absolutely void. If they conclude that the request of a committee exceeds its competence, whether or not the National Council decision is at least partially invalid because of negligence, whether the Committee leaves its constitutional competence, the request should be rejected. This can also be the case," Mr Pilz said, "that files may only be presented in part." – citations. – I quote only university professor DDr. Heinz Mayer. The Financial Procuratorship, Dr. Pilz, has told you – and here too I quote – that whether and to what extent files are to be submitted to an investigative committee is determined according to the scope of the subject-matter to which the parliamentary inquiry serves. It is defined solely by the decision of the National Council to set up an investigation committee. They may only be submitted to the Examining Committee to the extent that files or document components may be linked to the subject-matter of the investigation announced in the act of establishment. Otherwise, not only in constitutionally guaranteed rights, such as the right to data protection, but also in particular in the right to safeguard the confidentiality of the tax and to violate the official secrecy, would the person who caused the transfer be involved.’ — Quotes; Opinion of the Financial Procuratorship of the Republic of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, as Minister of Finance, I say: Just as the Banking Committee holds the banking secret, so the tax secret must apply in the Eurofighter Committee. As Minister of Finance, I will not allow fundamental rights of citizens to be violated, nor will I allow the Republic of Austria to be penalised by acts which are not legally covered. I comply with the laws of the Republic and the Constitution. I reject anything else as an injunction, Dr. Pilz! [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] How responsibly the laws must be dealt with in the context of an investigation, has today also shown a judgment of the Vienna criminal court. It concerns your work, Mr Pilz. As committee chairman, you were condemned to have violated the laws with the publication of tax documents from the Committee. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Condemned!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: A shame!]] [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: A shame!]] For the sake of order, I add: This decision is not yet valid! That is justifiably said. Interesting: The Court has found that you have fulfilled the record of the violation of the obligation to pay secrecy, as you have published on your homepage documents made available to the Committee confidential for its work, Dr. Pilz. [[New Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Awesome!]] Dear Dr Pilz, the fulfilment of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission obviously requires transparency, of course professionalism and strict compliance with the laws, so as not to become the target of attacks. The Ministry of Finance and its staff meet these conditions as well as the Federal Minister for Finance. I ask you to: Do it too! Follow the laws, Dr. Pilz! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Pilz) Put down the chair!]] Now to answer the individual questions. Questions 1 to 6: On these questions, I would like to state in summary that all the documents requested by my section have been submitted properly and legally. Let me also briefly consider the process of transmission of files to the Committee of Inquiry – this is important! – also present to the public! After receipt of a specific request for evidence on file transmission, my department must forward it to the financial office concerned, taking into account the subject-matter of the investigation and the local competence of this request. The competent financial office shall then decide, with the utmost care, on its own responsibility, which files or parts of the file have a reference to the subject-matter of the investigation. These legal frameworks have been notified to the financial offices by an opinion of the Financial Procuratorship. The relevant parts of the file will then be forwarded to the Examining Committee. I must expressly note that the assessment of whether the tax secret is to be held is not covered by the subject-matter of the investigation, to which each official is responsible. I can therefore see that, while I am responsible for the organisational framework as Deputy Chancellor and Federal Minister for Finance, I am not involved in the concrete file requirements and transfers and therefore I am not involved. But I would like to tell you very clearly, Dr. Pilz and ladies and gentlemen of the House: I fully support the staff in the financial offices and the ministry. And I also reject your accusations for this reason. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Since the submission of documents from the tax documents has been based on the subject matter and on the requests for evidence and on nothing else, it should be assumed that these so-called blackmails, as you refer to, do not affect any of the items of the file whose transmission was legally requested by the investigation committee. Of course, the Committee of Inquiry is free to inform the Federal Ministry of Finance of new evidence by supplementing the application for evidence to date unknown evidence of a connection of parts of the tax instrument with the subject-matter of the investigation. In principle, I would like to say that a tax act does not cover the entire accounting of an audited company. Thus, a tax act cannot contain all the evidence. Questions 7, 8 and 9: Their claims are simply incorrect. In order to clarify the framework conditions for the submission of administrative documents to the Examining Committee, I also entrusted the Financial Procuratorship with a legal opinion. This legal assessment is the basis for the extent to which the tax authorities have to submit file content to the Committee. On the part of the Federal Ministry of Finance, all concrete requests for evidence from the Committee of Inquiry were complied with. The Federal Ministry of Finance has endeavoured itself to make the requests for evidence concrete and has, of its own initiative, approached the Investigation Committee, Dr. Pilz. Question 10: The officials do not have such lists. It is up to the Committee of Inquiry to provide officials with all the information necessary to establish a link to the request for evidence on the subject of the investigation. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: That would be a breach of confidentiality!]] The Federal Ministry of Finance is at any time ready to comply with concrete requests for evidence based on the knowledge of the Committee of Inquiry. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: (showing the bird) That's crazy!]] [[Abg. May. Hakl: order call! He said "crazy!"]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Mr Pilz, I would like to point out that you, at least to the officials of the Federal Ministry of Finance and its leadership – that is, to my person – that we comply with the laws, and I therefore point out – Madam President, I would ask you to examine this – like, for example, officials are crazy, in full clarity. – Dr. Pilz, that's not how you do it! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] Questions 11, 12 and 13: If the competent officials are sufficiently clear of the relationship between the subject-matter of the investigation and the concrete request for evidence or the tax document by the committee of inquiry, then, after examining the tax document, a corresponding information may naturally be provided. Question 14: You assume that I, as Vice Chancellor and Federal Minister of Finance, move within the framework of the laws and set up my actions on the basis of the legal requirements. The Committee of Inquiry has just obtained information from the files you have called censorship, which now determines the political debate. Questions 15 and 16: It should also be noted that in the specific individual case, each official himself has to assess whether there is a legal requirement for a breach of the tax and official secrecy. The said official, having regard to the legal status of the financial procurator, took the view that the consultation by individual members of the committee of inquiry would be possible only if the specific reference to the subject-matter of the investigation was set out by the Committee in the concrete claim for evidence. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: That's wrong!]] Therefore, the proposal by the Chairman of the Committee of Inquiry could not be approached for legal reasons. He has informed my cabinet about this, namely the official, which has taken note of this legal opinion. On the question 17: The same applies to what I have said several times: The requested tax documents will be sent to the Committee in accordance with the subject-matter of the investigation and concrete evidence, as provided for by law. On the question 18: Here the answer is very short, and it reads: Nothing! Questions 19 and 20: As Deputy Chancellor and Federal Minister for Finance, it is a matter of course for me to represent the interests of the Republic of Austria and the interests of the Austrian taxpayer, but of course also to carry out the constitutional mandate to safeguard the Austrian airspace. We have also maintained this in the Government Convention, and in this agreement we have also stated once again that the Republic of Austria, of course, stands by the Treaties it has concluded. In conclusion, Mr Pilz: I comply with the laws, I comply with the Constitution, because for me there is a single scale, and that is the rule of law of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12529	I am going to have the Stenographical Protocol come to me in relation to an intervening call, because I have heard other things than what was called here to have clarity, and then I am on top of it. We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Before the first speaker comes up, there are two actual corrections. Mr Oellinger. — (NL) Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. – Mr President, you know the provisions of the Rules of Procedure: 2 minutes of speaking time; first of all, the corrective situation, then the corrected one. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12563	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vice-Chancellor, in your reply to the question, you claimed that MP Pilz had intervened that officials were crazy. [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: That's what I heard!]] – That’s wrong! In his interlocutory call, Member Pilz said: That's crazy!, and has specifically referred his interlocutory call to your legal opinion, according to which the investigative committee has to report to your ministry. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] And that really is not possible because the Investigation Committee is confidential.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12628	Mr Oellinger, this has not been an actual correction. The clarification of the call will be made if I have the Stenographical Protocol. Complaints and pretenses such as “crazy ” should not be used in this house. The next item is the actual correction by Mr Dr Jarolim. Speech time: 2 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you know the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12671	Mr Molterer Reference to a publication by Professor Mayer mentioned earlier that, according to Professor Mayer, a deterioration of the data from the tax act would be legitimate. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Yes! Right!]] I'm actually correcting: Mr. Professor Mayer - and therefore Mrs. Fekter's information is wrong - has pointed out expressly at the last meeting of the Committee that this is not the case in the present case, and I have spoken literally - I may quote from the minutes... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's not true!]] [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] May I please...
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12719	Mr Jarolim, this is not an actual correction, because it is not a question of two quotations being compared here. Mr President, I am sorry! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: (standing at the government bank towards President Mag. Prammer) It is about the question of the authenticity of a quote!]] Yes, but that's not an actual correction! [[Call the ÖVP – towards the Abg. Dr. Jarolim, who is still with the government bank and with Vice Chancellor Mag. Molterer speaks –:Reset]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: (also in the direction of Abg. Dr. Jarolim) You as a lawyer don't know each other at all!]] The first to speak is Mr. Klubobmann, Dr. Van der Bellen. 10 minutes speaking time. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12821	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! That was a very original question by Mr Vice-Chancellor, namely literally not to answer a single question. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: You didn't watch that!]] If that's the style! But this is in line with the style of the Ministry of Finance – apparently the new style, I must say – to respond to requests from the Committee of Inquiry. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, how do you imagine this: There is an investigative committee which has a specific investigative mandate, and this investigative committee has the constitutional right to request files from offices and authorities. [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: Exactly!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But not...!]] But They say: Yes, he has this right, but what is being transmitted, to what extent, to what detail, we still decide, namely the Ministry of Finance!Unknown term type: "%s".? How do you imagine that control can work in such circumstances: The audited authority has the right – in your opinion, Mrs Fekter, among other things, to decide which documents you are legally aware of; even the Ministry of Finance could belong to it, you do not know what payments have been made – to decide for yourself which documents are produced and which are not!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Article 53!]] [[New call of the abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Mrs Fekter, you must have misunderstanded Heinz Mayer! Mr. Vice-Chancellor Molterer, I think you can certainly blame Heinz Mayer for a lot of things, as many of us have, but he has not fallen on his head. Heinz Mayer clearly says: There is a power of the Authority within the framework of this request for information, namely to examine whether the application for follow-up of the files is made under the subject-matter of the investigation. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's right!]] That's right! So if, for example – I'm imagining now – we say that the Banking Supervision Committee would come up with the idea of demanding the act of Steininger, then one would probably say: At the moment, in connection with the Committee of Inquiry on Financial Market Supervision and the banks, this is probably not the case! – With this, the authority’s authority’s authorisation also ends. Everything else would mean that the authority which has information obligations may decide for itself what the investigation committee has to examine and what it cannot examine. Read Heinz Mayer! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Read number 4 before!]] Look, if you do not already understand the general remarks, then at least look at the specific case of Steininger. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Read number 4 before!]] The majority of advertising costs, Mr Steininger's advertising expenses, have been unmistakable. This procedure is unacceptable! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Read number 4 before!]] Do you understand German, Mrs Fekter? Four words: “This procedure is inadmissible!” [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Calls of outrage at the ÖVP.]] ‘Inadmissible’ means another term for illegal, for ‘non-lawful’. These are the words used by Professor Bernd-Christian Funk in his final sentence. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Point 4 relativizes that! Don't say anything about that.]] A final sentence will also be understood, Mrs Fekter. I quote from his five-page opinion: ‘As indicated in the above considerations, the procedure of financial management (submission of tax documents with unmistakable parts of the text) is not legal in the specific situation.’ What do you call that now? – You have been so evocative about intervening with all kinds of calls, starting from the Clubobmann Schüssel to the colleague Fekter, that this is constitutional and the classification of Mr Pilz as an intentional breach of the Constitution is unheard of. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Right!]] All right, let's call it different. What do you think of now? Do you fall at the word “willful ” or do you find yourself at the word“ breach of constitution ” or at both? [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: On both!]] And what do you call it if the Constitution is not respected? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Was observed!]] Then don’t call it “rupture. ” In our opinion, and in the opinion of the most recognized constitutional judges in this country, this procedure of the Ministry of Finance, according to some, but at least its own criteria, is not to be blackened, to be blackened, to be blackened, that is to say, to abstain from information from the investigative committee. To be honest, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, that is what you are dealing with. At some point, we wonder what the Federal Chancellor has to say about this procedure. This is not a debate with the Green Group, which is being held here, about the fundamental rights of Parliament, whether we can respect our control rights here or not. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: The fungus has not heard of it! Otherwise, he wouldn't have been condemned!]] So far, I have no idea that the Federal Chancellor has said something in this form. That's not just a legal question. But I have to say to that: The house mind, ladies and gentlemen, says nothing but what our most recognized constitutional judges say. The house mind tells you that there is a committee of inquiry commissioned by Parliament, which has to examine of all kinds of information on the basis of file templates. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: The mushroom may break the confidentiality?! He has no right to break the confidentiality!]] How should he examine if the examiners would have the right... And since I mean the Minister of Finance now, I expressly do not take the officials of the Ministry of Finance into a vision, that is totally ridiculous. As Vice-President and Minister of Finance, the officials may not decide what can or may not be issued on files. The next thing is that the Ministry of Defence is going to do the same. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Say something to break your confidentiality!]] The Committee of Inquiry calls for files from the Ministry of Defence, the Minister of Defence gives the files – and blacks the side by side. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He doesn't come here either!]] In the banking committee the same. Mr Graf has just shown me files that look the same. That is what you call constitutional implementation of an investigational order by Parliament? – Mr. Klubobmann's bowl, with his shoulders, can't you do anything? [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You can't determine that, Professor!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Don't be so extravagant!]] Mr Schüssel, there are, in fact, certain things, including in a tax act, the word “citizen’s rights” and the like, which does not concern the committee of inquiry. [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: Exactly!]] That's it, colleague Fekter! Yeah, but what? – Certainly not the operating expenditure of a person who is in the context of the Eurofighter purchase is in the urgent suspicion of having – let us say so – involved in things that have not been done with right things. The operating expenditure is in principle relevant. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Sure! Service data are blackened!]] If there is a “exceptional burden” § 34 Income Tax Act, difficult tooth repair, has cost tens of thousands of euros, it is claimed under Income Tax Law – this is none of the matter to the Examining Committee. He will not be madly interested in this, even if one might have the presumption that it comes from the gnawing of teeth within the framework of this praise-byism activity. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: “Very funny”!]] I have to say, Mr Molterer, the impression that you are giving up here, it is the arbitrariness of the... – Minister of Finance Molterer, Mr Vice-Chancellor, Mr Partyobmann of the ÖVP! [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: Not the arbitrary!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: Rule of law!]] Do you really want to make me know as an average gifted person that anyone in the Ministry of Finance, anyone from home knows when he sees booking line XY, number anyway, amount that and that, and there is any name, that is the company Meier GesmbH, the company Hinterpoldler GesmbH, the company is something – there is usually not “Wolf”, there is not “Cap” or “Van der Bellen”. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Sure! Because he knows... the account!]] These names would be known by the official or would have to know her. At best he knows in retrospect from the paper what the investigation committee has already revealed, but not in advance! That contradicts every experience in life. Every official must be overwhelmed if he is asked, is commissioned by the Minister, I suppose, by the head of the section – by whom else? – to perform blackness. And that's where I say, after his arbitrariness. That can't be! The responsibility for such information, to keep them secret, to make them public, to make them public in part, lies with an institution alone, and it bears full responsibility – and a high level of responsibility – and that is the Committee of Inquiry. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No, according to the Constitution...!]] [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: Criminal law... condemned!]] And there has been no criminal punishment. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Firstly, this judgment is not a legal one against which we are, of course, called. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Hope dies at the last!]] Secondly, it is not a criminal judgment, but a media judgment that happens... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Because he does this under the cover of immunity, Professor!]] – Please nice, for formal reasons: Mr Pilz has put things on his homepage, which may not be literally included in the Minutes. That's how the court ruled. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Let him step back!]] In the future, we will just put this in word. Who's served with it? The company Rumpold? Are you really putting yourself in the...? Do you make the back cover of Rumpold? You, the ÖVP? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I also expect an opinion from the SPÖ. Are you joining us?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: If fungus has a spark, he should step back!]] I have now forgotten the motion for a resolution, but my colleague will do so later. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13319	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Cap. Desirable time: 7 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13340	Madam President. High house! I believe that Parliament's control rights are a very real right to protect and to do everything it takes to ensure that Parliament can do the same. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and the Greens as well as with the detonative accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] I am a little disturbed – you are exactly the right person with the call for an interim call – as with these control rights and how these investigation committees are dealt with. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: We too!]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: From the fungus!]] Mrs Fekter, you have great responsibility there. If you are in favour of a strategy that could look in the final effect so that you simply make this work bad for the committee of inquiry that you are trying to scandalize that you are trying to act here as if a committee of inquiry were something that should not be possible – we are not on this side. [[New call for tender Dr. Fekter]] I would like to tell you this clearly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] Look, it's not the first time there's a committee of inquiry in Parliament. It is also not the first time that there are committees of inquiry in a large coalition in which one has, as it were, contact points and that, in the end, the control work is carried out here. – This is something very important once. I also have the impression that this strategy is being driven because there are individuals – and Mrs Fekter seems to be part of it – who do not even want us to get into a constructive phase in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, so that examination committees can be used as minority law. This strategy seems to be there. That is why we are dealing with this committee of inquiry. Unfortunately, it is! I would like to mention another point, which is now referring to the matter itself. Procedural attorney Strasser says in the “Kurier”, it could not be the solution to simply push through parts of the files... In addition to this, Strasser – literally quoted –: ‘This is like lead at the foot of the committee.’ If I remember correctly, it's your lawyer. And if I remember correctly, this is not someone, but someone who has a very important task to do in the functioning of this committee. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: This is the committee's attorney! Vote unanimously!]] And what he adds in the “curier” is he pleads for the ministry to explain in the future why certain passages are not passed on to the committee. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: This is your lawyer!]] This is an interesting thought, because I am now reminding myself of the speech by the clubman Van der Bellen, who has sometimes addressed the differences where one says there can be blackened. I am not interested if someone has just financed his third teeth, but what interests me is at least those operating expenses that you mentioned earlier. There is already the question to ask – when blackened here and when it is piled –: Why was it blackened, Minister of Finance? – I think that is a question that is quite legitimate to be brought here once. I am not saying that you should say this, but it would be a possibility, for example, for the lawyer to come to your ministry with or without the chairman of the investigation committee, and that he has insight into the unblackened files. Why shouldn't that be possible? I believe that this, please, would facilitate and improve the task of all, including you as Minister of Finance, but also that of the Committee of Inquiry. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think that is an important point that is facing an answer. Please, Mr Finanzminister, just tell us, yes, you are willing to make this possible, or not. But then you also say: Why not?- Oh, my God! – This question is legitimate and should be clarified in this context. The proof that the texts and formulations, if requested by the files, should be in conformity with the law – no, we do not need to discuss them extra. That's clear. But what seems important to me in this context, also in what we have repeatedly put in the centre of our discussions, is not only the question of the blacks themselves – this is from the opinion of DDr. Heinz Mayer, who has been quoted several times today, is probably very clear. Dr. Heinz Mayer says – I quote: “As a result, this means that the tax document ‘Steininger’ must be presented to the Committee in full and without any unmistakable statements.” – Also for you, Mrs Fekter, Mrs. Fekter, once again: [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Read paragraph 4!]] Dr. Mayer says: ‘As a result, this means that the tax document ‘Steininger’ must be submitted to the Committee in full and without any notice.’ [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Read paragraph 4!]] “An exception could at all events take place if the tax act contains documents which are obviously not in any context with the subject matter of investigation, as always.” – To that end, we confess. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Exactly!]] What's the problem? - Yes! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter, don't!]] [[Calls and calls between Dr. Fekter and Strache.]] That's a real point of view, and it's where we could all be of one opinion – I'm already like a mediator here. I do not want to know the funding of the third teeth, the cost of it, but I want to know what Klubobmann Van der Bellen referred to as an example. And I think it is also in the interest of the representatives of the EIAs in the Committee of Inquiry to know, is it, Mrs Fekter? Now, let's keep quiet. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] – That would really be at the center of the reflections, and that is exactly what it should be. I therefore ask you to review this, Minister of Finance: this idea of the lawyer of the proceedings, as well as what Heinz Mayer says, who finally defines it precisely. And according to this definition, the representative of the Ministry of Finance will then be asked to check with the lawyer – with or without the chairman of the committee of inquiry – whether this is true in each individual case. I think it would be, then we would not have to meet here in plenary! The whole discussion is primarily in the Committee of Inquiry, but then we do not need to meet here either. [[Abg. Lentic: Yes, eh!]] This is the whole thing, because there is obviously a lack of clarity here. Okay, but you can really fix that, Minister of Finance: A word of yours is sufficient, and I believe that it can be clarified with this procedure. – That is why I believe that this House should also express itself in this direction, and I believe that we should do everything here in order to give the public the impression that this Parliament is trying to carry out the investigation mission to carry out the audit task thoroughly. This is about billions of euros of tax money, this is the biggest acquisition in the Second Republic, since 1945. All that we have warned of, all that we have pointed out, has proved true thanks to the work of the Committee of Inquiry. And so I'm interested in that... [[Abg. Murauer: What turned out to be true?]] – Because it is the biggest waste of tax money since 1945, if you want to know exactly, Mr Murauer! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Give the control bat out of your hand for a moment and discuss it in peace! We're not going to get rid of that! That is our opinion – coalition, coalition – to which we confess, and we will say that again and again.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13560	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Fekter. 9 minutes welcome. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13582	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Cap, if you stand out here and highlight his importance as an instrument and the committee's audit mandate, why did your Minister Darabos not ‘express’ the Koziol opinion, although there was a unanimous decision? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the ÖVP: That's right, right!]] It is undisputed in science and teaching – undisputed!, only Mr Pilz has a different opinion – that the requested authority may transmit only those files which are covered by the test order. In all cases, the Koziol opinion was included, and Darabos did not ‘express’ it. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: But the only absolute...!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Because the blacks are talking about: On the basis of the documents we have, the authority must not pass on these things! They shall also be subject to tax secrecy and data protection in the case of unparticipated third parties who have to be protected and not covered by the inspection order. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: No!]] So, I have a data sheet here, for example, there are the account numbers listed. I have attended the Trade Academy, I can accountancy, I can also read a balance sheet. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Pilz can't do that!]] But this does not seem to be possible, Mr Pilz, and, Professor, I would have expected it from you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Should I study accounting?]] You should have known that after account numbers 600, 620 et cetera until 690, the data of the staff are hidden, namely wages, salaries, expenses for payments, pay-dependent taxes, salary-dependent social contributions, voluntary social contributions, health insurance contributions et cetera. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: The Greens want to look in there!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Schnuffel, sniffle!]] And that's exactly what's blackened! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There must be sniffed!]] And you want to sniff in it: with employee data?- Oh, my God! – I think that's incredible! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Take note that in a tax act under operating expenditure – and employee data are operating expenditure – there can also be things you do not care about, Mr Pilz, which does not concern us where we are not allowed to sniff! That's what the Constitution says, and that's exactly what Mr Mayer – your house and court writer, Professor Mayer – has published. [[Rejoicing and condolences with the ÖVP]] [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Darmann.]] Together with other constitutional lawyers, Professor Mayer has written a publication entitled “Research Committees and the Rule of Law”. [[The speaker holds up a copy of the book mentioned.]] It clearly mentions the ruling teaching opinion that the requested authority – and only these! – to check if it is allowed to “press out” or not. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Control does not exist for you! Control is a strange word, Mrs. Fekter!]] – No, Professor! On the basis of Mr Pilz's conviction alone, it is good that the Constitution provides for this in concrete terms. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Bullshit!]] Mr. Pilz allows himself under the cover of immunity everything and every one, infringing laws according to the series. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Maybe you don't?]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] Officials cannot commit this violation without being subject to official liability and becoming liable for damages. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: It's unbearable!]] This provision therefore protects officials from having to fear any charges of liability or damages. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: nonsense!]] Mr Pilz, under the cover of immunity, allows everything to be done. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: You too!]] If he had a spark, he would put the chair back on the investigation committee. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: The Advocate of Holiness!]] [[Further calls.]] It's a monsterity – it's a monsterity! – that we currently have an investigative committee chairman who is legally condemned for breach of laws relating to the investigative committee – admittedly not legally effective, but if he had a proponent, he would resign. [[Calls and calls between the Greens and the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Yes, “safe”!]] It is a classical inconsistency that he currently has a procedure “at the neck”, which proves that he does not comply with laws. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: You won't prescribe what happens!]] – Professor, at least the Constitution should be respected, and the Constitution states in § 53 that the authority under investigation must examine the files. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Just not!]] - Yes, of course! You have ordered an opinion from Mr Mayer, and in paragraph 4, he says that he remains in favour of the dominant teaching opinion: [[the speaker shall hold up the opinion referred to above]] Mr Mayer does not contradict himself, he remains in it – an exception could be if in tax acts there are data that have nothing to do with the subject-matter of the investigation. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: This is an honorary insult! Repeat this in the public and...! It's cowardice!]] And service data certainly have nothing to do with the subject of the investigation, so they were blackened. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Don't cry like that!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] – Mr Oellinger, you certainly do not know how this is being discussed in the committee of inquiry. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] It is therefore right to consider what has to do with the investigation order, and if it has nothing to do with the investigation order, and if it has nothing to do with the investigation order, they will then weaken it for the protection of non-participative third parties. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Shrew! It's a speciality of her!]] For me, it is terrifying how the Greens are throwing data protection overboard, how they are throwing the rule of law, including the Constitution as a whole, overboard, only to have a populist announcement that they can adapt to the Minister of Finance and Vice-Cancellors. As the professor turns out here and only half-truths spread, that is really the pity for me. [[Abg. Oellinger: Hello!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For Mr. Professor could have read point 4 of the Mayer opinion without further ado, just as Mr. Cap did and thus scratched the curve. But, Mr Cap, you didn't get the curve when Darabos hid us the cociol opinion.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e14001	Mrs Fekter, after Mr Pilz's speech, I said that I have nothing against pointed wording, but something against it if borders are exceeded. So, as I said earlier about the ‘unconstitutional’ call, I now give you a call for order regarding the application of the breach of the rule of law. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is the truth she said!]] The next speaker is Mr Dr. Haimbuchner. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e14061	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, don't get so upset! They would also defend it if the old government had bought a double-deck. To you, Mrs Fekter, I will come to speak later. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As a Member of this House, I am deeply horrified at the actions of the Federal Minister for Finance that such acts are presented to us. [[The speaker keeps files up to date.]] It's a censorship like in Metternich's time. Obviously, you feel comfortable with Metternich. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] The reasons given by the Federal Ministry are: [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Are you a lawyer or not?]] To date, the BMF is not aware of the reasons on which these files are requested, in particular the context in which this requirement is linked to the subject-matter of the investigation. Mr. Federal Minister, do you not have your ministry or your officials under control? Don't your officials read newspapers that they don't know what role the gun lobbyist Steininger played in the Draken succession? My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Steininger is not a modelmaer from Attnang-Puchheim, not a citizen who pays good taxes, but the key figure in the Causa Eurofighter! [[Abg. Murauer: Go!]] Mr Steininger went out in the BMLV and entered. He knew the most important persons; You're probably all of them, too. Mr. Steininger is the witness of the then commander of the Air Force, the current Air-Chief Wolf. Mr. Steininger has done Mrs. Wolf the favor of handing over €87,600 to save her company from bankruptcy! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the tax act of Mr Steininger is not a tax act, it is the act of that man who has refused the statement in the committee, who still threatens to be punished for months in front of the investigation committee in Thailand! The control act of this key character and Air-Chief Wolf will be abstained from the Committee! [[Abg. Kainz: Don't cry like that!]] Mr Federal Minister, look at these files, look at them! [[The speaker keeps files up to date.]] What is a committee of inquiry to investigate?- Oh, my God! Maybe with what edding stick this has been blackened? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kainz: Don't cry like that!]] That is what I am telling you, Minister of State: As a Member of Parliament, as a representative of the Sovereign here in this House, I feel deeply guided! I feel I'm cheating, I'm telling you quite openly and honestly. And: The argument of the BMF is hypocritical and not legally comprehensible! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] There have been no weaknesses in the Rumpold tax act, Mrs Fekter. Yeah, wasn't that related to the subject of the investigation? Why didn't you make any blacks? Perhaps because Mr Rumpold used to work for FPÖ many years ago? Is that the reason, ladies and gentlemen? You have not been able to explain this procedure, Mr Federal Minister. It would be difficult for me and the people, in particular, to know which names are hidden behind these blacks. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] Mr. Federal Minister, are you worried that there are people who could be associated with the ÖVP? Why Refuse You are so determined to inform the Sovereign of these acts? I keep remembering: When it becomes a bit more strenuous at the ÖVP – if so to speak, the necks become louder – I know that I am lying right, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Rumpelstilzchen!]] In this context, however, I must also take the SPÖ into account, because SPÖ State Secretary Matznetter supports this action by Mr Vice-Chancellor. It can't be! Are you not also interested in the fact that we are fully informed of the files in the Committee of Inquiry? The fact is that the Committee is very, very close to the core of the matter. The weapons lobbyist Steininger is the keyman in this causa – and the ÖVP now becomes very, very nervous. Mr Vice-Chancellor, also: If you quote Mr. Universitätsprofessor Dr. Heinz Mayer and base your argumentation on it, you should carefully read through the new letter by Professor Dr. Heinz Mayer. Because here it is clear: ‘With the exception of such cases, there is no authority power to refuse the submission of documents. This applies in particular to operating expenditure incurred by Mr Steininger during the period in question, which must be presented to the Committee without delay.” – Emphasis on complete, honourable ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kainz: (pointing to the visitor gallery) They go away!]] Mrs Fekter, if you quote the Constitution – Article 53 B-VG – please quote it correctly! There it says: ‘The courts and all other authorities shall be obliged to comply with the request for evidence from these committees; all public authorities shall submit their files upon request.’ This is not a wish for the Christkind, ladies and gentlemen, but it is a commitment! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kainz: The Sovereign!]] On the one hand, one refuses the transmission of usable and coherent tax records and on the other hand one takes the legal opinion of Eurofighter GmbH that Steininger was only an EADS man. So it was very striking when last Friday the ÖVP wanted to clean up Eurofighter GmbH in the committee and on the same day Mr. Aloysius Rauen gave a press conference, by the way organized by Mrs. Keglevich, who also worked in connection with the procurement. And there you have already formulated this withdrawal line. Is the clear connection between Steininger and Eurofighter GmbH in the blackened parts of the Steininger-Act? Why is the Rumpold tax act uncensored transmitted? Does the ÖVP have anything to hide? And then, please: What does the ÖVP have to hide? – That would interest us. And I would also like to give you a little legal aid, because obviously you do not know the article 148b of the Federal Constitution – I quote –: "All the institutions of the federal, state and local authorities shall assist the public prosecutors in providing their tasks, providing them with information on the file and providing the necessary information upon request. Official silence does not exist with respect to the public prosecutor’s office. We have all learned once – Mrs Fekter, you have studied Jus – what the public prosecutorship is. The People's Procuratorate is an auxiliary body of the National Council. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: We are not at the People's Procuratorate!]] That means that the National Council's auxiliary body may take note of the file, but the National Council itself, the Members may not!? - That's cockbucks! Don't be angry with me, maybe you'd get an order call from a university professor at the university. Now I'll tell you something. If you quote Mr. Universitätsprofessor Mayer, then quote him correctly, not with outdated literature, because we have also learned this at the university: You should always quote the current literature. Otherwise, it's like we know: Not enough, sit down! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, we will certainly not be prevented from reviewing this procurement process in detail, ladies and gentlemen, for we are committed to this, to our people, to our homeland and to our citizens, in the sense of transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e14304	Next, Mr Scheibner. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e14325	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, full information is necessary, and the investigation committee should be informed. Mr Oellinger! The Committee of Inquiry is to be informed that a process is to be examined, but not predetermined accusations are to be upgraded and tried to find a firm confirmation of this! Ladies and gentlemen, I think the most important thing is: If it is necessary to inform you, the representatives of the Republic of Austria, and also the members of the Committee of Inquiry, you will not be able to disable citizens and human rights – to whoever else! You shouldn't ignore that! [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Mr Kogler, how many times have we been discussing here in the House, when it came to this, even right-wing................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's how you stop!]] No, I don't stop! I remember very well! We discussed when it came to grid arrests, veils or phone surveillance against criminals and the noise attack. There were the first Greens here who said that human rights should not be disregarded, that citizenship rights are important and should not be disregarded, and that the security interests of citizens should not be placed on the individual interests of human rights of such suspects and criminals. – These were your words here in the House! Obviously, the rights of every drug dealer are more important to you than the rights of an undisputed information person in an investigation committee! This should also be clarified here. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's what it's all about. Of course, if illegal action has been done, it must be clarified. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Mr Colleague! Who else cashed?]] Mr President, if there have been criminal acts, there is an authority in a rule of law to judge this and to judge it accordingly: That's not you, it's not us here, and that's not the investigation committee, but these are the courts of the Republic of Austria! They alone have to decide on the guilt and non-debt of citizens and people in this country, and nobody else! [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Open your party donations!]] Mr Kogler, I say quite frankly to you: There are confidentiality provisions for the protection of these unspoiled citizens. Of course, the Examining Committee may request such documents, but under the bid of confidentiality, Mr Haimbuchner! And because the rule of law probably does not give too much confidence to the confidentiality of politicians and MEPs, one has recognized the need to create, for example, the People's Procuratorate or the Court of Auditors as Parliament's bodies. In this way it is possible to grant these institutions and not every individual Member of Parliament the right to have full access to the file. The creation of these institutions must also have had a legal basis. Their comparisons are therefore a little far-reaching! The confidentiality, Mr President, which is needed to protect the privacy and business interests of unspoiled citizens, is completely disabled! Obviously, it is assumed as a matter of course that requested files are already in the newspapers a few hours after their arrival! . I am now looking strictly towards my colleague Herb. Journalists also say that now everything comes from these files to the journalists. Madam President. I don't quite understand why you can get an order when you quote decisions from courts here. – I'm reading this from the APA so I don't get an order call too: ‘Pilz injured ‘Secretary duty to pay’’. The “Vienna Criminal Land Court” says: ‘The publication of invoices from the tax act was unlawful’. – I think you can quote that very well! Mr Van der Bellen, it is true: That's just a question of media law. But now we're going to criminal law. You know § 310 Criminal Code: ‘Infringement of official secrecy’. This is about the fact that, when an official or former official uses confidential information or reveals secrets or secrets, he has a term of imprisonment of up to three years – up to three years! – to be punished. Mr Van der Bellen, there's an Abs. 2: ‘In addition, it is necessary to punish who, as a member of a committee, is a member of a committee in accordance with the rules of procedure. 53 B-VG’ – this is the investigation committee –... [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: There are different rules for a committee of inquiry, you know that, Mr Scheibner!]] I know. – I repeat Abs. 2: ‘In addition, it is necessary to punish who, as a member of a committee, is a member of a committee in accordance with the rules of procedure. 53 B-VG... or as a person present in those ‘legislators’ shall reveal or exploit a secret made available to them in a confidential session, whose disclosure or exploitation is appropriate to infringe a public or a legitimate private interest.’ Now it's a court that says secrets have been violated. § 310 Criminal Code, Mr. Van der Bellen, is relevant here! For what happens here on a regular basis and what you seem to be not at all interested in the fact that private data is being published, a term of imprisonment of up to three years is foreseen. And what happens if the Chairman of the Committee of the Pilz can still be photographed in the paper with the tax bill? [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: It's all blackened anyway!]] No matter if blackened or not! You see, not everything is blackened! Is it not a matter of passing on confidential information? And is this just about this one side? Ladies and gentlemen, this is what we are talking about: Unfortunately, there is a political justice in Austria, but not a justice that judges politically. Justice judges correctly. However, there are politicians in this country who are preoccupied with judicial tasks, and these are primarily you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, but also of Social Democracy! [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] When it comes to your affairs, it's not that tragic. If Mr Darabos, who is an administrative body and is obliged to issue all the documents to the committee, does not issue an opinion which seems to be inappropriate to him, then that is no problem at all. This is a matter of course because you will not weaken your negotiating positions! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Why doesn't he give it out in a confidential session? This opinion will probably not be issued by any of your Members in violation of the obligation of secrecy. Or do you have no confidence in that? Why gives Minister Darabos does not give this opinion to the Examining Committee if you are in favour of comprehensive information? I don't understand! Tell me! That's what it's like. You didn't actually say! I'm really excited about what you're saying! So the Minister does not need to give out such a thing. But when it comes to data from private people, it is agitated and pressure is exerted, and it is blamed. On occasion, you should consider whether you are always working with the same bar! I say it again: If there are clear accusations that there have been criminally relevant offences in this context, then there should be a report to the judicial system immediately. This is the task of the Committee of Inquiry. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: You have to research that first!]] That's right, Mr Van der Bellen. But as long as the allegations are not confirmed, all the persons and persons concerned have all human rights and citizenship rights as you do, as I and all of us here. These rights also have to be respected as politicians, even if this may be contrary to your political goals! That's why: A committee of inquiry and Party-Political Action shall not put the rule of law out of force. Investigation yes, Enlightenment yes, but let's leave the Inquisition in the history books!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e14484	Next, Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Requested time: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e14506	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, we need a certain amount of time to settle the displeasure that has been spread out here. It will not be possible to devote everything to it, but I will start with the basic principle. Mr Scheibner, Mrs Fekter, in particular, I say to you, after listening to some speakers from the former government parties, namely from Black-Orange, who are obviously in the fight for defence for good – or, in parentheses: bad – reasons desperate: There is no human right for finance ministers to blacken files, especially if there is massive suspicion of bribery. – Is this so far understandable? There is a massive suspicion that there has been an inadmissible use of money here. And now this is not the accusation as such, but it is about the fact that this House is here by a majority – you should remember it too! – has decided an order to us. It should not be claimed that it was the case, but this case was explicitly entrusted with an order for proof, which is based on a request made here to carry out these payments. It's nothing else. I mean, it's really primitive fog-throwing around here with human rights! That's really an absurd process, and it's a pity for every log line you use with it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Such a similar thing will happen in the Committee even if the ÖVP there – by the way – participates very well in it. But it won't be useful. The only thing we learn is that the sham is obviously a new party sign of the ÖVP, and unfortunately you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, have been justifiable with this suspicion and with your reply today. [[Abg. Morak: Mr Kogler, what do we do with the Koziol opinion now? Is there an answer or not?]] Don't worry, we'll come to the Koziol report. We need to make a few more clarifications. You're right! First of all, however, we are still talking about another clarification: We consider it not only inadmissible, but totally infamble, that here Professor Mayer is judged by anyone as a house and a farm owner. That's under any criticism! At least it should also be noted that at least once it is contradicted here – that is the most harmless term I believe to be. By the way, it would be much more useful if we were to maintain the unwise practice of calling for order, not necessarily to extract it when it comes to ourselves, but, logically, only when it comes to non-participants or those who cannot defend themselves here. That would be orderly. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to thank you once again for the interlocutory call for advice on the Koziol report I am now addressing before we turn to the Minister of State and his reply to the question. The Committee unanimously requested the issue of the opinions or partial opinions. The Committee's opinion is quite clear: These are documents prepared in the course of the federal execution. Don't be childish. Mr Darabos has not ordered a night-cushion reading because he can't get enough from this issue! He did not ask for this opinion as a private person in order to somehow delect from it, but, as we hope, to evaluate this procurement process in such a way that it can strengthen a political attitude. In any case, we still hope for this political attitude of yours! In concrete terms, however, it is about the fact that, of course, it is completely undisputed, at least from my point of view, that Parliament must be completely undisputed that these documents are to be transmitted. A private minister will not invent you either! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Missethon.]] We come to the real thing now: After all, there is a urgent question that Mr Vice-Chancellor has “answered” – under quotation marks – and I would like to return to Mayer in one point: I do not know where Mrs. Fekter – now she is fleeing – takes the Courage to appeal to Mayer, for he writes – although it has already been quoted, but one simply has to say it again – in point 3, exactly as measured by the facts presented and transmitted to him: ‘This procedure is inadmissible.’ If you're always on Abs. 4 but it is only necessary to add that this is a matter of any expenditure which the Committee does not necessarily need to know about, the most private matters such as diseases, and which can, at least as a special issue, be taxed. He has brought this example, and we are happy to bring it here again. I understand colleagues Van der Bellen, that he initially did not mention this, because one cannot believe that there are ÖVP delegates who still pretend to be friends of illiteracy, always when it suits them. Now, however, it is obviously necessary to call on reading exercises here, so that this is also contained in the protocol. Next point: Mr Vice-Chancellor, in that act on which this is about, it is not about the most private details. You can see this from your paper that you and your employees have received today, and all the more unforgivable is your reply! It is even in the reasoning of our request that these files – and this must be broken down on the tongue – are not about the most private details, Mrs Fekter, but, for example, about account numbers that are blackened, but about which we could conclude from other contexts that they are fees for the “creative promotion”. – You don't think so? If this blackness conceals that it is payments into the sphere of all the parties directly involved, you still have the “Courage” here – under quotation marks – and to say: That's all right and just. – I say: That can't be! Now I come to your reply, which has duly said so, Mr Vice-Chancellor, that it is then assumed that it was properly transmitted when blackened. - It can't be! You cannot, however, because you have such broad confidence in your officials, which derives from the logic that something, because it is blackened, is obviously not a subject of investigation. And here we are at the very heart of the problem: The Committee itself must at least have a say in what is now part of the subject-matter of the investigation or not, otherwise the whole U-committee procedure will be ad absurdum. If you're a little honest, you have to be able to understand that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It's gotten a little quiet right now, but I'd like to invite you to answer that! We would be pleased to take another word from you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, to answer this question, because we have not heard from you yet! You haven't said anything about you or your officials – we still come to your responsibility! – the fact that passages have been blackened, which clearly lead to the sphere of the subject-matter of the investigation, directly at the heart of the current surveys. This applies, for example, in the case that the “creative promotion” is recorded in the tax act and has simply been blackened about it. If you still want to maintain your claims in this regard, I know what I want to congratulate you on: To a sincere attitude probably not anymore! But they like to sell themselves as a sincere one. Then take, please nice, now a start to live up to this picture! In my opinion, it simply does not matter how you behave here and just sail off by pretending right from the beginning as if the officials of the ministry had done something that you have nothing to do with. If you are informed of what happened in this blackout care, you cannot call upon the only officials to do so. Rather, you yourself must specify the line here and ensure maximum transparency, as did you and your predecessors, even on the defence ministers' side, who have always claimed! It is still cruel to you that everything is clean, everything is correct and everything is transparent with what we have promoted up to now. This is the subject of the entire committee of inquiry, and it fits in the picture how you behave here: You must have something to hide, because otherwise it may not be that you are holding such a boycott, swirling and threatened intrusion action here, as well as in the Banking Committee! It is quite easy and fits into the picture: For years now, you have been trying, where you can, by your majority, to hinder Parliament from these clarifications, even in the Court of Auditors: All the questions were on the table, and everything was turned off. [[Abg. Brosz puts a paper on the speaker's desk.]] Thank you very much, Mr Brosz, but we agreed that the request should be submitted to the following speaker or speaker. Now that the majority has at least temporarily enabled something, you are doing nothing but consistently continuing your party policy line. But one thing is not possible, Mr. Vice-Chancellor: That you misuse the Office of the Minister of Finance to prevent Parliament from informing! You can't, and that's what you're doing, and that's what you've said in your answer. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Since you, Mr. Vice-Chancellor Molterer, are now head of the party, you should rather turn to other things: to ensure the voluntary disclosure of the party funds and to contribute to this becoming a standard of law here. We invite everyone to do this again and again. Something smells like this procurement, which was clear from the very beginning, and if Wolf and the lobbyist Steiniger are the closest friends and have played the most important role directly in the commission, then even the tired ones would have to get minted. But you don't want to. She's the one who's got it. She's the one who's got it.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e14578	Your speaking time is over. [[I would like to congratulate the Greens for the Abg, which leaves the speaker's desk. May. Kogler.]] The next item is the report by Mr Herz, Member of Parliament. 7 minutes welcome. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e14618	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make it a little more calm than Mrs Fekter and remind her of the quiet time. The ÖVP actually wanted to end the investigation committee by Christmas, and then everyone with colleague Missethon wanted to reach out to each other and sing under the light tree: Four times the Court of Auditors has examined – everything is fine! And after New Year's Eve, a clean, correct and transparent year should begin 2007. But it didn't play, and it looks like this right now, ladies and gentlemen. – The public rightly suspects dirt under this blackmail, and this will be clarified. That is quite clear and clear. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's very interesting: Dr. Schüssel did. In the Committee of Inquiry on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on 3 February the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States “My interest as Federal Chancellor and Head of Government was that we finally bring together that a procurement is carried out transparently and objectively – with good counter-actions! And that is, I think, first-class success in this case.” So, a little later, that sounds different. A few days ago, on 20.4.2007, it says: ‘ÖVP-Klubobmann Wolfgang Schüssel is for the ‘remainless information’ of the proceedings concerning the Eurofighter contract.’ We are delighted about this support. I would have hoped that perhaps Mr. Dr. Schüssel would have taken the floor himself, but after all: [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: We too!]] This is a support, and I hope that Dr. Schüssel will influence the Minister of Finance in terms of “relentless information”. Mr Missethon! Not only the Clubobmann and the Minister of Finance have a responsibility, but also the Minister of the Interior. You have to say that. When he was still Minister of Defense – 3rd. Janen –, Günther PlatterThe following said: "I am completely incomprehensible why Members of the Herbs make allegations that have been repeatedly rejected." That's a het campaign. And then we're going to go on: “I am unmistakably completely behind Major General Erich Wolf and reject the allegations against him. Wolf enjoys my full confidence.” Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! It would really be time for the Minister of the Interior to make a clear statement. We'll be on the 7th. May have an opportunity to listen to this, and we will also talk about the licences. – Platter has acted correctly, properly and in time and done his job: This is, of course, a white clumsy. The fact is – and this is not blackened – that 12 months before delivery of the first aircraft the licenses should have been here. [[Abg. Eßl: What about the caster? What consultant did Gusenbauer have?]] But I also appeal to the Minister for Economic Affairs Martin Bartenstein. He also has a responsibility, who also attended the ominous breakfast. We'll talk to him about the counter-businesses. [[Abg. Strache: Let's see the lists! Finally, make the lists transparent! The lists of counter-actions!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] The parade business with FACC, where EADS has already said since the beginning, has already been done forty days before the deadline, is now also broken, for none other than the co-owner... [[Call the ÖVP:... Androsch!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes, really, but how often he has intervened, we don't want to know!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Do you know how often he intervened?]] But excuse me, gentlemen, Hannes Androsch is the co-owner of the aircraft supplier FACC, and who should know except him? And he says that the counter-businesses with FACC have only been added to the pool. Androsch: "We have not agreed on counter-businesses. These were normal bilateral transactions." [[Abg. Scheibner: Ask Mr. Androsch in a sense of truth!]] And now it comes, because now the question arises: What did Peter Ott GmbH actually do? What has Mrs Keglevich actually done if not even the FACC business is a counter-business? What did Klaus-Dieter Bergner do? – That is why we have, of course, requested these files, because we want to know, and now, of course, we hope that they are not blackened by the Ministry of Finance. That is, I think, logical, clear and simple. For Mrs. Fekter, I would only have – she has now fled – a single but not unimportant thing: [[Abg. Lentsch: Certainly not before you!]] She publicly contests – at meetings wherever she can only – that Mr Steininger took part in contract negotiations for Eurofighter. So far, it is totally unimpressed that there is a document, where Eurofighter is nominated and written to the Republic: At the Treaty negotiations on Tuesday, 30. In addition, the following shall take part: Mr Steininger, Mr Plattner and Mr Aldag. - Quote. Mrs Fekter, of course, knows that Mr Steininger has clearly been nominated as a contractual negotiator here. But what she might not know – or don't want to know, perhaps you should bring it to her, colleague Missethon: ==References== ==References== The meeting of the Committee of Inquiry is held on page 148 of the Protocol: Mr. Stadler asked Mr. Edwin Wall, the chief negotiator of the Republic of Austria: “Have you had contacts with Mr Erhard P. Steininger away from the negotiations or in the negotiations?” And Mr Mag. Edwin Wall answers: ‘In the negotiations.’ I think it is clearer than the chief negotiator of the Republic of Austria confirms that Mr Steininger has negotiated, and that will still have great relevance! Since Mr Scheibner was so on the show today, I would like to read to him the following: He said there in the “Small Newspaper”, Steininger had only come into play after the type decision as a representative of EADS. So, Mr Scheibner, you will probably know the agreement of Steininger and Rumpold – the couple who are friends with you – of 27.3.2002! If you claim in a newspaper that Steininger later added: There's the evidence! [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] And because Mr. Westenthaler also calls for something to be said: In the “Wiener Zeitung” of 31.5.2006 you say in an interview, of course you would have made mistakes. – That’s in 2006! What you are currently living on is asked by the “Wiener Zeitung. ” Westenthaler: “I’m going to be socially insured, too small a relationship. This will run through the advertising agency Rumpolds.” [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's wrong!]] [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] So if the Rumpolds to you, Mr Westenthaler, were as generous as themselves, then we need not worry about you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e14803	Next, Mr Magistrate. Ikrath to speak. Desirable time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e14824	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Professor Van der Bellen, I am actually seriously disturbed by the form in which you have now baggaged a court judgment here – a court judgment that is so essential because it now proves that in a maximum of confidence that is to be placed in committees has been broken, namely by the committee chairman, colleague Pilz from your party. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The applicant...!]] If you look at the website – and everyone can do that, because it's still there – then, if you're serious about data protection and tax secrecy, you realize with great horror that there are invoices one too one that can be comprehensible to anyone, invoices that concern third parties who have nothing to do with the procedure, Mr. Professor. Van der Bellen! [[Abg. May. Kogler: You have been discussed in the Committee!]] That means that you are today – which really scares me! – the civil right to the protection of privacy, the right of citizens to the protection of their own personal life in such a way as to be relativized – the right that we have pictured in a banking secret, which, in any case, has constitutional status that we have shown in the fundamental right to data protection, which, in the simple legal transformation, we have designed as a tax secret under § 48a of the Federal Code of Taxation. We have designed this, ladies and gentlemen, also from the Green Group, also from the Liberal Group. We have designed it, and we have a duty to the Austrians to take seriously what we ourselves are legislating here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have the duty, not only because we believe we have to profile ourselves party-politically – like my colleague Pilz, who has been doing this for years and days and is on a personal journey – to throw overboard and trust the Austrians, that we take our own laws seriously, that we respect their privacy, to step with feet, Professor! [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Are you interested in a reconnaissance or not?]] I'll tell you: Your party likes to do that, and the liberals like to do it: We will be opposed with the last consequence. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: “With the last consequence”, what does that mean?]] What made me completely unscrupulous next: You will not find any critical words about the fact that a committee chairman of your party put in shamelessly secret documents on his website and on 19 July. April in the “Time in Picture 2” with such documents waving into the camera! [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: “Shamless ”? He didn't! That's all public, just not in this form!]] I'll tell you: Luckily, since the officials have done their duty and have weakened what third parties would have done in a procedure they have nothing to do with. – This is our duty! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: In any case, the Eurofighter procurement process will not be clarified!]] And I'll tell you something, Professor! – Listening [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: You're totally disinterested in a reconnaissance!]] Please, it can only be useful! [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: You didn't listen to me for a second!]] I'll tell you something. If we – as you did – do not protect the officials who do their duty... [[Abg. Sburny: The Minister is hiding behind the officials!]] It is not true that the official has the right to decide no, he has the duty to decide! [[Calls to the Greens.]] [[Abg. Sburny: The Minister is responsible, not the officials are responsible!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] The executive is bound by the principle of legality and is therefore obliged to do so! [[Abg. Sburny: Is there now a ministerial responsibility or an official responsibility? Excuse me, but that's a nonsense you're saying!]] I would like to say something to you, including your group, that: If we are the banking secret that does not represent a breach of a parliamentary investigation committee, does it? Give You're right about me? [[Abg. Sburny: That's a terrible nonsense you're saying! That's pure shit you're doing!]] The banking secret does not represent a breach of the law. This is regulated by the law, and this has been adequately assessed. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The banking secret...!]] If you then invite employees of financial market supervision and the National Bank in committees to question them and then put them under pressure for hours, always with the intention that those in these committees then break exactly what is our duty to preserve, then that is a scandal! [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: me?]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: I didn't break anything!]] This is an abuse of the Instrument Investigation Committee, and I say to you: We as the ÖVP will face citizens and their legitimate interests of protection. We'll take this seriously. We will back the authorities that they are acting in accordance with the law, and we will make every effort in the committees to ensure that the interests – the legitimate interests of protection! – third persons are also truly preserved. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen:... let it blacken! Blacks, blacks, blacks! You're not here to cover the authorities! You're parliamentarians!]] It is sad that the Greens are obviously throwing this overboard for a bet to beat a little political change. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Who are you lobbying for? Open your conditions! Lobbyist!]] We will not go the way, and no one of you will get us into it for just a moment or even take us away from it.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e15126	Mr Ing. Westenthaler. – Mr Klubobmann, you know the rules. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e15150	Madam President. With reference to a newspaper quote, the SPÖ Herbs Member claimed that I was employed in 2006 by the advertising agency of Mr Gernot Rumpold. – This is the untruth! Just so that it's also in the protocol: Of course, I was not employed by the Rumpold advertising agency. [[Abg. Strache: But you said under quote that you are financed by the company Rumpold!]] I spent three months at Orange Werbagentur GmbH, which has nothing to do with Mr Rumpold's. Please don't claim any untruths here!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e15191	Next, Mr Magistrate. Darmann speaking. 8 minutes welcome. I should like to draw attention to the fact that this is the entire rest of the speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e15212	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Let me say first of all: I will also try to take out some emotion in order to be able to transport material information, which has already been plagued. But I can't afford to say something to Mr Jarolim, who is not present right now: He put Mr. University Professor Dr. Mayer into play and wanted to quote his statement from the minutes at the last meeting of the Committee of Inquiry. But I can say: It was a question I asked him about the constitutional tension with regard to the need for information work in the Committee of Inquiry on the one hand and the protection of the rights of third parties – that is, of individuals – on the other hand, to which he has informed me – and that will also be read in the minutes – that there is not really a resolution for this. There is clearly a relationship of tension; that is not a question. However, I also have to say that the Greens are really nervous today if they make a urgent request regarding the action of the financial authority in the transmission of files to the investigative committee and claim that this is illegal. I would like to remind you of the essential points of an opinion of the financial procurator: Each requested authority shall, of course, first of all be satisfied whether the Committee is acting within its power, since only in this case an obligation of the institutions under investigation will be triggered. The financial management should therefore exclude from the file paper those files or documents which cannot be dealt with in the procurement process of the Eurofighter Battle Jets. Should the separation of the individual parts of the file not be in fact possible, the official secret would have to be kept by blackmail on the corresponding part of the file. The failure to comply with this circumstance would ultimately result in a breach of the obligation to pay confidentiality, which would in turn be appropriate to trigger claims of liability against the Republic of Austria, in particular if the debtor was harmed by the unwarranted disclosure of business and business data in the public. Finally – and this is very interesting now in connection with today's information from the APA! –: In particular, with a view to ensuring that the confidential treatment of file content in the past has often not been fully preserved, careful action is needed. - Quote. In the context of this confidentiality – or unobserved confidentiality – we have come to hear a report from the APA today, in which the public was informed of the decision of the Vienna Criminal Court that a complaint against the Committee Chairman Pilz was granted on his homepage on the omission of the publication of confidential information from tax acts by Austrian citizens. In view of the objective need for all the questions in this committee, it is absolutely necessary to act in the legal framework of a parliamentary investigation committee and not to be associated with such a thing, as did the Committee chairman Pilz, and in practice to be condemned by the Court of First Instance in the first instance. Such activities – especially by the Committee chairman and also by several other committee members – are really seriously infringing the credibility of this body. I have to say that the further Presidency by Mr Pilz will have to be a debate in the Committee in the near future. In this context, however, I also ask Mr Pilz – he is not here now – whether he has complied with his announcements, which he has announced to me and also to the Committee, that he would like to introduce a bar to the permanent confidentiality violations by the Committee of Inquiry by also having a personal discussion with the President. Prammer leads. Now she's here. Perhaps he can then answer whether he has complied with these announcements and how he wants to control himself in the light of today's information of criminal conviction. [[Abg. Brosz: Why “punishment ”? – Temporary order!]] But now back to the blackened files: From our point of view, I have to say that there was no interference between the work in the committee by the files transmitted, because if the files or the blacks had really been so questionable and the files had been taken virtually regularly, how could it have been possible to reveal the payments of Steininger-Wolf, to find out and discuss the payments of Steininger-Rumpold? Payments have been made, we have taken them from the files, and no one can come and say that it is blackened in such a way that no man knows what happened. – That is, from our point of view, the Steininger tax bill has really done everything. I would like to repeat the following: The fear of disregarding the confidentiality of these highly sensitive documents was confirmed by the Committee chairman's activities – and if you can believe media reports, even by acting on the SPÖ-college herbs. I have here – and I can show this – two pages from “NEWS”, number 15 from 2007, where on one side one-to-one copies can really be seen from a tax act, and on the other side is: “Günther Herbs. The SPÖ member put the Causa Wolf on the tapet." That means that if such official confidential documents are played to the media, this must have real consequences, and that would have to be done by the committee president himself! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would like to address briefly, before my speaking time comes to an end, the other side to be criticized, namely the non-transmission of the requested - namely, with unanimous decision of the Committee of Inquiry! – Part-law opinion of Dr. Koziol, who has been prepared by the Federal Minister for Defence of the State. In this case, there is really no excuse on the part of the Minister of Defence! Whenever he comes with his reasoning, there's no cover from the subject of the investigation, and when he says he can't transmit it to us, that's ridiculous. Because if there is a expertise on payments related to the procurement and we have as one point in the decision to set up the Committee of Inquiry that the costs of an exit from the Eurofighter Treaty are to be assessed, it is clear that this expertise is essential for our committee work. Another point, which Minister Darabos repeatedly points out, is not covered by constitutional law, even though it can be considered to be of human benefit to him that he wants to have promised Mr. Dr. Koziol as an expert not to deliver the opinion to the public before his final opinion. That may be anything, but it is not covered by the Constitution. The Committee has a right to receive this information in order to be able to really do its information work. In conclusion, I would like to hold from our side once again: We want to make it clear, but the right and above all the right of citizens must remain right! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e15279	For clarification and information only: I was wrong in the time table earlier, the BZÖ has quite probably still another speaking time; so that there is no misunderstanding here. Next, Mr Magistrate. Gaßner to speak. 7 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e15303	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! I actually did not want to see myself with the actual correction of Mr Ing. Westenthaler, who wasn't. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Sure it was one! That was a classic even!]] Yes, “classical ” in your sense. I just want to say, so that it is also in the Minutes, what you have actually said, and that is in the “Wiener Zeitung”, number 105 of 31. May 2006, Location Inland, to read: Question: What are you living on? – Westenthaler: “I’m going to be socially insured, too small a relationship. This will run through the advertising agency Rumpolds.” [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is it not!]] So what's your actual correction? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Because it hasn't gone!]] Then you have to deal with the paper and not with Parliament here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I did that!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler makes the so-called windshield wiper movement in the direction of the speaker.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we have already heard some really "doubt" approaches today, as they do in this committee of inquiry. And if Mrs. Fekter said today that someone wants to sniff: Dear Mrs Fekter! I believe that sniffing has nothing to do with the work of our committee of inquiry, because I am in favour of my part and, as far as I can say for the Social Democratic Members in the committee, we are actually and honestly trying to comply with the test order and have no desire to sniff around there! [[Call the ÖVP:Pilz!]] I would certainly reject that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Fekter told us that she had done the trade academy and that accounting had an idea, and then we would only want to see these files because in class 5 or class 6 the wage data are included. Yeah, didn't you look at this paper? If you want data about employees, you need the pay bill or the health insurance documents, but please don't have a tax bill, where everything is just in there! Mrs Colleague, would it not be possible to look at this act, even the wage bill, to find names inside that are quite simply on the paylist and which are suddenly related to the acquisition of the Eurofighters? And we can't look at that, can we not investigate it?- Oh, my God! I don't see that! I don't see that at all! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] I remember the proposal of the clubman Cap, who meant: Why don't we take our lawyer, before whom we have all the respect, accept – I don't hear anything else in the committee – and ask him to look at these files with the officials of the Ministry of Finance? And if he comes and says, we don't need that, then it's good; and if he says we want this data, then we want it too to meet our investigation order. It's not that difficult! What's the problem here? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter:... Koziol opinions...!]] We are currently discussing something different, Mrs Colleague. I think there will then be another debate where you can call back the "cociol". [[President Dr. Spindelegger will again take over the presidency.]] By the way: Class 5 is also very interesting in the account framework: This is about subcontractors. This is about services purchased. So, Mrs. Colleague, if you really are so good in accounting, then you know very well that you can hide anything among these classes. And it must be possible to control that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Aha! Can you give us some tips?]] – I would like to get the tips from you. I didn't just hear accounting, I taught it for 25 years! Ladies and gentlemen, in a press release by the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State, I read that they have discovered to the APA that the Federal Ministry of Finance has immediately fulfilled all legitimate file requirements in the current investigation committees. Now, of course, I believe this to be on the floor, just the problem, ladies and gentlemen, lies in the question of permission. Who says it's right to look at this act? Who says that? – Mr Federal Minister for Finance, you do not happen, it is always just the speech from the office and the ministry. Who is that who tells us Parliamentarians in the committee of inquiry, we cannot do so and we cannot do so? I believe that we should first of all explain who is actually entitled to carry out this assessment. As it has been said again and again today that citizens' rights have to be protected – Mr Ikrath and Mr Molterer, Minister of Finance, have said that – and tax secrecy is so important, and data protection is so important: That's right, absolutely! Only: Does not the citizen, whose rights we are protecting here, have the right to know whether everything has been correctly represented in the procurement process, in the largest procurement of the Second Republic with far more than €2 billion, everything has been correctly done, and there has not been any payments here?- Oh, my God! Interestingly, ladies and gentlemen, this payment of Steininger to Wolf or to Mrs Wolf is exactly the act on which many, many lines are blackened. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: He wasn't blackened! Otherwise we don't know, Mr. Mayor!]] Yes, please, why now? The normal citizen thinks: Yeah, why? Why can't that be disclosed? I really ask you to proceed in the interests of our audit order in such a way that we can actually say: Yes, that was correct! or: No, it wasn't clean, and then the consequences are to be borne.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e15471	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. 2 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit; 5 minutes of remaining speaking time of the political group. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e15492	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! It's quite clear: Tax secrecy: please, yes; Rule of law: please, yes; Citizens' rights: yes; Data protection: yes – but please also during mobile monitoring! Where I'm clearly saying no, it's in cover-up, in blackout, in so-called fog throws. There has now been shown by us, your officials or the civil servants who are subordinated to you have taken out the felt pens at once, not at Rumpold, now at Steininger. Explain this to me! Why do all that you said before – tax secrecy, the rule of law, civil rights, data protection – not Rumpold, why do Steininger have to pull this entire register at once? In addition, where it becomes clear at Steininger that the blackness has been done where EADS stands in the background. Only in the case of EADS matters has so far been partially unjustly deleted, show us detailed investigations. In our request it is clearly documented: ‘Honorary Communications’, round 6.4 million € – not blackened. And suddenly further down with revenue “spent replacement” is blackened! I'm saving you a second example for time. Here is the basic question: How can officials even know what to blacken and what not if you have not told them that they should blacken out where suspicions stand in the room that money flows were perhaps on the way to parties? That is the only way, Mr Finanzminister, I can say that you are walling so much today and that we in Parliament, in the Committee on Inquiry, are massively weakening our control rights. This is not going to happen, it is a scandal, because you finally have to go ahead with the rule of law and Parliament's legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e15532	The next speaker was Mr Graf. Maximum speaking time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e15553	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! The issue has been a problem since the two committees of inquiry were set up. A small historical demolition: There were 16 committees of inquiry in this Republic, including the two currently running. Nine of them were used for the operation of the ÖVP, eight of them were used for the operation of the SPÖ – sometimes a joint operation – six of them on the operation of the Freedom Party and now the second also on the operation of the Greens, and partly always with changing majority. In fact, there has never been such a veritable problem with regard to file building generally by the individual ministries, but also after-sales departments and, in particular, by the disbursed authorities. In reality, we are living in a field of tension, in a field of tension between the authorities' official understanding on the one hand – and I count, when I take the Banking Committee now, also the audited authorities of Austria National Bank and financial market supervision – and the self-understanding of Members on the other. A real field of tension, where a lot of things now collide. The second point, of course, is the point of confidence and confidentiality, which, depending on the political situation of the individual Members or after the camp, is interpreted differently, if you want to call it so. We have done well, we have jointly decided to publish all five parties, the non-confidential protocols through Communiqués. It is therefore also necessary to consider how in part the official understanding of officials is. Officials have told us in the Banking Committee: If one sends documents to Parliament, it is too easy to get to the public, and that is why one has not thought that this or that document is being transmitted. – Documents from the Ministries are also sent to the media! We must not like such self-understanding in this context at all! Trust in the authorities is not really great on the part of parliamentarians and probably also on the part of those in charge of the department. I shall present this to you on the basis of a few examples. Why should we, as Members of this Parliament, have confidence in authorities or bodies that send us letters like this? I quote one deputy for some other authorities, one from the judiciary. I've been on the 6th. On March 20, 2007, I received a bad letter because I said in an interview that the judicial authorities, especially the national courts, do not send us the relevant documents, whose submission we have decided and demanded – and that is our right! ==References====External links== ==References== On 3 March 2007, I received a letter from the President of the Court of Justice, in which he informed me: Only with 1. We have been informed by the Ministry of Justice on February that we have submitted documents! [[Abg. That's a terrible thing!]] This is enormous if, in the case of the Ministry of Justice – but there was also the same in the Ministry of Finance – the Ministry of Justice needs three months to understand an authority, in which case the local judicial administration authority will have to submit documents! [[Abg. Strache: That's called slowing down!]] If this President of the Court of Justice of Salzburg – that is to say, we have published the minutes of the public meetings – then settle the letter indicating when he actually got it – and that is not under facsimile, because this is a personal letter to me, he complains to me – and he says we have submitted all the documents immediately, then I believe him primarily once. However, if we take the decision in the Committee that we want a declaration of completeness of the individual departments, and then the following is the case, namely, that on 9 May, the Council adopted a resolution on the matter. March – although I am on 6 March. ==References====External links== In February, and they complain that I am saying something else – we are told: Today the Landesgericht Salzburg has at 3.30 p.m. – today, 9. March, so after the letter, where he complains, how I can say such a thing! – by means of the BMJ about 2.5 running meters of original documents transmitted, why should I still believe an authority if it writes me malicious letters when we require permanent documents and we don't get them? The same happens to the Financial Markets Supervisory Authority, which has also confirmed us that we have submitted all the documents. I can write you a letter from 12. April 2007 shows what happened to our committee, which is only a few days ago, when we are told: We still have 74 file folders that we send you, but at the same time tell you that this is not all yet, but our resources are so scarce. We then agreed with them that they will send the documents when they are copied and finished. This is not really trustworthy by the authorities. Other authorities come and say we have presented all the files. And now I really am going to break my confidence, because these documents, which I have here, are only accessible to me under the facsimile ‘F’, that is, the Freedom Party, and therefore comprehensible, and I am giving you these files, Mr. Federal Minister, that is from your field of action. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] When I am then sent files in the BAWAG case, which we have demanded, and which, including the greeting formula, consist of only blacks, only blacks from the first to the last side – even the signature of the official who made this note, has finally been tried to make unknown, even the greeting formula has been blackened out! – do you really believe that, at the end of such an authority, one can have confidence in us that it will have the essential documents, the information and the investigation committee?- Oh, my God! [[Vice chancellor Mag. Mr Molterer: That is what you have decided yourself, Mr Graf!]] We didn't decide! [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: To keep the banking secret, you have decided that yourself!]] Yes, we have decided to preserve banking secrecy, and the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure do. I'm telling you, it's about like the testimony: If you have a legitimate reason – and this is what it is, if you call on a secret, banking secrecy, tax secrecy, business secrecy – then you have – and so it is in the Rules of Procedure or in the Rules of Procedure; I refer to Zägernitz, which is not unknown to you, to make it credible that this does not affect the subject matter of investigation and that these grounds of appeal are also rightly cited. You have to make that credible, and you can't turn it around by saying: Makes it credible that these documents are at all related to them! It's reversed! The parliamentarian's self-understanding must be: Send me all the essential documents and make believing why some documents are not available to us! Then we can examine with the lawyer – that is how it is regulated – whether we trust this credulatory or not. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You turn it around! – And You sit here and say you trust your officials. Then I ask you, Minister of State: Why didn't you sign the declaration of completeness we requested, but sent your officials for it? Trust You don't have your own officials? One thing I'm saying to you: The declaration of completeness now works! Should something come out of the way that we were deprived of, then we are clearly moving in § 302, abuse of office – as you will agree with me – such a thing should come about. It is therefore very important to trust, but you also have to go through to the top. You haven't done this in part, you'll represent the opinions. If we hear from the committee – published protocol, therefore no mystery or anything else, in the 18th century. Session, page 40 below, and in the 20th session. Meeting, page 40 – that according to the information given by the Financial Market Supervisory Board and the National Bank for Acquiring Persons in advance, already in November, with the Financial Procuratorship and similar Institutions, and that they have decided which documents they do not present to us, this is an abuse of the official's understanding towards Parliament! [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign]] No other way, that's worth it.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e15648	Please put the final sentence to the vote, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e15663	Thank you, Mr President. – It is the self-understanding of the parliamentarians that we also have to get back to ourselves in the context of the many disseminations of questioning, interpolation rights and the like!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e15693	The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament. 3 minutes remaining speaking time of the Group. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e15731	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There has been one for six months now, I think, wish expressed by the Austrian People's Party, which consists of several parts: [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Put your chair back!]] The Committee should stop its work, the chairman should resign, the leader of the SPÖs should withdraw, the leader of the FPÖs should resign, the Committee should stop its activities and so on. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] I can assure you – now as Chairman of the Committee – that: I believe that it is not possible to comply with the wishes of the ÖVP in this case as well. - That's the first one. The second is a very concrete fear. At the beginning of this debate, it was not clear whether Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance Molterer did not signal Parliament: Yes, we take seriously your wishes, your legal ideas and the findings of the most important constitutional judges of the Republic – including the lawyers of this House –, we will continue to focus on these principles in the future on file transmission, and we are looking for a clear discussion with the Committee, or with both committees. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Put the chair back!]] The minimum would have been to offer a clear discussion with the committees on the part of the Minister for Finance. None of it! The only thing we can expect from the Minister of Finance is an extra allocation of black felt pens to his officials. This is clear after this debate. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] There comes the file Wolf, there is additional file rumpold, there are files of other armor lobbyists and lobbyists like Plattner, like Keglevich and, and, up to the Key Person Bergner from the area EADS itself. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Edellinger file!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Edlinger!]] Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. That is why it was important that today's discussion with the President of the National Council took place. That is why it was important that the Madam President should now act vis-à-vis the Federal Minister for Finance. I don't think it can stay there; I believe that sometime now the hour of the Federal Chancellor comes. If he is serious about it with the support of Parliament and also his own party, he has to go here sometime and say: It is not my deputy who decides what is happening to Parliament on behalf of the Federal Government. ,but at last the Federal Chancellor must say: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter]] If it is necessary to support Parliament, to clarify and represent the interests of the Republic of Austria, then I have something to say too! That's why my last call was: Mr. Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer! Finally, make it clear which side you are on, on the side of Parliament and the rule of law or on the side of the Austrian People's Party! Thank you. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e15843	The next speaker was Mr Jarolim. 4 minutes speaking time, this is also the remaining speaking time of the Group. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e15875	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In my speech, I would like to express once again what I have not been able to do in the actual correction, because Mr Fekter has actually been making legal opinions over a long period of time, which have been presented as incorrect by the experts to whom they are assigned. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The Dominant Teaching!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Reading after reading, Mr. Jarolim! Read it!]] Mrs Fekter, it's kind of embarrassing if you quote someone with something the person concerned says on his own initiative several times that he didn't say it if he can't defend himself here and is taken by you with this opinion. I believe that this is impossible in such an important matter! Mr Finanzminister, let me say that we really respect all your attempts to go the right way in the rule of law. But with discussions like those of Colleague Fekter, this will unfortunately not be possible of God. I also respect the fact that you were not responsible here, but that the whole thing was actually under the former Chancellor Dr. Schüssel, and I am surprised that he has not spoken here today and has once set out his view of things. [[Abg. Street: Where Molterer is on it is a bowl in there!]] I would like to say this on the occasion. Ladies and gentlemen, what this is about is an extreme scandal, and it has to be clarified! It can already be understood by any outsider that the clarification of a scandal cannot be carried out through and through blackened documents. Mrs Fekter, I would just like to say the following: so that Professor Mayer is not always mis-quoted here. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, I would really ask you: I am trying to argue these things objectively and to put a little light in the dark where Mr Fekter obviously told you something wrong. Please let me just read what I wanted to say earlier. At the last meeting of the Examining Committee of Mr Fekter, Professor Mayer has also been confronted with this legal opinion – or with this disagreement – which she presented here today. Mrs Fekter said to him: Professor Mayer, I'm holding you from a book. – He then said: Ladies and gentlemen, I must tell you that we already have to distinguish what facts we have to assess here, and you cannot draw this conclusion. Then he said: In the present case, in other words, it is necessary to “see business revenue and expenditure” – in other words, its operating income, that is, Steininger’s, “to be considered fully covered by the investigation order..., for otherwise the requested authority, namely the Ministry of Finance, would “premise the work of the Committee”. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think it's clearer to say: Mayer says it must not be blackened because the blackmailing of the investigation order is at risk! Mr Federal Minister for Finance, I can really ask you here: That's not an attack on you now, but that's the usual legal opinion. This is also the opinion of the expert to whom Mr Fekter refers. I mean, here we should just apply the legal opinions that exist, as they exist – so there is no blackness! – and we should not try to abuse professors and put words in their mouths against which they have already expressly resisted. I think that we owe it to science, we owe it to ourselves, and we owe it to the sovereign to carry out investigations here that ultimately clarify what even your former Federal chancellor called for. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e15953	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[17:30:20]] Short debate on the response to the question 260/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e15975	We are now entering the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Defence with the order 260/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I should now like to ask the honourable Member Scheibner as an applicant for the request to open the debate. His speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e16009	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to ask a question to the Minister for Defence and to ask a whole series of questions about the Causa, which has already been dealt with in the urgent question today, but which is what the principles are, the maintenance of a constitutional task, namely the monitoring of our airspace. This was particularly true in view of the fact that the Minister of Defence considered it his most important task – and this was also reflected in his first opinions – to get out of the Eurofighter Treaty. It has, of course, been interesting and important for us as a Member of Parliament, which steps he has already taken at this time and which alternatives are planned if he succeeds in implementing this most important or only project in order to cover this constitutional task of airspace surveillance even without Eurofighter. We have also asked a number of other questions, such as the SAAB 105, the Black Hawk or the helicopter upgrade. But the core was this question of discussions with EADS and also the question of alternatives. That was really our desire, because I believe that, as a representative of the Republic of Austria, and especially as those Members who are at the heart of the country's security, we already want to ask the minister responsible, and ask how the security policy should continue in the future, because – party policy to or from here – it simply cannot be that a minister who takes over a place, namely a place to deal with the security of the country, is only thinking about how he can implement a Party political commitment to his own party. We would have expected that we would also have a corresponding answer to these questions – they were not evil, they were quite normal. And I can remember the time – that is not so long ago – when the SPÖ was in opposition, since we had very, very many questioning meetings here and also in the presidential many discussions that the SPÖ criticised that ministers from the ÖVP or from the BZÖ – or before from the FPÖ – had not answered enough and comprehensively to requests from Members. That was Parliament's disdain, the breach of law and the breach of the Rules of Procedure. There have been intense debates about this – you certainly remember it – and then they agreed that they said: Well, it is clear from the Rules of Procedure that the Minister cannot clearly be criticized for the content of an answer, but the Minister is obliged, in the sense of the Members' right of intervention, to answer questions, not to seek any excuses and to say that for these and those reasons, with very few exceptions, he refuses to answer. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer:... do not prejudge the result!]] Now, even after many years in Parliament, we can maintain a certain level of naïveness and believe that the things previously announced in the opposition will be implemented even if you are in the government. And I remember – Mr Cap is just coming in – that I said: I'll remind him of his promises! He's been standing here and he said: You will see that we are going to deal with the opposition differently than you – he pointed out to us – have done that because the right of interconnection is one of Parliament's most important rights! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer]] I promise you, and You can take me by word, we will respect these rights! – End of the cap quote, here from the speaker's desk. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Darabos also spoke similarly!]] Yes, Mr Darabos – now the Minister – was also a Member of Parliament for a long time, and one could imagine that, after this criticism, which he certainly also expressed himself in the opposition at that time, he now makes it different, and on questions raised by Members who are serious and objective, there are also the appropriate comprehensive answers. But what does Mr Darabos do? – He gives an answer to the questions 1 to 5 and 24 and 25 of our question, which is exactly the following: What happens to the Eurofighter now? Was there already discussions?, because at that time it was said that the Minister had already held talks – representatives of EADS have said that there has been no talks yet, so we wanted to inform – by just saying Lapidar that a task force on airspace surveillance aircraft has been set up to implement the government programme in his resort, that this task force should review a comprehensive project control for airspace monitoring et cetera and the examination of the exit variants and he does not want to prejudge these results and therefore asks for understanding that he does not answer these questions. Minister! Where are your clubman's promises and also your own that you give the answers to questions from Members? The Task Force is beautiful and good, but I only regret the members of this Task Force, because members of the Austrian Federal Army and the Federal Ministry of Defence are in fact assigned to abolish at least one area after, otherwise, in the entire history of the Republic of Ministers who have tried to fight for the Austrian federal army to get something! [[Abg. Murauer:... remove!]] And now, for the first time, we have a minister who is forcing his own officials to give away something you already have! That's something very extraordinary. Back to the question answer: We just wanted to know if there were already conversations. It is not possible to say that this is narrowing your negotiating position, but that is a question that is quite simply to be answered with a yes or no – if we, as representatives of the Republic, want to know about it! I would like to remind you of the right of interconnection, Minister, Article 52(1). 1 B-VG: “The National Council and the Federal Council are empowered to review the management of the Federal Government, to consult its members on all matters of enforcement and to request all relevant information and to express their wishes regarding the exercise of the execution in resolutions.” – Article 52 para. 1 B-VG. Mr Minister, you have been defended to this Austrian federal constitution, and that is why you also have to comply with this Austrian federal constitution, regardless of whether this corresponds to your party political intentions or not! [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] This is happening precisely against this background, Mr Minister – also against this background! – but also against the background that you, as Minister of Defense, are doing everything you can to stop fulfilling an important task of your department in the future, namely the surveillance of the airspace, also against the background that we hear complaints from the ministry that everything has stopped and that nothing happens in the Ministry of Defence! Where are your initiatives, for example, with regard to safety standards for EURO 2008? Where are the initiatives of your ministry and of you personally when it comes, for example, to the participation and development of European security and defence policy? Where are they? Your initiatives for the implementation of the military reform? Where are your initiatives for improving the device? Now I hear – we will probably not get an answer either, and probably you don't know, because you don't care about it all, you're just interested in the party-political mission – that you know the M109 – that is the tank hood that has been modernized has been brought to Europe's standard, whereby you have purchased spare parts for the entire spectrum, for the total number – now scrapping or selling at a scrap price, to the detriment of the German army, to the detriment of the Republic of Austria! These are things, Mr President, which are within your area of responsibility, with which you are causing massive damage to the Republic of Austria and to the security interests! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shopf.]] [[Abg. Faul: We have been accused!]] Yes, that corresponds to your level, Mr. Cot. That corresponds to your level! You should not hide behind your party-political glasses and call down here with inappropriate calls, which shows where you came from. A government party that should be responsible for the security of the country and then hidden behind inadequate calls and calls! You don't know anything else! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Minister, against this background, we have also announced that if this does not change quickly – yes, you do not even make a real correction – that we will then respond with mistrust and with ministerial support. However, we will insist, as we now demand, that you at least correspond to a fundamental right of Members and give comprehensive and factual answers to matters. You still have the chance to correct this. I'm very excited if you're aware of this opportunity.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e16123	On a statement from the government bank, Mr. Mag. Darabos. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e16144	Mr President. High house! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Zivi Minister!]] Mr Westenthaler, I will try to get out of the way. My predecessor is very emotional, I understand, because in the last government he was no longer allowed to exercise this function which he has so gladly exercised. I'll say soon... [[Abg. Scheibner: Unlike you!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He did his military service – unlike you!]] Mr Scheibner! You asked me to answer the question. I'll do that, too. I say quite frankly to you: We have a different political attitude on this issue, that is right. I stand on airspace surveillance, I have negotiated with Mr Platter, with your successor and my predecessor: Air space monitoring is to be ensured in Austria, and social democracy, like the entire government, is the case! I have negotiated that, and my signature is also under this government programme. Please note this and do not say that SPÖ is against airspace monitoring. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There are a lot of other initiatives in my office, for example: Six months Service is enough! [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Murauer: We already have that!]] That is what we stand for, even though the ÖVP laughs. I hope that it will be agreed here in Parliament. [[Abg. Scheibner: There is already!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He just has no idea!]] This is also laid down in writing in the Government Convention in such a way that there is a legal initiative, Mr Murauer. I suppose you will decide. I am in favour of implementing the 2010 ÖBH reform. [[Abg. Scheibner: There is already!]] There is no legal basis, Mr Scheibner, you know that very well. [[Abg. Amon: That's not true!]] I am in favour of the implementation of the 2010 Bundesheerreform, which was decided by the votes of all the parties represented in Parliament. We will move forward with this reform. It has not been pushed forward in recent months, even on the basis of the election campaign, in the intensity of how it must be driven forward. I say quite frankly to you: I do not understand your excitement, because I have answered every single question you have asked me, and I am also very happy to document and manifest this here again. This request has been addressed to me by the BZÖ a few days after I took office, and I have responded quickly to the best of my knowledge and consciences, as far as this can be in line with political intentions and criteria. [[Abg. Scheibner: March!]] The first five questions you have asked here concern the subject matter of my negotiations with Eurofighter GmbH, and I can inform you that the Federal Government will be present on 30 July. In October 2006, i.e. in the previous year, a motion for a resolution here in the National Council called for all steps to be taken to break down the Treaty on the procurement of Eurofighters cost-effectively. This has been largely decided here in Parliament. Whether you've been there or not, it's so to speak, not relevant. It is simply a fact that this was a mandate from Parliament, and I do so in my office. I therefore began discussions and negotiations with EADS and Eurofighter immediately after I took office, and these talks have been taking place since then, at irregular intervals. My main contact partner is – and this is also known – Eurofighter Chief Aloysius Rauen. And that is the answer to question 1. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He doesn't know anything about it!]] On questions 2 to 5, which are possible alternatives to the Eurofighters and any procurement procedures, I would like to say: I welcome the fact that, obviously, the BZÖ has now also agreed to withdraw from this Eurofighter contract and therefore already wants to be informed about alternatives. I note that the Austrian airspace surveillance, the monitoring of the Austrian airspace until 30. June 2008 – but you know this, Mr Scheibner – is in any case monitored significantly by the currently in operation 12 F-5 aircraft we have leased from Switzerland. We have had some major events in Austria, such as the monitoring of the Latin American forum or – not directly in Austria, but in Davos – the World Economic Forum, which we of course had to ensure in Vorarlberg and Tyrol that the airspace was monitored there, and these twelve, Mr Scheibner – I emphasize the word “twelf” – guaranteed F-5 aircraft excellently for Austria. [[Abg. Scheibner: How was that at night?]] I can assure you that in any case there will be an effective and cost-effective solution if we can get out of the Eurofighter contract. However, I am looking for an understanding of this – and this remains true – that I cannot become more concrete before the end of the negotiations with Eurofighter, since the further action of course depends significantly on the outcome of these negotiations, but the Austrians can sleep quietly: The airspace is monitored and is also best monitored with the F-5 of Switzerland. On Question 6 I would like to say that I do not know anything about a connection between the Eurofighter reduction in the amount of money that has already been paid from 24 to 18 with the Advanced European Joint Fighter Training Center project. This project is currently working on a Memorandum of Understanding for the Phase up to the award of an integrated and European training system. On questions 7 and 8 – and I hope you take note of this so that I really answer the questions individually – I would like to say that I can tell you that 41 Alpha Jets as well as Cameroon 4 Alpha Jets are currently in use in Egypt. Question No 9, I answer how you asked me to do it with a simple no. On questions 10 to 19 I would like to say – these are the questions concerning SAAB 105 –: Of course, I know that SAAB 105 is a speedy trainer. Accordingly, these aircraft have been and will be used in the area of their speed spectrum in the subsonic area. An extension of its duration is currently in the planning phase, and it is about the use of this SAAB 105 for continuing, continuing and continuing training until 2020, as mentioned several times by me in the public discussion. At present, it is about obtaining information on technical feasibility, laying down the equipment and determining the time and budget requirements in the context of a request for information, and I will be happy to inform you, if these negotiations take on further progress, of the progress of these negotiations. In any case – and that is, I believe, also in your sense – the objective is that SAAB 105 can continue to be used for training, training and training purposes in the direction of 2020. I can scatter your concerns regarding the connection between the Midlife update and the acquisition of new interception hunters in so far as a modification of SAAB 105 is at least necessary in order to continue to operate it in the medium term and not to have to scrap. The procurement was already carried out in 1970, and a technical upgrade has to be carried out in order to continue using it, of course now. On your questions regarding the number of flight hours of the Eurofighter pilots on SAAB 105 in case of a reduction in the number of Eurofighters to 16, 14 or 12 pieces, as shown in the request, I will inform you that, in the event of a reduction, an extensive new assessment of the training and deployment concept will take place. Accordingly, a response to these questions – unfortunately, I cannot say anything better – is only possible after my negotiations with Eurofighter. With regard to your questions, which go towards cost savings in reducing the number of euro fighters you do not want to operate, but which is quite a negotiating goal, I tell you that this issue is being discussed in depth, in addition to the exit scenario, with Eurofighter, and you and also the colleagues from the ÖVP, who have smiled a little hard, can ask Mr Aloysius Rauen if there are these negotiations. There are, of course! I've set up a task force to check the exit scenario. I have set up a tripartite group that will lead the negotiations with Eurofighter and EADS, and I will not be blamed here either. I would like to free Austrian taxpayers from unnecessary expenditure, and I am not intimidating myself with requests. [[Abg. Amon: At the expense of the state defense! At the expense of security!]] Finally, I say quite unpolemically to your question 28, which is whether I can agree with my conscience that aircraft are armed – I would not have to answer this question at all, but I would still like to answer it – a very simple yes. I will fight over the next few weeks for the Austrian taxpayers to be given a clear approval of this contract, no matter what pressure you want me to put in a parliamentary position, under which pressure Eurofighter and EADS want to put me under. [[Abg. Scheibner: A parliamentary request is an intimidation!]] [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: If that's already pressure!]] I have answered the questions of best knowledge and conscience, all 28 as they have been asked by you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e16422	The speaking time of the Members to speak shall be 5 minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr Gaál was the first to speak. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e16447	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Scheibner, we are sure that security is at our heart, we have confirmed and proved this in the past years of our cooperation, and in this area too we are Social Democrats in favour of competence, credibility and trust; I would like to predict that. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We would have been a minister for you!]] The Social Democrats have repeatedly pointed out that security policy is not suitable for party policy. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Very positive!]] That is what we have said, also in the opposition, and we are holding here today as a government party. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Saying is not enough! You have to do that too!]] One must also be given honor to the truth: Of course, this Eurofighter acquisition has nothing to do with airspace monitoring. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, there is no need for luxury fighter jets that are difficult to finance. We do not need them, neither in Austria nor in Europe. Today's question response and the urgent request confirm that the only way out of this Eurofighter debacle is still the fastest possible exit, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With every new detail about this Eurofighter deal, the scale becomes clear again and again, and it confirms more than ever how negligently the former German government has dealt with hard-earned tax money here, ladies and gentlemen. From the very beginning, we have said that this Eurofighter acquisition is a barrel without soil, and have repeatedly, and many years ago, called for the immediate exit, but you have not complied with this our desire. If you remember: The Court of Auditors has fully confirmed in its statements, during its examination, the essential points of the SPÖ critique, ladies and gentlemen. Then: We know that here must demands have not been fulfilled or have been changed to target requirements. The compulsory notes were subsequently amended in favour of EADS and to the detriment of the Republic of Austria and to the detriment of Austrian taxpayers. And the results achieved so far in the Committee of Inquiry – and this must also be confirmed by colleagues from the ÖVP here – show the accuracy of the SPÖ positions, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is the most expensive decision of a Federal Government in the Second Republic, a decision that has been taken against the majority of the Austrian population. Surveys confirm that more than 80 percent of Austrians are against this sinteurous procurement of these fighter bombs, ladies and gentlemen. The procedure of the previous Federal Government in connection with this procurement is really inconceivable! That is why I do not understand one thing, Mr Scheibner: What is happening here today from your side is a pure distraction for me, and this is just from that party that bears joint responsibility here. This procurement carries the handwriting of the ÖVP, carries in particular the manuscript of the former Federal Chancellor Schüssel and will be your responsibility here, ladies and gentlemen, for you are setting the wrong priorities with this procurement – you know for a long time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have quite different priorities here: We are based on a comprehensive security concept, which probably includes the military sector, but goes far beyond that. Our policy in this Federal Government is also about safe jobs, about safe health care, about safe pensions in the end. These are our initiatives, and we stand for an efficient security policy, we stand for an efficient, credible policy in the broad sense for all Austrians. With this Eurofighter purchase, you have chosen the most expensive variant by far, without presenting a financing concept. This purchasing policy still does not agree with us, ladies and gentlemen. And once again it's said: The only chance to get out of this debacle is the immediate exit. And we will continue to pursue this objective in committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e16529	The next speaker is Mr Murauer. Also 5 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e16550	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Landeswehrungsminister, I should like to inform you that the six months of the basic defence service are already being carried out under a regulation. And the law that we have passed – you were not there, so you voted against – comes with 1. In effect next year, and of course, Toni Gaál, we can also decide a few more times if you are easier to do so. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] If you have pointed out that we are also committed to international events in neighbouring countries and we are expected to monitor the airspace, and you have repeated several times that you have secured the event in Davos with twelve F-5 – with twelve, you have said that several times – then I expect you as the Minister of Defense to be prepared for a second incident. If they needed twelve planes for the safety of Davos and if a second incident had happened, I have to tell you: Then I wish you and us all the best, because then we have nothing more to do with this! So because of how many planes we need, and if an incident is, we already have 12 planes enough. I don't care – Mr. Federal Minister, you have the responsibility! – whether we order 18, 12 or 9 aircraft in the future or a Eurofighter for each federal state. I don't know what's going on with you. You are responsible for the security of our country, you are responsible for ensuring the airspace of our country. We have agreed on this in the Government Agreement, and I expect you to take the necessary steps. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That you have little joy with information, we have been able to observe this already during the time you are now ministers. I do not even want to remind you of the Committee on Defence or of the debate on the budget. Federal Minister! What about the legal opinion? You have announced: Now the legal opinion is coming! and have said that this legal review will support you accordingly to exit. Your very special goal is to get out of here. The Minister comes out of a contract agreed by the Republic before his term of office – from a contract which is valid, a contract on which both partners have to rely. Your first attempt is to cancel this contract, and don't go away from it, and that is supported by your defense spokesman. So that's incomprehensible! And now the legal opinion is coming, namely the legal opinion that you are announcing, of which you say: I am not sure what is happening to Parliament, so please, that I cannot say anything about it, and I cannot make it available to the committee of inquiry because I am not sure there! However, I do not think you have said that, but the Federal Chancellor has said that. It is therefore not certain, Mr President, whether this will not go out again. The honourable Members therefore have no right to judge this case because the Minister says: We're not ready yet, we still have a task force, and if it's necessary, another task group! Mr Federal Minister, in the previous debate, it was strongly emphasized: We need that! The National Council, the Members have the right to know what is hidden in opinions, in knowledge, in the submissions of the Minister for Finance! – And now, in this opinion, does that not matter?- Oh, my God! Mr. Federal Minister, in conclusion – unfortunately, I have too little time, but we will be able to talk about it a few more times in the next few days –: What negotiations have you conducted if you actually reduce the number of aircraft that could cancel them – which I do not believe anyway? What is your consequence? What contracts? Who are you inviting? Are you ordering aircraft without a call? Becoming You invite Eurofighter again? What do you do when the Eurofighters are in the first place again because there is the best cost-benefit assessment for Eurofighters? Will you take the Eurofighters at second reading? And how does your security policy look like when you say: We get out first, and what's next, nobody matters, there's the task force in charge!Unknown term type: "%s".? Mr. Federal Minister, you are responsible for the security of Austria – and we expect it from you!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e16624	The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament. Also 5 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e16665	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! On the subject of Mr Kukacka's reply: Of course, the Eurofighter Examining Committee will carry out its mission in the same way that Parliament has commissioned it, and as the Committee's bodies have been elected, even if this is a major burden for the Austrian People's Party. I'm the one who... [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You as chairman are a burden! You're condemned! The committee is okay, but you as chairman are unbearable!]] For the opinion of the cociol: Mr Darabos, Federal Minister for Research, has taken a unanimous decision to make the cociol opinion or the present part of the opinion available to the Committee. You have disputed what your right is, the relationship with the investigational order and the subject-matter of the investigation. I am not the only one in this committee, but I share the legal opinion of the SPÖ colleagues that you are not right on this issue. You are obliged to make this partial opinion available to the Examining Committee for substantive and legal reasons! But let us now imagine that this was not according to the method of Darabos, but according to the method of ÖVP. Then you can figure out about what would have happened: An ÖVP minister would have said: Well, that's already covered by the subject matter of investigation, I'll send you the opinion, but only the parts that fit me, but the part where it stands that you can possibly get out, we'll blackmail once! [[Abg. May. Kukacka:... do not infringe the legal protection!]] Then there is a part where the existence of Eurofighters is accepted that such planes are being built abroad, we leave that! And then the Committee's rights are pointed out, we are going to push that through again. That's how it would have looked under an ÖVP minister! – I am anything but a deep friend of all the customs and customs of Austrian social democracy from all my history, but in this case we can be glad that no member of the Austrian People’s Party leads the defence department. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You have always been an opponent of the defense!]] Either way, the conflict is not saving us. We will have to continue the conflict with the Minister of Defence, which I personally regret, as an investigative committee, because we are obliged to do so. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You have always been against the state defense!]] With regard to the Koziol opinion, I personally, after last Friday, the day on which some professors, from Aicher to Mayer to Kletecka, described to us very detailedly that there is probably no legal and factual alternative to the contract announcement, the impression that the planned Committee opinion is much more expected of quality than the Koziol opinion, first for the simple reason, because one of its main authors will also be one of the authors of the rules of conduct of the Treaty, and secondly, because not only a civil lawyer, but civil lawyers, contract lawyers, constitutional lawyers and possibly representatives of other legal disciplines will judge here. We will then have to talk about whether the cociol opinion can be a reasonable addition to the Committee's opinion, but that will have to be assessed by the Committee at a later stage. Last comment: Although there is basically a comparable legal situation, what the Minister of Finance refers to Parliament is a completely different political quality. It is totally unacceptable that a minister against the spirit and letters of the Constitution is presumptuous to become the head of Parliament. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This is the crucial point: No minister, whatever government, has the right to censor the Austrian National Council! No minister has the right to ignore the letter and the spirit of the federal constitution and to make himself the master of the procedure! No Minister of this Republic has the right to decide for himself what information is given to the Committee and which are concealed and hidden. As I said, this is the point on which there is a minister in the Federal Government who believes that the Constitution does not apply to him. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] It's up to the high house to end this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e16775	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Fichtenbauer. Also 5 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e16797	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is, we say, a good reason to talk in this House about matters of national defence, because the national defence is anyway the stepchild of this Republic, regardless of what color teaching is to be used for the respective Federal Chancellor or the respective Federal Minister. I should like to express very generally, but very clearly, that the value of a particular chapter of the administration is strongly reflected in the budgetary position assigned to this administrative area, and for decades the Federal Government has been the final light of the attention of this Republic. Secondly, it should be recalled that in the post-purchasing question of the Drakes, as well as in other European countries, a certain amount of congestion has occurred – for example, the Finns as well as the Swiss – and that the post-purchasing decision has been taken under the government's climate in 1999. I would add that it is also late. The post-purchasing decision has made it absolutely clear that aircraft, generation 4 interceptors are being purchased. That's it. And now we are on the type question, and I am saving myself the deciding of dealing with the type question, because in principle the vital issues associated with it are to be dealt with independently of type. On the issue of the presentation of the Koziol opinion, I accept the constitutional note that the procurement of this opinion has become part of the general administration of the Federal Ministry of Defence and therefore I do not see a legal basis for giving the opinion to Parliament in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. But that's not the main point. Another point is that, in the context of the current debate, it is of course not only about the Eurofighter question but also about the Eurofighter question that is being misused in order to be fundamentally diverted from the substantial needs of national defence. It is of course true that such a beautiful, placardial area of representation can easily consume public attention, but in the area of responsibility for national defence, we cannot stop it. Among other things, it is wrongly claimed that the current lease ratio of the F-5, Switzerland, will ensure airspace surveillance by 2008. That's probably true, but with that, the airspace security – and I'm not talking about airspace defence at all here; but the protection is the preliminary stage of defense – in no way apostrophic. On the contrary: F-5 is not capable of night fighting and not poor weather, so that the F-5 can be photographed by day, at good weather, but the constitutional content is not enough. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I also point out that the F-5 in Switzerland also serves another tactical concept. Next item and conclusion: Tomorrow at the budget debate, we will have to discuss the other issues still to be addressed in connection with the national defence. But I only invite that it would be extremely useful for a serious administration of this ministry not to ignore all aspects of the urgent needs of national defence because of the Eurofighter. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e16873	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. Also 5 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e16894	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Federal Minister, we all know that you would have preferred to become Minister of the Interior as Minister of the Defense of the State, but now you are the Minister of Defence of the State and have been in office for 100 days, and if you are in office for 100 days, you should know, if you confess to six months of military service, that this has already been decided by regulation and in § 20 of the Wehrgesetz also stands inside and with 1. January 2008 will enter into force. - That's what I'm talking about. I can only take part of your commitment to airspace surveillance, because you say that by the year 2008 airspace monitoring will be carried out with the F-5, which has been leased by the Swiss. Mr. Minister of Defence, as we know, the F-5 is an emergency solution. As we have just heard from my previous speaker, this plane is practically only suitable for a nice weather flight and for photography in daylight, in beautiful weather, but for nothing else. So it's an emergency solution. To plan a correct solution, a longer lead time is necessary. As you want to do after 2008, I still have a mystery. Mr. Federal Minister Darabos, you have already announced before your fishing observation that you will do everything you can to get out of the Eurofighter Treaty. They will also be in the “NEWS” of the 11th century. Citing January 2007, where it reads as follows: The aim of the Social Democracy is to make sure that, in the campaign, the Eurofighter Treaty has already been set aside or that the costs are reduced by €500 to 600 million. That would be the second goal, and the exchange from the planes to other airspace surveillance bodies as well. That's what you said about this area. You have answered only those questions in your reply that you have answered before. And on questions 1 to 5, I have to say again: The Swiss F-5 is an emergency solution, that's all! Mr Federal Minister, it cannot go on anyway! Mr. Federal Minister, regarding your statements about the talks with EADS or with Eurofighter GmbH, there is still a lot open. We still lack the information about this. Very dubios is above all the story in today's 'curies', on page 3, where the honourable Member is quoted as saying: The Committee has already supported a lot of things, and there is still a lot to be done, and the sums known so far do not correspond to the international level of arms operations. The usual lubricating rate is 3 percent, which is 16 million €. Mr deputies, you say that if the Committee continues to search, there would have to be a lot more to find. – You seem to know yourself very well in arms stores, in lubrications and so on! [[Abg. Reheis: What is that supposed to mean? What's the point?- Oh, my God!]] Do you know what is left of the population on the basis of such statements, Mr. Cot? You know what's left? – That all politicians in Austria are corrupt and take lubrications. That remains with such statements! But you have to know well if you know exactly that you're cashed three percent! Yeah, what's that? That's crazy! [[Abg. Parnigoni: Sigisbert, you must be very scared because you're so excited! Sigisbert, open your tax record!]] This is the reflection of social democracy in here! That's double-bedded. It can't be like that! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't have much time now, because my speaking time is limited. But this is already in need of information, and the whole connection with Mr Darabos, Federal Minister. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] If you are of this opinion – and you should now consider this thoroughly – then you too agree with this non-knowledge!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e16968	Mr Dolinschek's request, which has just been submitted, that the National Council should not take note of the reply to the question, is under negotiation. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Dolinschek, ladies and gentlemen, not to take note of the reply to the question. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of their lack of knowledge to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. [[18:17:31]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17017	I take the negotiations on the 3rd. Agenda item again. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17043	Mr President! Minister! I remind you: We were at the discussion around the seals. Among other things, one can measure how far the degree of humanity of a society has advanced in dealing with weaker living beings. I think that the cruel slaughter of seals – we have already seen photos on this, we have already heard very intrusive descriptions about it – does not give a particularly good witness to humanity to some parts of society. All the more important I think it is that we take steps in Austria, and the more fine I find it that we will decide on a five-party request here. I now want to add that the reckless exploitation and pollution of the seas are extremely threatening all marine eco-systems. Industrial over-use, for example by fishing, by oil and gas promotion, by sand and pebble reduction, by shipping, by over-fertilization, by pollution, by seismic tests, but also by aquaculture, leads to acidification, to a lower possibility of CO2 intake by the oceans and to a species dying in the sea. The destructive fishing methods, for example with bottom trawls, are measures that have long been prohibited. And the fishing quotas we have within the European Union are, in any case, far too high for the sustainable exploitation of the oceans. In addition, these quotas are often not respected and exceeded. The oceans are largely empty-fished, and there are mainly unfair fisheries agreements between poor and rich countries. The FAO, the World Food Organisation of the UN, notes, for example, that 70 percent of the economically relevant fishing grounds are either fully exploited or overfished or already exhausted. Even if Austria is an inland country, it is really time to participate in the debate on fishing rights offensively, in accordance with the guidelines, that we want sustainable fishing methods that follow the precautionary principle, that we should discuss the concept of marine protected areas very seriously, and that we may also have to prevent the negative social and economic effects of fishing and that the food sovereignty of those peoples dependent on fishing should be protected. I think the goal can only be a precautionary maritime policy so that the oceans will continue to serve as a source of food for humans in the future, while also serving as a species-rich and healthy habitat for fish, marine mammals, birds, seals and many other living beings. In this sense, I very much welcome the five-party agreement on the protection of seals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17083	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klement. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17105	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! The Freedom Party will, of course, agree to the common request because it will be possible to avoid unnecessary animal suffering. However, I would like to refer to a few general information which has been somewhat lacking in today's debate. The view of the states of Canada and Norway, which has, of course, already been illuminated here in Parliament. The Canadian government has released the hunt for more than one million seals within three years – which results in about 350 000 animals being hunted per year – but in 2007 it has reduced to 270 000 with the argument that there are too few pack ices, so that the propagation of the animals is already at risk. The Canadian Ministry of Fisheries justified the seal hunt with the pretext that this would bring additional income to the East Canadian population and that hunting the seals also prevented cod stocks from continuing to be endangered. It is also said that this species of seal is not at all at all at risk of the fact that, according to the state of science, a maximum stock has already been recorded for 200 years and that an annual hunting quota has already been used to address the problems of hunting the seals. In fact, many fishermen in many parts of the world see the seals as their natural competitors and therefore demand a determination of stocks. In Norway, according to the Norwegian Government, there is a so-called intact resource management. She even mentions eight million saddle seals and folding hats that would live in the North Atlantic, and also says that there is no danger to these animals. It even gives subsidies to these seal hunters and explains this with increasing interest in products such as meat, bacon and seal tar for medical purposes. The legislation and control given in this regard in Norway are very good and detailed in order to ensure that it is true with defined quotas, killing methods, mandatory training for seal hunters and so on. So far as the reasoning of Norway and Canada is concerned. – Now maybe a look at the southern hemisphere. There are also populations of seals on the southern hemisphere – I refer very briefly to Namibia – so we should also briefly address these areas. There are, of course, also problems with uncontrolled hunting, where a decline in the stock of 1.5 million seals, fur seals, is recorded at less than 500 000. The real problem has now been raised by Mrs Bayr, and I should also like to point out that trade alone with these products is not the problem. Trade may be a small part of this solution, but the big problem is in reality the fishing fleets and, of course, the EU fleets. I would like to mention a number of them, Mrs Bayr, which is a number that really scares you: The global catch of 1952 with 20 million tonnes of fish per year went up to 80 million tonnes this year, including these 30 million tonnes of unwanted by-catches of marine animals, including seals. That is, these animals – 30 million tons! – are thrown dead again into the sea as by-catch, which naturally also weakens the populations, and this is also a problem which unfortunately God has not been treated in this overall proposal. But I can't change it or make you do better. The fisheries industry should therefore also be monitored in the EU, and we should look at what to do. The argument from the outset that fisheries represent a necessary income for Canada and the USA is of course also far-reaching. The fact is that 30 000 conventional fishermen on the eastern coast of Canada and also in the USA have lost their jobs by this overfishing. Perhaps a short comparison to the economic values of the seal hunt. The seal hunt is about €15 million a year. In relation to this, the contribution that German holidaymakers make in the area of tourism in Canada alone accounts for well over €250 million. This is, of course, not the case. The arguments that the seal hunt would mean so much for Canada and Norway are not true. The international animal welfare association, International Fund for Animal Welfare, has therefore done a very good job of illuminating these things; they have already been treated by the colleagues here today. One important point we should really do in Austria is: A ban on imports into Austria does not bring much. I personally do not know products made of seal, which are used by us in Austria. Nor does a ban on trade and imports into and out of Europe bring much. The products that come from the seal hunt are proven to be very much in demand in countries such as Russia and China. That means you have to put up there to really change something sustainable. The WTO, of course, also has opportunities here if we do not find a pan-European solution. It would also be good to conclude a legally binding agreement in order to achieve something in the pursuit of seals, hunting, fishing. But what are solvable problems in Austria? – There are, of course, problems in Austria, whose solution we can really address here, and the FPÖ is a party that is strong for animal protection. I am thinking of animal welfare opportunities in animal transport, but I am also thinking of the shaft and of the fact that some things could be done in the area of shafts – first, cut the neck and then stun, which is not necessarily methods that a Central European State is honouring. We could really consider also changing the animal welfare law in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17193	The next speaker is Mr Kainz. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17214	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I am glad that we are today adopting a five-party proposal on the import and trade ban on seal products. At the meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection last Friday, we discussed it in detail and discussed this five-party proposal there. Many of my previous speakers have referred to the details, but I would nevertheless like to use my brief speech to give you a few more facts about this request. Every year, 270,000 animals are laid on the eastern coast of Canada. If the seal hunters were included in the pack this year, fortunately one will not come to this high number of killed animals. But the pictures are known to us, namely, that Robbenkadaver is on white ice, that there are blood laughs to be seen there, and that men with batons hit and kill loyally looking seals babies. Many animals still live when the skin is removed. 98 percent of the seals laid down are between two weeks and three months old. All these brutal facts are also recorded in various veterinary reports, where it is concluded that the commercial seal hunt in Canada results in considerable and unbearable suffering. A second aspect is also very up-to-date, namely that due to climate change the seals babies do not have the necessary pack ice, which also causes thousands to die as they cannot swim after birth. With today's decision, I think we are taking another step and another measure that helps to strengthen the pioneering role of Austria in animal welfare as a whole. Austria has the Federal Animal Protection Act with 1. In January 2005, animal welfare was clearly given priority. However, it is also necessary that, despite the still so strict animal protection, a co-existence and a co-existence between man and animal are possible. This is particularly true in connection with the inhabitants, with the Inuit, who also live on the seal hunt. I am pleased that all the parties in the House agree to this proposal today and that this proposal or decision-making will again lead the way in Europe for the benefit of animals and, so to speak, will decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17263	The next speaker is Mr Steier. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17284	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The basic decision between supporting fashionable vanitys of some less versus bloody animal suffering should actually fall quite easily. We have agreed with God. That is why we are implementing a resolution today which is intended to prevent trade in seal products in Austria. This also makes us internationally in the trend. Germany, Luxembourg, Belgium, France and England have set up similar initiatives. Ladies and gentlemen! Images and reports about the cruel commercial seal hunt have caused pity for years. The hunting practice is still barbaric. Images of slain seals, pictures of young seals to which the fur is removed by living body, shock the public. However, commercial seal hunts take place not only in Canada, but also in Norway, northern Russia and Namibia under these conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, if you look away from the traditional and also permitted hunting of the Inuit, the commercial seal hunt is not justified by anything. She's superfluous. There is no compelling interest in seal products, neither in meat nor in skins. There is therefore also no reasonable reason to be To kill hundreds of thousands of animals in the most cruel way, except – and I mentioned this at the outset – obviously, in order to satisfy the fashionableities of some less in Europe and Asia. Because there, we know, are the main sales markets of these products. General bans on trade are the best way to stop the battle. This has been demonstrated in the past by the European Jungle Directive 1983. At EU level – and I stress at EU level – it is therefore necessary to strengthen activities in the future to ensure that this directive takes effect. In addition to the EU-wide ban on imports and trade for seal products, we also need efficient control mechanisms, namely a special labelling requirement for seal skins processed in clothing, so that the suffering of seals belongs to the past in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17323	The next speaker is Mrs Pepper. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17345	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, you just have to wait and have patience. Nature is a matter of its own. As we have learned from the media, many of the sealsmen's ships have been stuck in the ice. On the one hand, a victory of justice against the senseless slaughter of these defenseless marine mammals. On the other hand, these seal hunters have now felt on their own body what it means to be afraid of his life. And perhaps this helps to make people out of the saved hunters again. Ladies and gentlemen! More than 300 000 young saddle seals, estimated to be around one third of all boys born this year, are brutally killed by the hunters before they reach the age of three months. The Canadian seal hunt is the world's largest hunting for marine mammals, which is still taking place today. It is unacceptable, cruel and is forbidden. I am saving you details of the process of killing these young animals. There can be no talk of human killing, as the Canadian government claims. Studies have shown that 42 percent of the animals were still alive and were probably still conscious when they were skinned. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we must counter the cruel killing in order to end these massacres. The best way would, of course, be if, as many countries as possible, an international trade ban on seal products were to be imposed. Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore good that we in Parliament today decide on this five-party proposal. Thank you very much to the Federal Minister and to you all who are at the heart of animal welfare. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17375	The next speaker was Mr Schopf. Also 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17396	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Personally, too, this request is particularly important, and I would like to point out once again that, as a group, we are also very pleased that all parties are likely to vote in favour of it. It is always pitiful, in records and especially in documents To watch them on television, how seals babies are killed and slaughtered. Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== Unfortunately, the slaughter began on a massive scale in the 20th century. They were sea bears at first, and then they went over to other types of seals. Unfortunately, you are focused on slaughtering seals babies. Especially in Canada, this is very often justified by the argument that this measure must be put in place to protect fish stocks. That's a nonsense, of course, that's a fool. The fact is that fish stocks are actually in danger, but certainly not through these seals, but above all through the high seas of the industrialized states. Ladies and gentlemen! It is new – and this is also not uninteresting – that the American Navy is now trying to dress seals, especially sea lions, and then finally use them in military planning, with the aim of tracking sea mines. Ladies and gentlemen, some facts and figures have already been mentioned. Last year alone, 325,000 young animals were slaughtered in Canada, this year already over 250 000. According to information, products are imported not only by some other countries but also, above all, by the Republic of Austria. There are companies dealing with these topics and with these products especially in the wellness area. We know that there are enough good substitutes. That is why we do not need an import. It must be ended with this horrific measure, with this killing.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17436	The next speaker is Mr Stauber. Also 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17457	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! There are controversial debates in this House over and over again, depending on the party glasses. But today it is very positive that all the speakers here represent a common position, namely the deepest rejection of this seal killing. It is also very nice – and Mrs. Eder-Gitschthaler mentioned this – that the blacks are also for the seals. [[Call the ÖVP:Na, na!]] It's literally been quoted here. Whoever has in mind the images of the cruel slaughter of seals, can hardly doubt that the import ban of corresponding seal products required in this application is simply a command of humanity and not just an act of political goodwill. Skinning animals with a living body to satisfy the commercial interests of Western civilization is simply reprehensible. In this context, however, I am particularly concerned about the highly questionable, indeed inhuman argumentation of official Canada. Because if the Canadian ambassador in Austria speaks seriously about the rapid and, above all, humane killing of the seals in Canada, it is not only I, as a social democrat, will become red and see red in this fact. No question, there are local customs, rites and traditions around the world that are very difficult to reconcile with a humanistic world view and which contradict the principles of modern animal welfare. However, it must not be taken in such a way that, for commercial reasons only, large-scale animals are killed cruelly, neither in seals nor in other animals. We have talked a lot about bans and laws today, but I think that will not be enough, but we must also draw the attention and awareness of consumers around the world so that they can contribute to putting an end to this seal slaughter with their consumer behaviour. Unfortunately, our request will not be able to stop animal suffering from today until tomorrow. However, it is certainly a clear signal that Austria does not participate in all perverted developments in global commercialisation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17491	The next speaker is Mr Muchitsch. Also 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17512	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. Minister! The issue is shocking, the subject raises our awareness, and it is also a subject that is going beyond party boundaries. Today it is necessary to take a step nationally to counter this madness. However, as already announced, our goal must be to become an initiative across Europe. We may be able to raise awareness of Europe, the European Union, worldwide. I would therefore like to thank all the Members who have tabled this request, all the political parties, all the political parties, for their clear opinions, for their actions as to whether the Greens were involved in their action on 19 November. April, whether it was the press releases of the liberals, whether it was the SPÖ with its junior Jörg Leichtfried, who also announced that he wanted to try to reach out in the EU, that EU governments were entering a common line, or whether it was our Environment Minister Josef Pröll, who promised to represent the seal import ban also in the EU. Thank you again to all the parties. Finally, I personally have a great desire: that such images, as we have seen them today, disappear from our television screens. These images of brutal slaughter should have no place in the media world. I think we all here in this room do not want to explain to our children these bloody pictures, this bloody animal suffering. I would therefore like to thank all the parties for this initiative.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17545	The last speaker in this debate was Mr Dobnigg. Also 2 minutes of time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17567	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! All my previous speakers have already pointed very impressively to the horrors of the seal hunt and expressed their displeasure. I can fully endorse their statements. This seal hunt is already alarming for animal protection reasons and now also threatens the preservation of the seal population as a whole. In addition, there is no compelling economic interest in this systematic and huge seal hunt, since there is now a corresponding replacement product for all seal products. I would like to express my particular thanks to the environmental and animal protection activists who have been tirelessly committed for years to the bloody practices of industrial seal slaughter. Through these protests, they have repeatedly brought the world’s public attention to this senseless and horrific slaughter. I would also like to thank the International Animal Protection Fund, which last week, in front of Parliament, carried out the “Robbing in Emergency – Trade Prohibition” protest rally. I am also very grateful to all the parliamentary parties, both in the Committee on the Environment and here in the plenary, for the unanimous decision-making process, or today. In doing so, we all put together a very clear sign and show that we want to be able and willing, but, if only occasionally, to pull on a common strand. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! We simply cannot accept that some countries like Canada or Norway, for example, allow the killing of hundreds of thousands of seals every spring. On the other hand, we and Europe need a clearer language and decisive action. We must not leave these “bloody products” beyond our limits – under quotation marks. I am convinced that this Federal Government will take all necessary steps and measures quickly and decisively to prevent the import, processing and distribution of seal products in Austria. It is particularly important, I think, that we in Brussels take a firm stand to ensure that a valid ban on imports and trade in products of all types of seal is adopted throughout the EU. On the part of the SPÖ, our Federal Government will, of course, receive every possible support.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17609	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. I ask all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to take a seat, because we are coming to the vote. We shall vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 73 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 18.) [[18:46:33]] 4. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Terezija Stoisits, ladies and gentlemen concerning a federal law extending the death penalty in the Criminal Code (141/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17664	We're on the 4th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. I call Mrs Stoisits. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17694	Dobar vecer, poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Dobar then!]] Of course, I have secretly hoped that Mrs. Berger will also come to these first readings, because there is still – Rudi, I am so calm, and he somehow calls in between. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] I have secretly hoped that the Federal Minister will not only come to this first reading, but there will also be other first readings, because in recent years, at least in the last 15 years, this has been an exercise that has been her predecessor and predecessor, Mrs Mag. Gastinger, also so plowed. Minister Michalek, Böhmdorfer and then Mrs Mag. Gastingers are, because it is not too common for there to be first readings from the legal papers, usually came. Maybe she's abroad, I don't know. I don't blame her. I just said I was hoping secretly. But, essentially, my speech is not addressed to the Minister, who broadly agrees with the considerations of the Greens, but my remarks are directed primarily at the Members of the National Council. Those who were already members of the National Council during the last legislative period have already dealt with this, in which case also necessarily, because there was a first reading on a request from the Greens to this matter. We also discussed, ladies and gentlemen of the Committee on Justice, in July or at the end of June last year, the Greens' own-initiative proposal on conditional dismissal. If you remember, especially the colleagues from the then governmental parties, ÖVP and BZF mix, you rejected this request, with arguments that are partly more than worth discussion, with arguments that have already been taken up by the Minister of Justice, in her efforts to address the problem of overcrowded prisons in Austria. First readings are so in themselves that not all of them are happy about what a political group is proposing. That's all too understandable. First readings have the purpose of starting the discussion on thematic content. I would therefore like to briefly explain what we are proposing: On Tuesday 28.2.2007, there was a siege in Austria’s judicial institutions – that is, these technical expressions – of 9 039 prisoners, of whom a little over 2,000 were in detention. This number is Austrian record. There have never been so many prisoners in Austria's judicial institutions before, not even at the time of the reforms in the 1970s and 1980s. The significant increase was in the years from 2001, because between 1988 and 2001, the number of laymen in prisons was always around 7,000 – a little below, a little bit above that. Since 2001, this figure has increased by more than 2,000 prisoners in total. Austria's prisons are not only burdened and fully occupied – as it is called in the professional language – they are overburdened. This can be seen from the example of the Josefstadt Justice Centre. And this is a really serious fact, because overcrowded prisons are simple and simply dangerous – not only for the inmates, but also, above all, for the environment, they also speak for the general public, because the aggression potential and the dangers that result simply potentiate. A detention centre is generally considered to be fully occupied at 85 to 90 percent. The Josefstadt Judicial Institute would have a 100 percent population of 990 prisoners, but it had a population of 1,186 prisoners on the date of the submission of this initiative. So this is more than a clear overcrowding. - That's an aspect. The second aspect of why something has to be done on a legal level against the overlaid “häf’n” is the fact that the relationship – and certainly Otto Pendl will still talk about it when he is said to speak – between officials in judicial institutions and prisoners has been radically missing: namely, from a ratio 2 : 1 earlier to a ratio of almost 3 : 1 today. Something can't be right there! Even though I am now considering – and we are going to discuss this again tomorrow – that staff will now increase through this new budget, this is only a weak means of reducing what has been built up over the years. Second important information to colleagues, why an initiative on a new legal regime for conditional redundancies: In Austria, 20 percent of prisoners are released due to this. In comparison – and one cannot compare apples with pears now, but systems that have a similar legal situation, legal culture and legal tradition, such as Germany and Switzerland – I would like to mention to you the 20 percent in Austria: 50 percent redundancies, and in Switzerland: 92% due to redundancies. That is why it is also important to know, so that not a march is built here, that those who work for more conditional redundancies risk, for example, uncertainty in the population or less security in the population. In the case of 92 per cent redundancies in Switzerland, this would mean that every Swiss person will fall apart if he withdraws from the door when 92 per cent of the people who are in prison are released. Now we need to know that people who are sentenced to less than three months in prison or are partially sentenced do not even fall under the current regime of conditional dismissal. However, my main argument and our main argument for a new legal regime is the following: Someone who takes his punishment until the last day – and that is, as you hear, 80 per cent of the prisoners in Austria – can do no justice in the world, or no court of Austria in the case, any kind of edition or anything, any kind of – let's say it in the broadest sense – monitor the way, because he has eaten his punishment. I think that – and I say that out of deep conviction – is wrong. Then: Prisoners – and if they have committed the most serious crimes – who are set free at the end of their so-called prisoner career, have cancelled their punishment and stand alone and in nothing. In my opinion, this is not good for society, nor is it good for the individual, namely the former prisoners affected by it. Therefore, one of the main arguments for a re-regulation of the conditional dismissal – which would be said to be: due dismissal after two thirds of the fine, in principle for all, without taking into account the general prevention, which is not available in Germany and Switzerland, in the case of fines of two thirds of the penalty: It is also possible to have conditions. There should be exceptions to this principle only for those who have an increased risk of relapse to serious acts of violence or public offences. However, exceptions confirm the rule in this case. The rule should be the conditional dismissal. Even in those cases where there are serious reasons not to be released after two-thirds, the law should be designed in such a way as to ensure that, even in the case of specific risk groups, redundancies have to be made at the latest after five sixths of the penalty, so that assistance and support can be provided through probation aid and similar facilities and, in the case of the conditions, must also be provided. Only particularly serious reasons can lead to the exclusion of this conditional dismissal. Ladies and gentlemen – the red light here is no longer just flashing, it is already shining, and I do not want to tell the colleagues of the Greens who speak at other first readings about time: These are essentially outlined in the framework of the Greens' own-initiative proposal. I am already looking forward to the discussion today and to the discussion in the Committee on Justice which will follow, because believe me – or trust me You're me! –: In Switzerland and Germany, society in general and politics in particular have done well with provisions of conditional redundancies without general prevention, due to redundancies after two thirds of the penalty. I would like us to come to an average value between Switzerland and Germany in Austria – so we say around 60 percent, if it is 92 percent in one case and 50 percent in the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17742	The next speaker is Mr Pendl. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17764	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am pleased that we have had so much commitment in the Committee on Budgets in recent weeks and months. I can thank you, Mr Stoisits, for the fact that this is back on the agenda. I would like to invite everyone to think about the perspective of inmates if there is no chance of conditional dismissal. It is not only necessary in international and European comparison, but also: What do you think it would look like in the institutions if you couldn't give an inmate a chance – not even a theoretical one – to get on the way? [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek is again presiding over.]] I think we have the most difficult situation in the history of the Austrian execution of punishment at the moment – Mr Stoisits has done this. That's not a question at all. I invite everyone who often argues so loosely and partly populistly: Look at what it looks like in the Austrian execution agencies! There would be a lot to discuss. I hope that we can also count on the initiatives of the Federal Government and the Minister of Justice in the interests of humanity. And, ladies and gentlemen, Let us not forget, it is our public servants who are holding our heads for us here and for the Austrians! Thank them at least and help them too! – You have to say that in all clarity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I say, dear Teresa, we have to watch out for one thing: We must, when we discuss the conditional dismissal – I fully share your opinion, your approach – also consider the course of the current conditional dismissal. It has not proved appropriate that the heads of the institution, with their team, decide on the temporary release, that inmates have come into the so-called discharge and that a decision has been taken elsewhere, namely by the executing court, on whether the prisoner will be released or not. I said that at the time, years ago, when this was introduced: It is better for me to decide on the temporary dismissal of the court, or we come to a new arrangement, because otherwise it is not in the interest of the prisoner. And I know what a difficult situation is about our colleagues, who always have to decide in advance, not knowing what the court will really do for some time later. I am really interested that we are interested in this so important topic – I say quite openly! – discuss the security of our Republic as well. I always say in criminal proceedings that there is an internal and external security. I am sure that I mean our citizens. When we look at the structure of our institutions – and Mrs. Minister only said it in the Budget Committee that we do not even have the staff that we can securely open up detention rooms – it shows how difficult the current situation is. And I believe that it is only with the incarceration, ladies and gentlemen – without perspective, without taking up the prisoners without perhaps being able to work on the therapy and social areas – that much money spent for the execution of the sentence is perhaps not used properly. I look forward to a constructive debate in the Committee on Justice and hope that we can not only draw up good proposals but also implement them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17824	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17845	Madam President, My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The discussion, I believe, is correct and important – including a reform of conditional redundancies. I can also give you, dear Terezija, Mrs Colleague, that the number of arrests, the amount of lay-backs, has increased to a great extent. However, I believe that the causes should first be taken first and not, so to speak, immediately follow suit. On the one hand, causes can be – and I believe so – that simply better information takes place, that is more efficient, and that, of course, on the other hand, there is a corresponding increase in the number of lay-backs in the judicial institutions. First of all – I believe – it is once again a success of the Minister of the Interior for Enlightenment, the persecution of offenders, and, of course, the success of the colleagues of our executives who are on their way day and night to lay down the craftsmanship. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, that is, the increased numbers of prisoners are, of course, a problem, but in principle also a solution to another problem in front of us. In my opinion, this is a little wrong with the approach of the Greens, the colleague Stoisits, always saying: "Open doors", then the layers are lower! – That, I believe, cannot be the only answer Let me say something about this problem. This must also be taken into account in this discussion. An answer can be – and I think we give it in the budget for the years 2007 and 2008, which we are discussing in the next few days –: More money, more staff also for the judicial institutions. 150 guards more in 2007, over 12 percent, almost 13 percent more budget in the field of judicial institutions in 2007 is an important and correct response to larger and increased numbers of prisoners. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, as mentioned at the outset, the discussion on the instrument of conditional dismissal is also important. We will also be happy to hold this discussion together in the Committee on Justice, but it is also important for us to stress certain key points from the outset. I thought it was a false signal to introduce an almost automatic one here: conditional dismissal, required by law after a certain duration. I think that's the wrong answer. The imposition of penalties and also the imposition of partial penalties and, at present, the criminality of a part of the penalty should be the case of independent judges. This should continue to be the decision, and there should be no automatic provision here. It should not be overlooked that this could also have to be the consequence that, if the courts know that after two thirds of the duration will at least be released, they will simply adjust the level of punishment in such a way that they say that the penalty should be so long to ensure that a certain duration is actually spent. – We do not want that, I believe, but it should be an answer that is given flexibly in individual cases by the courts. What bothered me a little bit, Mrs Stoisits, was, of course, this comparison. In my opinion, looking at the comparison with Germany and Switzerland in isolation with the conditional redundancies is wrong and is too short. If you compare, you also need to see how the partial penalties are imposed in comparison with the various countries, and finally how the recovery rates and crime as a whole have developed and developed in the various countries. I think only a total comparison can give a realistic picture here to offer a solution. In conclusion: We will be happy to hold this discussion. I am excited about a constructive discussion, and I am convinced that there will, of course, also be improvements in the system of conditional redundancies, which we can also implement together.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17913	Mr Klubobmann is speaking next time. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e17934	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The demand for early redundancies of criminals is quite one in times like this, in view of which many citizens in Austria have the right to get their heads off. Strongly increasing crime numbers, an incredible development in the area of crime, where in some areas – in Vienna, for example – we have to experience plus 30 percent in road robbery, where citizens are simply afraid to go on the road, and that the chance is quite high to be able to become victims themselves. In Vienna we experience an increase of 30 percent in the robbery of banks and post offices. We experience a situation in Vienna where 450 apartments are broken into each day – that is, incredible numbers! And then you go here and say, We have increasing crime, which is why we have overcrowded detention facilities – and that is why we need to ensure that we solve the problem of rising crime, increasing crime with more prisoners to get rid of them at an early stage. What is this approach? What kind of security policy is that? How can the citizen still understand this if one has such abject ideas? We should ensure that we ensure that we invest in sufficient detention rooms, in sufficient personnel, which is ultimately also suffering, because there are not sufficient officials in this area, in the area of enforcement. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But no, one makes the excuse in terms of reducing the number of prisoners, towards early conditional redundancies. And if you look at the numbers, you see: In 2005, 45 691 people were sentenced in Austria. 22 402 persons were pre-punished, say no unknowns, no perpetrators who first committed an act and were carried on – no, pre-punished! We also have 11,533 people who have been sentenced, who have even had more than three pre-punities – that is, certainly perpetrators, where they are clearly recognized: They're not first-class culprits, they're perpetrators who commit crimes all the time. And here you want to make people aware of the early release that this can contribute to greater security? – Certainly not! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The opposite will be the case: They will have the opportunity to return to the field of burglary, robbery and others. And that's exactly this negative signal effect: If today criminals and groups of perpetrators know that they really don't really have great things to fear, and if they know that after they're fined by at least half of their prison sentence they've received, they might be able to expect a conditional release, then please, almost an invitation to the organized crime that this can calculate. This is simply irresponsible if you do so! Of 7,136 people sentenced to a mandatory prison sentence, 6,055 were prepunished! On the basis of this comparative sum, we see what we are talking about here. I sometimes have the impression that some of those who make demands here, like the Stoisits, do not know what they are talking about! Or – even worse –: If Member Stoisits knows what she is talking about, she is actually much more irresponsible – and that is something we rightly say, so that she is in no way suitable as a popular lawyer. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In 2006, there were 13 000 arrests. At least 4,857 people had already had a prison sentence. – All these figures show what it is about: In recent years, we have had to experience a savings in the execution of the sentence, and now we are going here and trying – instead of putting investment measures there – to make proposals exactly in the wrong area. You just have to condemn that! And if Mrs. Berger explains in an interview that the budget and staff negotiations concluded only have small contributions to relaxation, we should finally see that we are coming down with the numbers of prisoners, then that can't be the final conclusion of wisdom, but is really cockbled. And when you look at what that is for plans – extending the conditional dismissal, house arrest instead of short prison sentences and U-port, easier conversion of prison sentences into fines, changing the crime situation of the trade union. Equality and a change to the Amnesty Act – then you have to say that is certainly not what the citizens in our country imagine. That is why we cannot support these plans. One can only take action against it if one stands for security. And if you're safe – and that's a citizen's right! – also wants to guarantee citizens in our country, then one must ensure that criminals also have to expect to receive severe prison sentences and that they usually have them to end up, so that crime is not a pleasure, and thus crime is not rewarded with an early release. That's our approach. Our approach is to protect the population and at last to ensure that there are adequate detention rooms, to train and recruit sufficient personnel, so that it does not come to such irresponsible conditions as today. I've only recently looked at a detention centre again, namely in Simmering. It was very interesting to experience that too. Of course, there is also a stricter execution and a relaxed execution within the detention centre, and of course the relaxed execution makes sense. That makes sense – but in the detention centre, he should go away, he should be controlled! It can be, please, really not the approach that you can handle this as some of the best have been given here today, that you simply go to early dismissal. Of course you should not forget that almost 50 percent of all prisoners in Austria are non-Austrian! You shouldn't forget that either! If you already have these figures, then you should continue the thought that was reasonably thought of by a former Minister of Justice, namely to ensure that, if foreign criminals are sentenced in our home country, they will then have to place the prison sentence in their home country – and ultimately save our state and our taxpayers a lot, and then these foreign prisoners will have to pay off their prison sentence at home, which, of course, is also beneficial for their further development, because they have access to their families or their families to them, and that would certainly be reasonable in the interests of all concerned. – Such things should be remembered! If I then have to hear here or find that one has also stated here that in the future social workers and psychologists want to be more involved in a conditional early release, then this is absolutely unacceptable from the point of view of the liberals, because that is certainly not the area that has such a decision to make. This must remain a question of the courts, and only a question of the independent courts in Austria, and must not become a question of social workers and psychologists who may then give or represent any private opinions for the best. In conclusion, we from the Freedom Party note that, when assessing the budget in general, one must establish one thing: Radical wrong budgetary developments in the security field – not only in the area of criminal execution, but in general. Since 1997 until today, we have had 3,000 executive officers in Austria less, although one has known that there is an enlargement of the East, although one has known that this will necessarily lead to more crime. Instead of recruiting more executive officials, one has also done a balding there and saved it. And this budget continues there: Further personnel savings, further savings in overtime! – That’s exactly the point, and in this area the ÖVP together with Social Democracy unfortunately with God. Insecurity is created, and I say: If you continue to do so, we will soon have American conditions in Austria – and we certainly do not want to do so, and against that we will take action.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18048	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Darmann in word. He made a speech time of 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18070	Madam President. Estimated High House – or what is left of it now! In the debate about extending the conditional detention in the course of the prison relief package of the Federal Minister Berger, it was only a matter of time that a cry by the green colleagues to support the minister after open prisons would be carried out by the glaring halls of this House. I have not had the pleasure of having a brief discussion in the “cib” with the esteemed colleague Stoisits before, exactly on this issue. She knows. – Please correct me if I am wrong now in a nuclear statement that you represented at the time and have repeated here in general today. Col. Stoisits, your core statement was like today: You have been concerned about the safety of prisoners in connection with the accommodation – due to the bad housing conditions. You also liked me when I then represented our side and said that for us the safety of the population is more important and not necessarily – but not forward-lookingly – the safety of the inmates. To a certain extent, I could have been right in our discussion at the time, namely that there is something really – and this is our basic idea that unites us – to change in the prisons, namely as far as the accommodation forms are currently concerned, especially with regard to the fact that the prisons are immeasurably overcrowded. But, as I said, only this basic idea is one of ours. However, the way we then go to achieve the goal of improving the conditions in the detention centres is one really different between green and orange. In the meantime, we are familiar with all those who deal with this subject, which is a terrifyingly high number of prisoners in the Austrian detention centre. We have heard it today: 8 650 prisons; since this year constantly over 9 100 prisoners. 15 percent of the reserve would be necessary. So we already have about 1 300 prisoners too much, and in the course of a development like in recent months – there has been this even in recent years – a prisoner surplus of 2 500 compared to the 8 650 prisons will probably be recorded by the year 2008 – that is, a really high surplus that will somehow be under control, but certainly not with these efforts to simply set the prisoners on a free footing. Our approach, that of the BZÖ, is not that of the Green – that is clear – and the Minister of Justice, taking the criminals out of the cells across the vegetable garden to have cozy cells, and at the same time endangering the population. If it has become too narrow in the cells due to the rising numbers of crime in January, February, March of this year, and the numbers of prisoners themselves, not least in order to be prepared for the future, we must take money into our hands and provide for further detention rooms in the future. Again: The trend – by 2008 around 2,500 prisoners more than existing detentions. And if the new detention centre in Vienna will just cover 350 detentions, and this only in 2009/2010, I wonder: Where's the rest? – If the development continues this way and a project of a detention centre takes several years in its implementation, then these projects really need to be started now. In addition, we also call for additional posts for the judicial guards. We now have a high level in 2007, I admit, but if we compare 2008 with the figures from 2005, then in 2008 we have just 14 more judicial guards than in 2005 – and with these increasing crime and detention figures, that is really too little. That means that money belongs here, too. As regards the demands of the Greens in detail, it should be noted that the general intention of two-thirds of the sentenced sentence is to release convicted offenders after 15 years of life, and this will only be without any support from the BZÖ on the grounds of a crisis in prison execution, from our side. See § 46 para. 2 StGB of the draft of the Greens I ask colleagues about the Greens, as it is now quite precisely meant. Your draft reads: ‘If a criminal has committed two thirds of the time sentence imposed in judgment or in the course of his grace, but at least three months, he shall be subject to the rest of the penalty, determined by a trial period, unless specific reasons cause him to be feared that the offender will commit serious violent crimes or common-risk crimes in freedom.’ By the way, the same wording is also in § 46 para. 3 and also in § 46 para. 5 to be found. I'm asking: How is that meant by “heavy ”? What does the Greens think that the release of a violent criminal is no longer reasonable to the population? What about minor violent crimes? Such offenders are very likely to be released if there is a slight crime of violence to be feared? – So it really can’t be! That is why we are from the BZÖ against this automatic system planned by the Greens for these conditional redundancies, but very likely for a continuation of the judicial individual decision. We from the BZÖ are also for the continuation of trials with the shackles and non-profit work instead of a replacement sentence – this can really help us in connection with the overcrowded prisons. And we from the BZÖ – and this, please, Terezija Stoisits, for you as information – are for a human rights-compliant revision of the discharge towards the possibility of being able to impose various control measures and conditions on non-conditional prisoners. That means we can discuss this. We will probably not be able to discuss the request made by you, as he is here, in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18109	The next speaker was Mr Köfer. He's been talking for 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18131	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! This sensitive theme would probably have deserved more presence. However, no one here in the house has remained hidden that the Austrian execution is in a crisis. We have already heard from Mrs Stoisits that in 1989 there was still a historical low level of inmates, namely in about 6,000, and this increased dramatically since 2001. Today – and we have heard this many times today – we can register as an exact number of 9,093 people who are in prisons in Austria as of March 2007. The reason for this is, on the one hand, security populist slogans and, on the other hand, the reconstruction of the Austrian social state. [[Abg. Strache: That we have such a high number of prisoners is a return to populist slogans?- Oh, my God!]] - Yes! [[Abg. Strache: You don't realize there's more crimes? You want to abdicate that?]] Mr Strache, on the one hand. On the other hand, I have said that the reconstruction of the Austrian social state and the lack of integration of marginal groups will also be a reason for this. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] If you compare the international prison rate, it can be found that in the United States, 738 prisoners are currently kept per 100 000 inhabitants in institutions. How does it look in Europe? – In Finland it is currently 75, in Switzerland it is 83, in the Federal Republic of Germany still 93, and in Austria we have reached a record mark of 105 prisoners to 100 000 Austrian residents. At Linz University, there are leading criminal law experts who take the view that early arrests should be justified – and that on the grounds that the resulting risk of relapses is reasonable. However, Mr. Scientists also note that early discharges of perpetrators are less frequent. But you see the cause of this primarily in the right selection of these offenders by the courts. [[Abg. Street: Jack Unterweger, for example!]] [[Abg. Grill: He doesn't know him!]] - I'm from this metier. [[Abg. Grill: From the underway?- Oh, my God!]] Jack Unterweger! Such an assessment from the chair and from the scientists is legitimate, but remains problematic. And one thing, I think, stays with everyone here in the house undisputed: In the case of violent and sexual offenders, more stringent standards must be applied than is the case with perpetrators of property offences. Of course, every party in Parliament has a different access to this issue: On the one hand, the BZÖ wants to realize more prisons in the form of expanded barracks, and the Green Group wants to change the § 46 StGB significantly in favour of prisoners. – For us Social Democrats, there is no black or white on this issue, but once again we are trying to act with a healthy eye and with a high degree of responsibility. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Rather, it is important to clarify – and I think this approach is a good one – whether prisoners should not be given the opportunity to return to their lives in good conduct and in good conditions. It's usually not a single-sicksale, but men and women are waiting at home, the children and the parents are at home – people for whom their lives have completely changed with the condemnation of the family. But there is also a reflective response from the critics to early dismissal: Yes, the offender should have thought that much earlier! - You're right, just: In many cases today, economic and, above all, social conditions force someone to do something that he would not have done under normal circumstances. And it also makes a difference whether someone is armed with a toy gun or enters a bank with a sharply charged gun. – The law hardly recognises a noticeable difference in this. Our judges usually judge and condemn with feeling and with competence, applying the applicable laws according to point and indent. But we, the Members of this House, are responsible for the laws in force, and we cannot press ahead with this responsibility either. Therefore, all of us remain to wish that our joint, well-intentioned decisions will have a positive impact on those concerned and society. But we must also be aware that any judicial error on this issue can lead to fatal consequences for so many citizens. Therefore, may not our faith in the good in man be disappointed very often in this question.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18226	Mr Aspöck has been mentioned as the next speaker. He made a speech time of 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18248	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I can actually connect seamlessly to the statements of my clubman. First of all, however, a small prestress: In preparing this issue – because I have already expected the arguments that were to be expected, just as they were presented, and have been put forward in the request – I have actually asked a question: Are we already so far in our society that you have to have completely abstract thoughts to be Schickimicki? [[Call to the ÖVP: That's the way it goes!]] That's honestly the question, because: The prisons are full of never-ending, and this at a catastrophic reconnaissance rate on the part of our executive, who, of course – that is to say, can't do anything for that which has been starved for years. [[Abg. That's how it is! 37 percent Enlightenment rate we have!]] And yet, the “hooks ” are terribly overcrowded! Now comes the paradox: Our prisons are overcrowded – now we send the Gauners home and let them walk around freely! – This is the paradox in this society, my colleague. [[Call: The criminals are free to run around because the crimes are not resolved]] [[Abg. That's the background!]] That's the background. Let's send her home! – I would also like to talk about it, Mrs Colleague. [[Further call.]] We can react differently to such a situation, as the Greens, for example, did with this request by Mr Stoisits. They forcefully require that after two thirds of the prisoner's imprisonment is to be sent home. That's why it's actually clear: If he gets three years, he needs only two years to sit down; only in very special exceptional cases should this be different. If such law is to be, ladies and gentlemen – and now very seriously – then the following consequences are logical: It's running, I've already said that, logically, more gauners are walking around on a free footing in our society. Second consequence: At least we needed a much stronger and not starved executive to protect the people of our country from these freely running lawbreakers, because then again and again these modern criminal law discussions are forgotten: It is not primarily about the protection of the perpetrator – it is about the protection of the victims, about the protection of the population! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Sounds.]] Third Consequence: Such a law would also undermine the independence of the case law with its mandatory legal provisions. Mr Van der ÖVP has made a brief cut: How should the judges react? – Well, they say: I want to be three years, three years, so I have to give four and a half years. Or, the other says: I'm bending this diktat. – No, ladies and gentlemen, I don’t think you should put the judges in the crafts here somewhere. It should be left to this area of free and independent jurisprudence. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Such a system with mandatory provisions on early release would actually call into question our current system of criminal law, as you have seen from these statements, ladies and gentlemen. It has its good reason and is also a proven tradition that the legislator lays down criminal frameworks in our Republic and, on the basis of the individual case, decides on the actual level of punishment – and not politics! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] All the points listed, ladies and gentlemen, are unacceptable. It is not only because of the fact that the place in prison is becoming scarce, that the criminal framework is forced to reduce or that the penalties are abolished at all more or less. This dream, Mrs von der ÖVP, has already been dreamed of in this Republic, and in view of the realities he has been finally dreamed of. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18343	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment 141/A to the Committee on Justice. [[19:33:44]] 5. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Ulrike Lunacek, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the victims of the anti-homosexual special criminal law are amnested, rehabilitated and compensated (Amnesty, Rehabilitation and Compensation Act AREG) (151/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18382	We reach the 5th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. I call Mrs Lunacek. I'll give it to her with this. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18410	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! A topic has been working on us here in this House for years now, That is to say, discrimination against lesbian women and gay men. Some of you, who have not been in this House for so long, may have forgotten – and this is no longer present in the public – that by 2002 in this country there was the criminal prosecution of gay men for sexual acts that were not punishable by heterosexual men and women and by lesbian women, namely for relations, sexual acts with 14 to 18-year-olds. As I said, this was for gay men, but not for heterosexual men and women, and not for lesbian women. In 2002, first the European Court of Human Rights and then also the Austrian Constitutional Court repealed this law as unlawful and discriminatory in human rights. Luckily, since then, there have been no criminal and discriminatory laws on homosexuals alone in this country. The fact is that in relation to those men who – many of them – were illegally imprisoned in prison, for example, who lost their existence, who lost the job, because it occurred that things that might not then be so serious, but still have lost life-affecting and depressing things like the driver's license, commercial rights and various other things, apart from being in prison, are of the opinion that it is necessary to decide here also a law that requires both the rehabilitation of these people and financial compensation for suffered suffering by these illegal laws. There were in Austria until 1971, continued since the beginning of the Second Republic, the total ban on adult lesbian women and gay men to live these relationships. Several thousand, estimated at 15,000, have been sentenced to prison from 1945 to 1971. These persons have never experienced any of the Republic's excuses, have never experienced such a thing as rehabilitation or actually received compensation. For example, when I speak of rehabilitation, it is a question of losing time for the pension due to the loss of freedom of residence and never being given back to them. These are some of the examples that we have tabled this bill, which we call AREG, i.e. amnesty, rehabilitation and compensation law. At the beginning, this bill also contains a general condemnation of all forms of discrimination, animosity and violence against homosexual and bisexual women and men, and it also contains a pass that states that the National Council regrets that homosexual and bisexual women and men have suffered severe persecution in the past and are still facing discrimination today. A second point, which is so to speak as an introduction to this law, is that we would say that the National Council also regrets that the Special Criminal Law, which has just brought lesbian and gay acts under punishment among adults, according to the Criminal Law of 1852 – let yourself be broken on the tongue: from 1852! – continued to be in force at the beginning of the Second Republic and until 1971 the legislation of a free Austria, which, as has been said, violated several thousand citizens in their human dignity. In our view, these require rehabilitation and compensation, and this official recognition must also be expressed. As regards § 209 StGB, which was withdrawn five years ago, amnesty internationally at the time when there were still prisoners under this rule, it adopted it as a prisoner of conscience and in the annual report 2005 also demanded the rehabilitation and compensation of all victims of § 209 StGB. Amnesty international – a well-respected organization, if some of you may not take away from me that there were indeed human rights violations. What do we want with this law? – As has already been said, on the one hand, an excuse from the Republic, a regret that there have been these injuries, but on the other hand quite specific measures. First of all, let me say what is the background to what the European Court of Human Rights has already decided. In the past, Austria has several times condemned him for the years of criminal prosecution of homosexual and bisexual men on the basis of § 209. In 2003, there were two convictions, three convictions in 2005 and a conviction in 2006. Overall, these compensation amounts, which the Republic had to pay under the non-existent compensation law, account for approximately €200 000. So it is not a lappaly – why and with what amounts these people were compensated for. One point to make this clear is the following: Some of these individuals were condemned not only for § 209, but also for other – then – violations of laws. The application clearly provides that people who have been sentenced to a more stringent and still valid law are not to receive compensation, but are entitled to carry out a roll-out of the procedure. A new procedure is to be started because the homosexual criminal act is no longer present and this also gives the chance that the judgment will be milder. A point that is also important: In the past – inspired by the former National Council President and current President Fischer and by the former Minister of Justice Gastinger – there has been a eradication of convictions based on § 209 StGB. That is right and good, but a problem still is that a eradication alone does not eliminate the adverse legal effects and all the consequences. That means that what is necessary is not just the eradication, but the actual abolition of these judgments. Why? – It is true that the eradication may exist, but if the judgment has not been repealed, it can continue to be used in other jurisdictions outside of criminal law and be intensified, for example in the withdrawal of a driver’s license, for example, when it comes to the issue of the right of foreigners or even when it comes to the award of citizenship. So it can still be effective today, although there is no longer this law and although it is clear that this law was illegal to human rights. That is why we are calling not only for the eradication, but also for the withdrawal of these convictions. Another area is that in some acts of violence, when they have been committed in the homosexual context, they are much higher than in the case of heterosexual acts of violence. Here we demand that these procedures can also be re-rolled and that the homosexual perpetrators be treated as heterosexual perpetrators. On the point of financial compensation: There is no general provision in the Austrian legal system for compensation for damages resulting from legislative injustice. That is why we are voting against the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights and we are calling for them to be taken by the European Court of Human Rights. the European Court of Human Rights. Persons who are sentenced for at least equally serious other offences should not be entitled to compensation for personal impairments suffered by the convictions, but very probably a right to compensation for that part of the withdrawal of personal freedom in respect of which there has been damage to property, such as the loss of the workplace. We have tried to assess very differentiatedly and to show that in the field of condemnation on the grounds of homosexuality a part of criminal law was wrong, but that, of course, convictions of other acts of violence should not be removed – quite clearly. I would like to ask you to study this draft law carefully and to contribute to the fact that victims of illegal and illegal laws experience compensation and rehabilitation at a late stage. I think these people deserved this because of all the indifference and suffering they have experienced. I hope you will agree to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18497	I call Mr Jarolim. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18518	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Lunacek, the SPÖ supports this initiative. We also believe that we must deal with this issue of special criminal law and convictions. The question is how best to deal with it, because the question of an amnesty is one thing, the lifting of the crimes – retroactively – is something else. However, if you look back at the history of § 209 StGB, which was illegal to human rights, which has also been pointed out in the country for many years, and which has only been abolished after many years – more or less almost unique in Europe – then you can also see with what persistence you have to expect here and how important it is to act accordingly early. Of course, it is also unacceptable that convictions for a special criminal law, which was illegal and illegal, are still taken into account in the sense of a pre-punity. There must be a change here. I would also like to draw attention to the efforts of President Fischer in 2005, who has tried to propose mercilessly eradications. That's just a scaffolding. These mean that the penalty is subsequently suspended, but the offence as such is deemed to be committed. If you look at the crime or the qualifications, there is exactly the approach: There should never have been any such criminal offences at all. Maybe just briefly a hint of the technique. When we say, The National Council regrets!, then, Mrs Colleague, I believe, on the one hand, that not only the National Council, but probably the Federal Council will also decide on this law. The fact that I am “pity” – I am now saying this as a legal positive – is to be written into the law, so that I am a bit difficult, because I believe that what is underlying the relevant standard and what the motivation and the trigger are, should not be in the text of the law, but very well in the explanatory remarks and in the other materials. That's why I'd go. In this respect, we are consistently maintaining the law-making system. In any case, we support this initiative, and I am looking forward to the discussions in the Committee. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18558	The next item is Mrs Fuhrmann's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18579	Madam President. High house! I believe that we can already say – and I believe that in principle – that all the parties represented in the House are opposed to any kind of discrimination against homosexuals or bisexuals. This is neither an abnormal nor a diseased thing, nor something to be treated, but rather the reality, assuming that all parties are confessing to it. - That's what we're going to do. A second comment before responding to the request: I believe that it is also deliberately formulated in this way – and I have understood Mrs Lunacek too – that the crimes committed before 1945, which were homosexual people, have not been included in the request, because we also assume that every murder, any humiliation, any torture of homosexuals during the Nazi period, must be rejected and strongly condemned. However, what Mrs Lunacek is proposing today is something that the ÖVP considers to be correct and supportive. But what we have a problem with is the formulation is that you stand for a kind of general amnesty. § 209 StGB, which fell in the summer of 2005, or the acts which have also been welcomed, have not happened as a general amnesty, but rather as individual examination procedures have been decided here, or have we agreed to do so. I believe that this would be the more sensible way to take further steps in this case too. One thing has to be said about the practice of living: that it is – and that is what the law in force in Austria also provides – currently living practice in order not to carry out any general amnesty here. The Austrian legal system also has no general provisions for compensation for damages caused by legislative injustice. This law, as you have suggested here, would actually be a break with the practice so far. I therefore believe that the discussion should continue in the sense of the matter, but the process of how to meet people in order to come to their apologies or to their compensation should be different, and perhaps a discussion should also be held in the Committee. Questionnaires would also be the costs associated with them. You write here that the taxpayer has to pay 100 percent for it. The question arises whether this is actually justified from the Parliament's point of view. These two points we would ask to discuss once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18625	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Fichtenbauer. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18657	Mr Jarolim, if you allow me to have a different position on the right-wing theory. The eradication is not a provisional liberation... – I am a polite person. [[Abg. Neugebauer: Why does Jarolim have to allow this?]] This is a purely semantic form of my skeptical assessment of his statements, but that is a style question. ‘Tills’ means complete removal of the legal consequences that have been subject to judicial jurisdiction. In that respect, the proceedings of the eradication are not of any value, and eradication is aimed at the elimination of a judgment. That's not really discutable. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: It's too little!]] Now we are in the aim of a general amnesty, as mentioned by the representative of the ÖVP. That's where I have to say: A white general amnesty of acts that have led to a judgment which may well have had some mixed forms of action, but which we know nothing about today – for example, whether forced or exploited a superior or subordinate relationship may have existed – would again discriminate against others who have been rightly condemned for similar acts, and not at all on a homosexual level. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] The point is: We are extremely skeptical about considering such a general amnesty. There is no objection at all to taking up and eradicating forms of discrimination, whose prevention today constitutes an incontrovertible part of the legal culture. It is, however, very important to warn against a reverse correction due to changes in social conditions, not to mention compensation payments. Criminal law is the current – and I add: in democratically legitimate Ways achieved – legal structuring. The fact that this is happening from time to time, from time to time, is one thing. An example: Years, decades, so for a very long time, the crime of the negligent Krida was one that broke in like the Amen in prayer about people who are economically ill. There were very formalized cases in which a convict could not do anything for it; for example, if he has delegated his accounts and it was part of the catalogue of acts that the accounts did not vote. This case has been abolished. The negligent Krida as such no longer exists. It has replaced the grossly negligent impairment of creditor interests. If I consistently continue to think about this approach, then all those who have ever been sentenced for negligent Krida should now be able to take up and say: Wait, how do we get to be discriminated against? – We also demand general amnesty, compensation and so on and so on. Summary: It is probably right that anti-discrimination measures should be properly implemented. It is absolutely unacceptable – which Jarolim has also said – that general things, which should be received somewhere away from the positive legal text, should also be remembered. This is similar to that of the dear God in the Constitution. The draft before us will probably not be suitable for obtaining our approval in the Committee on Justice. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18714	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Darmann. Voluntary limit on speaking time: 5 minutes; The Group's remaining speaking time: 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18735	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! - We'll be pretty much the same as before. I can inform colleagues from the Greens of their request that this proposal is practical already in the last legislative period – do I hear badly? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: (in terms of the speaker's mouth) A little deeper!]] That can't be true! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: It's too high!]] – introduced at the same time, dealt with in the Committee and rejected by all political groups, except the Greens. It has already been heard that the SPÖ will now support this request, but, as has already been said, there has already been this request. However, I would also like to point out that I can fully subscribe to the first sentence of the first paragraph of section 1, which reads as follows: “§ 1. (1) The National Council condemns any form of discrimination, animosity and violence against homosexual and bisexual women and men.’ I think it will be the majority, perhaps even – desirable – of all here in this room, so that they can sign it. But now on the proposal in general. – As said, already in September 2005 You submit an application pursuant to § 27 of the Rules of Procedure concerning a federal law with which the victims of the antihomosexual special criminal law are amnesty, rehabilitated and compensated. This favours, like today's, all convictions following the total ban on homosexuality and the repealed § 209 StGB regarding the age of protection – whether the crimes are still punishable in accordance with the successor provisions of § 207b StGB. That is why he was rejected by us at the time. In detail, the Greens would have favoured not only those who have been homosexual among adults – i.e. the total ban – or as adults had a sexual relationship with a youth – as regards the age of protection now – but also those who, according to § 207b StGB, used the lack of maturity or the forced situation of a person under 16 years of age for sexual acts or paid a person under 18 years of age for sexual acts, e.g. clients of a stroke. These persons, the latter two groups of persons, would receive the following benefits according to your draft law: a condemnation of this discrimination by the National Council, a remorse to the maintenance of the sanctions on equal sex acts by the National Council, the eradication of convictions and damages for all convictions and other judicial or administrative measures, but at least a compensation of €15 000 for personal impairment by the conviction and of about €200 per day of detention. This acknowledgment can certainly not be carried by our side, by the BZÖ, especially in relation to the two last mentioned groups, which are referred to in § 207 b StGB, and there will therefore be no consent from us in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18794	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with the motion for a resolution 151/A to the Committee on Justice. [[20:00:44]] 6. Point First reading: Request by Mrs Lutz Weinzinger, Members of Parliament concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law of 7 December 1989 was adopted. ==References====External links==* Official website No. 400/1988, amended (173/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18834	We're now on the 6th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate immediately. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18861	Estimated President! Ladies and gentlemen! This proposal is simply about the fact that disabled people can also drop their contributions to disabled people's associations, to their organisations of interest, to those associations that are necessary for them – in part, in part – in the context of special expenditure. We are doing a lot for the disabled, that is our duty, and we are giving certain advantages to disabled people as far as the financial possibilities of our state community are concerned. But they can never be enough. You are either disabled from birth or you become disabled by diseases and accidents, and if you are disabled, you have incredible disadvantages and need help. And this aid is to a very large extent available to disabled people's organisations. For more than 20 years, disabled associations and individuals have been calling for a tax advantage for membership contributions to disabled people's associations. The aim of this proposal is to ensure that contributions to disabled organisations are recognised as additional special expenditure in the context of special expenditure. It's not a great thing. It does not overly damage our state budget, but it is a real advantage for the individual, a tax advantage that he can use. We believe that this proposal, which has been being made again and again for two decades, could now be accepted and accepted – not least because of the favourable economic situation. We could thus give some people with disabilities a huge, yet noticeable advantage, and our government budget would in no way be at risk in any way. I would therefore ask that this request be discussed accordingly in the committee responsible and that it be treated positively and then adopted at second and third readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18898	The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18920	I should like to speak briefly about this proposal at first reading by my group. Support the content We find here a place within the framework of income tax, where we can make membership contributions et cetera tax deductible in the case of disabled institutions. The question, however, is whether § 18, special editions, is appropriate, whether § 16 would be more reasonable where advertising costs are concerned. We will take this as a coalition party in the negotiations on the tax reform, where, as I mean, it is well established and where one then looks at technically what restrictions et cetera can be made. We will deal with this issue in the context of the tax reform debate and seek a reasonable solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18952	Next item is the report by Mr Schelling. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e18973	High house! First of all, a preliminary remark: In fact, almost every day such wishes are made to the Minister of Finance whether they are large or small. Everyone wants improvements. We want that, of course. But I think the Minister of Finance is well advised if, in the light of a planned and, as my previous speaker said, large tax reform 2010 takes note of these wishes, but then it is embedded in a large whole and not through countless, daily detailed measures, it reduces the scope so that we actually no longer have room for play. With reference to the proposal which is now being put forward, it should be noted from the point of view of my group that there is already, in principle, a deductibility of exceptional burden on the disabled in tax law. In my view, it should also be pointed out that, as the applicant said, thanks were made to God in the context of the disabled. In this context, I only remember the “Millions of people with disabilities”. Of course, we acknowledge that further improvements for people with special needs must not only be discussed, but also implemented beyond what has been achieved. But from a tax policy point of view, one cannot really follow this request. On the one hand, there is the reference to the 2010 tax reform, which has already fallen more often, but on the other hand, as my previous speaker has already said, it is important to clarify the question where this is actually happening. § 18 does not seem to be really suitable for this. It would probably be better if you did this in § 16 para. 1 point 3 would be attached to advertising costs. However, it should be said that there is already a possibility for voluntary membership of professional associations and representatives of interests within the framework of this provision. Now it has rightly been said that disabled people need a representation of interests or an organization that supports them. Of course, it is true that advertising costs for membership contributions are only possible if there is also employment. But that also does not solve this request. The demand for tax consideration is therefore legitimate, but not quite understandable and, in my opinion, legally worrying, the present request contains the limitation that only disabled people should be granted a special deduction of expenditure. We believe that membership contributions from non-disabled people to disability facilities should also be deductible. This applies, of course, to family members as well as taxpayers who are particularly involved in matters of particular needs; for should therefore not be excluded from this deduction of the member contributions. For this reason too, it makes sense for us to embed this into a large body and thus into the next tax reform. It was also useful – contrary to the request, as already mentioned – to the wording of § 16 para. 1 point 3 lit. b and the wording in § 18 para. 1 point 8 to be supplemented. Therefore, on behalf of my group, I can say that we will not vote in this form. At the same time, however, I can offer that we take this issue of tax reform 2010 in evidence and start talking about it with the Federal Minister for Finance. I think we need a viable and clean legal regime, a regulation with clear directives on the deductibility of these special expenditures.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e19022	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking next time. The Group's remaining speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e19043	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Weinzinger, this is how cheap it is. You don't get rid of people with disabilities - I'll tell you that - because: If you only want membership contributions from people with disabilities to their own organisations to be tax deductible, I will tell you: That doesn't mean anything to the disabled! I'll explain it to you. I know a little about tax law, and that's why I can tell you. Imagine paying to a typical disabled club the disabled – you only want to reduce it to the disabled – contributions of between €12 and €36 a year. Most of these people deserve so little that they cannot put off tax at all because they have an income that cannot be taxed. That means that this group of people would pay this amount anyway grossly for net itself. And the other group, which might have a slightly higher income, would receive a maximum of € 9 to € 12 per year from this member contribution. If you do this over the extraordinary burden, as it is now proposed by the ÖVP, then it is no longer €9, but only €2,60 below the line, because from 6 percent then this income, which goes beyond the burden limit, would be deductible. [[Abg. Tamandl: Advertising costs!]] That's not what disabled people have! People with disabilities – and the Greens have already tabled a motion for a resolution – need a measure, with the tax exemptions that have been noted since 1988 – since 1988! – have no longer been raised, are raised accordingly and where at the same time those persons who do not have taxable income are paid these amounts as a negative tax. That would be a real improvement! But 2,60 €, please believe it to me, that is absolutely too little, and 9 € or 12 € as well. Mr Weinzinger, you said that was a demand that disabled people have been raising for 20 years. I have been working in the Austrian disability movement for 27 years now, but this requirement has not yet been met with me, because people can also expect disabilities and do not demand something where they stay under the line €2.60. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] People with disabilities, as has been said, can very well expect and make exactly the same demands that other groups of persons also make for themselves. In this case, this is the increase in general allowances plus the negative tax for those persons who are unable to pay the tax. But with 2,60 € to 9 € – sorry, with this amount you can certainly not feed us off!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e19089	The next item is the speech by Mr Dolinschek. The Group's remaining speaking time: 5 minutes. Mr deputies, you want to speak for 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e19110	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is now possible to discuss how people with disabilities can be met. For years, the organisations, project promoters, associations, associations have been taking action to ensure that there is a tax deductibility of private donations in this area. For us, of course, the question arises: Where do you draw the border? What cover and so on? In principle, however, I have to say one thing: A working group has been set up in the Ministry of Finance for two periods, which examines how to make this deductibility, and it would be very, very, very many associations and support organisations, Mr. Oillinger, would help if private donations were also deductible. [[Abg. Ollinger: You've been testing this for a long time!]] Of course, these associations, institutions and associations must be subject to the audit of the Court of Auditors. This is not a question, that must be already, control must be, but it would be important that these associations would also be financed through private donations. The other issue raised by Mrs Haidlmayr is, of course, also known to us. We know that the allowances have not been raised since 1988 for about 20 years. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Since 1988!]] Every social speaker or disabled speaker has received the letter from the Handicrafts Association, in which there is a need to raise the amount of allowances at last. People who also have a motor vehicle, where the mineral oil tax will now be increased, do not come out with the 10 per cent flat rate, because of course they have an increased effort for their disabled vehicle. This is the one thing that needs to be raised. On the other hand, of course, measures must also be taken to ensure that there is a tax deductibility for social expenditure. It's just the question, in what form. Of course also in the form of a negative tax. But above all, those people who are not disabled, but for social purposes, should also be able to pay off their donation tax. Then many would have helped. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: (keeping a document in height) Read this through!]] I know, Mrs Haidlmayr, that all the political groups here in the House have tabled proposals, but I also know how hard it is to negotiate with the respective Minister of Finance in the government and bring them over. That's the other side of the medal. Nevertheless, all those who have been involved with the disabled or who have had to deal with disabled people's associations know how much it has done. Of course, we must continue to work on it. But I am confident – because steady drop hollows the stone – that we will also be bringing a little further here together.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e19178	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I accept the motion for a resolution 173/A to the Financial Committee. The agenda is exhausted. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Wednesday, 25. April 2007, 9 a.m., with the following agenda: Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (39 of Supplements): Federal Law on the Approval of the Federal Estimate for the Year 2007 (Federal Finance Act 2007 – BFG 2007) and Appendices (70 of Supplements) Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (40 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Approval of the Federal Estimate for 2008 (Bundesfinanzgesetz 2008 – BFG 2008) and Appendices (71 of Supplements) For advice: Supreme Institutions, Federal Chancellery, Women and Sports, National Defense and Justice. This meeting will not take place for one hour or one hour at a time. [[20:16:46]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-24-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e19235	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications were tabled from 190/A to 192/A. Question No 692/J to 701/J has also been received. Before I close the meeting, I announce that immediately after the end of this meeting, the Court of Auditors will hold its meeting at local VI. This meeting is closed.
