ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e3109	I'll open the 13th. Meeting of the National Council dedicated exclusively to the discussion of EU issues. At this point I should also like to warmly welcome the representations of various embassies, especially the Ambassador of the Federal Republic of Germany: It's nice you're here. [[General condolences.]] The Official Protocols of the 11th and 12ths Meeting of 30 March 1990 January 2007 the Parliament's management has remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies Donabauer, Mandak, Dr. Pilz and Kickl are reported as prevented. [[10:01:57]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e3155	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that the mandate of the Deputies, which had been released by the abandonment of Deputies Erika Scharer, has been released. Rosa Lohfeyer. It was also announced that the mandate of Deputies Adolfe Herta Mikesch was given by Dr. Johann Georg Schelling. Mr Adolfe Herta Mikesch was assigned the mandate of the Federal Minister Dr. Ursula Plassnik. Instead of deputies Dr Werner Fassleven, Deputies Dorothea Schittenhelm was appointed to the National Council. Since the electorate is present and the members of the House are present, I will immediately make their fishing observation. After reading the vow formula and by calling for a name by the writer, the new ambassadors/mandata women will have to do their fishing with the words “I promise”. I now ask the author, Mrs Binder-Maier, to read the vow formula and the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e3234	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.” On behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Binder-Maier, the Members of Parliament shall do Mag. Rosa Lohfeyer, Dr. Johann Georg Schelling and Dorothea Schittenhelm the Angelobung with the words “I praise”.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e3273	I very much welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] [[10:03:49]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e3303	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e3567	I also announce that the Second Report of the Incompatibilities Committee has been distributed to all members of the National Council. We are now entering the EU topic in accordance with § 74b GOG: Work programme of the German Presidency. Reasonable time agreement
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e3588	For the transfer of the meeting by the ORF from 9.55 a.m. to 1 p.m., the following speaking time agreement was concluded: Federal Chancellor 10 minutes each, one speech per group of 9 minutes, Vice-Cancellor 10 minutes, one word per group of 7 minutes, Federal Minister for European and International Affairs 9 minutes, one word per group of 5 minutes, another German Minister of Foreign Affairs 9 minutes, one word per group of 5 minutes. The President-in-Office of the Council will, after consultation with the presidents of the club, evenly distribute the remaining remaining time to the five political groups before the beginning of the last round. There is also agreement that any actual corrections will only be made after the television broadcast. [[10:05:08]] Work Programme of the German Presidency
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e3619	I now give the floor to the Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e3640	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This week, the Spring Summit of the European Union is in the house with extremely important questions for the future of people's living together in Europe. Economic development is an absolutely positive one, especially from the Austrian point of view. The economic situation in Central and Eastern Europe is in line with expectations, and the eurozone economy has been experiencing growth. And so we expect good economic prospects for further development. However, this must not lead us to put our hands in the lap, but it is quite the opposite of pursuing and meeting the Lisbon objectives consistently. In terms of these objectives, of course, there are different degrees of achievement of individual countries. I think it is particularly important, from the Austrian point of view, for us to point out at this summit that it is a matter of anchoring education from a European point of view. Finally, education opportunities at all levels are the key to the future competitiveness of our continent and the key to the prosperity of our countries and the people who live here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Secondly, we are talking about increased social cohesion. German Chancellor Angela Merkel pointed out that it would also be necessary, in view of the decision-making or ratification of the European Constitutional Treaty, to reduce the distance between the citizens of Europe and the institutions. In my opinion, it has correctly recognised that this is also linked to what are Europe's issues. It is very important that Europe also has a social face, that, in addition to the successes in competition policy, it alerts its citizens to economic success: It is not about abstract objectives, but about the well-being of many people. I believe that a clear social policy signal from this summit can also contribute to the fact that the proposed or proposed roadmap would be helpful for the acceptance of the European Constitutional Treaty. We in Austria are interested in the final ratification of this Treaty, as the Austrian Parliament has already taken the essential step of ratification long ago. We believe that Europe will become better than before with this Constitutional Treaty. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A central point of discussion will, of course, be the issue of climate protection – a European and a global task. We know that Europe is currently responsible for 14 percent of CO2 emissions worldwide, and in the future it will only be more than 10 percent, which is also a sign that global economic weights will shift. Of course, we have responsibility. It is therefore necessary for us to achieve binding objectives at this European Council, because we must be aware that the climate change debate has produced a great deal of positive awareness, but unfortunately there are also developments. One of the biggest misdevelopments in my understanding is that in Europe there is a very strong renaissance of nuclear energy, and many states are insisting on reducing their CO2 emissions on the one hand and on securing energy supply through the construction of new nuclear power plants on the other. Unfortunately, the mood among those responsible in Europe has changed quite a bit. As Austrians, we are among the few who will uphold the flag of a strict course against the peaceful use of nuclear energy and will continue to hold high – for two very essential reasons: Firstly, we are convinced that the peaceful use of nuclear energy is still an extremely risky form of energy generation, not to talk about the long-term risks that arise from the unexplained issues of the final storage. Secondly, we also note that the population in Europe is actually different from the rulers. Since yesterday there are the new results of the “Eurobarometer” that the question, how do you think... – No! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is also true in Austria!]] In Austria, 100 percent of the Austrian population and 100 percent of the members of the Federal Government – and I hope Parliament too – are of the opinion that we reject the peaceful use of nuclear energy in Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] 61 per cent of the total population of the European Union are committed to reducing the share of nuclear energy – completely contrary to what many governments are doing. 92 percent are for the introduction of higher safety standards. In general, it is interesting that Europe's citizens are also much wider in terms of issues of binding objectives. For example, 83 percent of all people in Europe want a fixed minimum share of renewable energy in energy production – something that the Austrian Federal Government, together with the EU Presidency, Germany, will strongly support, because we believe: Only if there are binding objectives can we reduce the risk that nuclear energy will be used as a substitute for fossil fuels. It will therefore be very crucial to support Germany to achieve a binding goal. I believe that this is absolutely crucial for the structural development of the future European energy industry. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Climate protection will not stop at this summit, however, or it will be possible to give the last signal on climate protection issues. The discussions of the last few days have shown several things: Firstly, the Kyoto Protocol was not enough to stop global warming. In other words, new and additional measures need to be put in place, in particular energy efficiency, the reduction of heating costs and also the reduction of fossil energy consumption. In this context, I think it is important to have a market-economy discussion about what is actually taxed and what is not. It is inconceivable that every kilometer of car driving is taxed by the taxation of diesel or petrol, but, for example, kerosene – aviation gasoline – is not taxed, just as shipping diesel is not taxed. This means that there is discrimination of different forms of movement. We believe that a general taxation of fossil energy consumption – including kerosene – should be introduced, as it is fossil energy sources, and this taxation should serve as a substitute for existing sources of financing in the European Union. – This would be a sustainable, socially sound contribution to putting the European Union’s funding on new feet. We agree that Austria will take this position as part of the financial review, because this will also improve the future of financing for Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! At this summit, of course, we also have the perspective of the general development of Europe. The Berlin Declaration and the future of the European Constitutional Treaty will also be discussed in advance. This is of vital importance to Austria because, of course, after the fall of the Iron Curtain, after the enlargement of the European Union, we are now very much not only geographically, but also politically at the centre of Europe. It is no wonder that when many think in Europe about the future of Western Balkans or the future of Kosovo, they consider Austria to be a first point of contact because Austrian expertise is very much in demand in this context. I also noticed in all the contacts with our neighbours that the Austrian role in the context is one that we do not need to push, but that is naturally asked. It is therefore, I think, absolutely crucial for us to think and say beyond the previous stage of enlargement: From the Austrian perspective, the next perspective of European enlargement is the European perspective for the Western Balkans. We are convinced that this would make a further contribution to the stabilisation of Europe and this region. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, looking at a variety of crisis-solving strategies that exist in the world – warlike or non-warring – one must always be aware of a fact: The most comprehensive regime change that has taken place over the last 100 years was the change of regime in Eastern Europe, where, without war, there has been a development from communism to political democracy and the free market economy. This has happened, among other things, in this form because the European integration project is based on participation, prosperity, democracy and freedom. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] And we want to continue this success recipe for the Western Balkans.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e3728	We are now going into the debate. The speaking times are known. Only motions for resolutions can be tabled in the debate. First, Mr. Klubobmann, Dr. Cap, speaks. 9 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e3752	Madam President. High house! In view of the fact that 50 years ago the Romans began the process of Europe approaching, and above all under the title "Never again war, expansion of social conditions and traditions and expansion of democracy" one will of course not miss out on critically how to look at the situation in the European Union at the moment. Only those who reflect it honestly and sincerely will also gain the confidence of the population in continuing to go a step further in order to push forward this European integration. It is no secret that there and there is sand in the gearbox in the European Union. You can admit that openly! This criticism, which is mutual between the bureaucracy and the Commission in Brussels and vice versa, by the Commission towards the bureaucracy, is a small sign that it is too much to take over the agendas of politics and therefore too little political control and political influence. It is also a multiplicity of fragmented European Union – you can almost say – to recognize divided European Union: Whether this was on the current issue of the signing of the European Declaration on Social Minimum Standards, where the Austrian Social Minister signed but many others did not sign; the division in Eurozone where euro is paid, and non-Eurozone; the division of NATO member countries in the European Union and non-NATO member countries; the debate on the deployment of missiles in the Czech Republic and Poland, for which there is not even a majority in the countries concerned, and which is also voiced by other countries – it is about the stationing of American missiles in the Czech Republic and Poland, with the argument that it was against Iran, but Russia understands it as if it were against Russia. The question is as follows: How will relations between the European Union and Russia develop on the basis of these steps? It is about the question – and here also a multiple division – of the further enlargement of the European Union. Should we open new negotiating chapter with Turkey – yes or no? – I mean, no – due to the situation in Turkey. Others believe that this enlargement process should nevertheless be pursued. Yes to the expansion of the Western Balkans! I believe that this makes sense for the European Union, but also for Austria – a target area of important investment by Austrian companies, so that job security is not only on the ground, but of course also in Austria, so that Austria's role in this region is strengthened, as well as a strengthening of the role of Austria in the European Union. Nevertheless, there must be a discussion: Do we have a European model or do we have a Euro-Asian model or a Euro-Mediterranean model as a goal? Then the European people must be asked if they want to do so, because 50 years ago the start with the Romans Treaties was the beginning and the goal and the formulation of an association process economic, social and, where possible, political nature for a European Union. What is still Union today can be viewed relatively and critically not only on the issue of the common foreign and security policy, but also on many other issues. For example, in the matter of nuclear energy. The German Chancellor mentioned, quite rightly enough, that the debate on CO2 emissions, the debate on climate protection, which is justified and where there really needs to be steps, is often misused by the nuclear lobby, in order to say that the cleanest energy is nuclear energy – not suggesting that it is the most public-funded energy form; not suggesting that when it really comes to an accident there, it can lead to major problems over decades; not to what it looks like with the endowment of nuclear-polluted substances from these nuclear power plants. It remains the right argument that we put forward at the time, 1978, when we fought against the Zwentendorf nuclear power station: That's a risky technology we don't want! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who fought against Zwentendorf?]] This argument remains, which is also the basis of the reasoning of this Federal Government at European level, and here Austria is certainly a bulwark against this attempt to further advance a renaissance of nuclear energy at European level. Therefore: A revision conference of Euratom would be important. We can go further in this multiple fragmentation process, which can be observed in the question of deepening or enlargement. What's more important now? To reorganise with the stock of Member States? Yes, I do! It is therefore necessary to have a reorganisation here. Falsifiedly, this has always been called a European constitution. Here it has never been a question of a constitution for the European Union, regardless of what a constitution is, for example, the basis of the Austrian legal system, Austrian democracy, no, but here it is that this enlargement process, these new issues that arise in the European Union, is also structured, which also gives an order, which makes the European Union also operational and functional. Nevertheless, there was a defeat in the referenda in the Netherlands and France at the time. Why? – Because there are fears in the European Union. And we should address them, otherwise we will not gain the trust of the people. [[Abg. Strache: You should let yourself vote in Austria! That's where you're supposed to let the people talk.]] Fears on the social issue, fears about minimum standards, fears about employment – because the Lisbon objectives were originally not achieved; this is therefore one of the priorities in this Federal Government – fears that concern young people in particular, fears about the workplace and, of course, fears in the question: What about the European Union as a whole? That's why you have to make yourself honest here. I mean, there'll be a lot of watching in front of the televisions, and I'll ask you the question: What's going on? Austria going for a way here? And they are right to ask this question! – Austria will go the way to meet these fears, address them, and bring them into the European Union where there are solutions to counter these fears. This will be the case in many, many areas. Among other things, there has also been an area which is rather bilateral, but which nevertheless affects here, that is the question of nuclear power stations close to the border, which is the question of Temelín. There should be an interparliamentary commission here – from us Petra Bayrund Walter Schopfmit, Members of this House who know well who can also address the issue – in order to work together with those responsible in the Czech Republic to find solutions. This is also one of the essential aspects to be addressed in this context. In summary, it can therefore be said: If these meetings are to have a meaning at European level, which is taking place here – and that is certainly to say to the opposition address, which will certainly be very critical afterwards – then that as a result of the fact that Austria and the Austrian Federal Government are moving in the direction of sustainable and recognizable efforts to stimulate the economy, employment, growth and at the same time for security as regards the issue of energy development, for security as regards the question of employment, training, research, competitiveness and competitiveness of Europe, as regards the question of the global debate, but also that the European Union wants to resolve a certain safeguard function in relation to this global pressure, the social structures. That is why it is also about the European social model, which is why it is about modernising the way it is properly formulated in the German Presidency, and therefore it is about drawing these traces and telling people honestly what the European Union of tomorrow will look like, what model it will offer Austria in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e3813	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Schüssel. Speaking time: 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e3834	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! A little more optimism is, I believe, quite appropriate in view of the forthcoming European Council, because once a year the Heads of State or Government are discussing together with the Commission and in [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] Ahead of the social partners and the Presidents of the European Parliament, the main economic policy issues. There is, I believe, nowhere in the world that such a close discussion is taking place in which the entire nations, the parliaments, the bureaucrats, the economy and so on are involved. At the beginning, we had a huge pendant in the Lisbon strategy, with which we set ourselves the goal of becoming the most dynamic economic area in the world in 2000. But for two years this has been turning, and it is, I believe, interesting to see that six million jobs have been created in Europe in the last two years, 2005 and 2006. Another seven million additional jobs are expected for this year and next year. That is, I think, a reason in general to hope that something will really go on here. Austria and the Member States also benefit significantly. The exports trees. We have around 3 percent economic growth. By the way: Enlargement was one of the very great achievements on this path. This should also be said to the critical public that, especially in Austria, we have benefited greatly from this enlargement and from this common strategy and will continue to benefit. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The test is therefore something like the European Way of Life, this European model of life, which combines the social dimension, economic efficiency and environmental responsibility. Today, not only the Austrians are talking about this European Way of Life, but also German Council President Merkel or Commission President Barroso. It is interesting that the population feels this way for all fears and concerns. In the last Eurobarometer – which I actually found interesting – published a month ago, stands inside, 86 percent of the European population are happy with their living conditions, happy with the situation they are in. They are satisfied with their personal and the environment in Europe, in their country, in their city. This is actually a first-class record, if you want to, for this European Way of Life, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this Council, of course, the issue of energy will be a very strong one. For the first time, there have been precise and binding objectives under the Austrian Presidency. The Germans are really going a step further now. There will be a clear common action plan. This is also very important because two thirds of all energy resources in the fossil sector are stored in countries with at least an improved democratic and human rights standard, and we are increasingly dependent on energy imports from these countries. We therefore urgently need to decouple economic growth and energy growth. We urgently need to look at efficiency. Let's not forget. At present, 60 percent of energy efficiency is not used for our normal power plants. In the lighting, 95 percent of the efficiency potential is not used. And a professor at the Berlin Academy of Sciences, Lucas, says we can save 50 percent of energy in the next ten years without losing wealth. This is actually a huge story, and that would be an issue for the Council and also for subsequent implementation. I very much welcome the fact, ladies and gentlemen, that the old Austrian idea of fair taxation of shipping and air traffic is, of course, supported and also brought into the discussion by you. [[Calls for Greens]] And this for a very simple reason: Ship transport, for example, accounts for about 5 percent of the world's CO2 emissions. Currently, 20,000 ships are in preparation, in production, the increase rates will be 75 percent. Air transport accounts for 2%. So these are already volumes around here that go far beyond what one or the other might imagine. It is therefore important to have a common approach from fiscal, environmental and judicial considerations. But this will not be easy – I say quite openly here – and this will require a very dedicated debate at European level. Of course, it will also be very important in this Council discussion that the peace efforts, the European Union's foreign policy efforts, are supported in a sustainable way. We deliver about 50 percent of world development cooperation, 40 percent of UN missions are put by the EU, in the Balkans, in the Middle East, in Iran, in Afghanistan, everywhere, Europe's contribution is absolutely important, and especially Vienna as the location of the UN – the recent visit of UN Secretary General Ban Ki Moon has stressed this sustainablely – is one of the exciting areas where we can contribute multilaterally to peace, disarmament, stability in the world. What we don't want is a new match. It is therefore very important that the Foreign Minister – even if this is not an EU issue in the narrower sense – has addressed the issue of missile stationing in Central Europe. Of course, every country has the right to seek its security, but all of us are collectively involved, and ultimately there is no security alone. We need a collective security system. This extends from reprocessing or from enrichment in a multilateral control system to efforts, such as a sign that can secure the whole of Europe and not target anyone. It is therefore very important that these careful and wise efforts are supported by the Austrian government. We don't want any new competitions. That means we have enough bad and bad experiences. I know that, in my opinion, a number of speakers will come to the table who are in principle skeptical of the new Constitutional Treaty – it is already a Constitutional Treaty, Mr Klubobmann Cap, which, by the way, would even be at least equivalent to the level of the Austrian Constitution, like all today's instruments of the European Union – and I really want to appeal for a differentiated discussion. We do not necessarily need symbols, the name is not crucial, but the substance of such a contract is important. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this new Treaty contains many answers to those questions that rightly move the citizens. Energy policy: For the first time in a summary energy article, energy policy is at all possible together, with a qualified majority, for the first time there will be a European voice from a European foreign minister, for the first time Parliaments will be strengthened, but also the European Parliament will be fully uplifted. I am therefore really pleading for a differentiated view. This Treaty is not a miracle, but it is a wise instrument to develop Europe, and we all want it. Therefore, good luck for this first summit, Mr Bundeskanzler, Mr Vice-Chancellor, Mrs Foreign Minister! You will certainly do well, Europe and Austria well represented.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e3943	The next speaker was Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Van der Bellen. 9 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e3964	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is common for such EU summits that the respective Presidency will forward the so-called provisional conclusions to see on which paper to agree, and these provisional conclusions, as presented by the German Presidency, are highly interesting and have an essential focus, and that is climate change policy and a new energy policy. In addition, it is also important, and in the first part of these conclusions, to further develop the so-called Lisbon process, the Lisbon Strategy. In essence, I say nothing new, but the Lisbon strategy is essentially a proven and good strategy with the emphasis on training, research, innovation across Europe, which, of course, must be implemented at national level. In particular, there is one point in this chapter, which I would also like to draw the attention of the Austrian Federal Government to in particular point 17, which points out that ecotechnologies make an essential contribution, including within the Lisbon strategy, to growth and jobs, that is, to economic growth and to the labour market, apart from being indispensable in the field of climate protection. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But the core and focus of the summit is the new energy policy, with a clear indication that a significant, drastic reduction of so-called greenhouse gases, in particular carbon dioxide, is necessary, also in Europe, and that Europe, the European Union, wants to set itself binding targets here. I understand at least the aims of the German Presidency, which we support in the warmest and most intensive way. Why new energy policy, ladies and gentlemen, in this context? – Well, because it is not at all different because the greenhouse effect, as far as it is caused by humans, is mainly based on the combustion of fossil fuels, i.e. coal, oil and gas. The conclusion can only be – somewhat flattered –: Get out of these fossil fuels and into the renewable energies! Apart from the fact that more energy efficiency is actually the command of the hour. I believe that we can make it clear to citizens in Europe and also in Austria that it is not just about difficult adjustments, but simply about having the same comfort in many areas, but with less energy use. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The summit is not over, nor has this paper been decided, and Commission President Barroso, who must have some insight into things, is today not quite euphoric about the forthcoming summit, as I should say. He expressly supports the binding objectives in the fight against global warming, but also says: “It is about the credibility of the EU.” – No more and no less than the credibility of the EU. “The Heads of State and Government have the opportunity to show that the EU is still as relevant today as it was 50 years ago,” says Barroso. Stand here. Decisions for future generations are at stake, and for decades there are going on. Conclusion of Barroso: “But the question is whether the political will is there.” Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the EU that fails when nothing or too little comes out of this summit, but the current Chancellors and Heads of Government of the European Union, and I cannot believe that it is really a question of whether the political will is there, but I assume that political will is so far advanced in all nations, in all the Member States of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps we politicians are also called on to explain more to the population, for example, in the direction that climate protection does not exist at a zero rate and that there is a need for changes in behaviour at different levels. But on the other hand, we should not only stress the costs and how difficult this is not all, but also the benefits of this policy. For example, when economists such as Nick Stern have demonstrated in recent weeks that, although a serious climate protection, which is absolutely necessary, will cost a fraction of the world social product, the lack of time, the continuation of business as usual will be five to twenty times more expensive, will in fact lead to incalculable consequences, I believe that we are all required – not only the Greens, but politicians of all parties – which are better explained that it is useful to pay a certain insurance premium today, so as not to produce incalculable consequences in decades. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is not so difficult to do that in every area and always. I call an unwarranted example because the head of state is not a greener, but a black one, namely Vorarlberg: The Vorarlberg housing promotion – I don't get tired of mentioning it – has been exemplary for years and decades. For years, Vorarlberg’s housing development has been putting the greatest emphasis on energy efficiency, on new standards for old buildings and, above all, on new buildings with the success of building houses that you don’t have to heat in winter and have to cool as well as not cool in summer. This is energy efficiency without losing comfort, and the federal states have been able to copy it for a long time. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, in your government program is the sentence that housing development in 2015 – dear colleague Cap, in 2015! – to be changed to passive house standard. In 2015, this federal government is probably not in office at first, second we have 2007, and Vorarlberg shows today, 2007 that this is possible. Not only in 2015! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Even if the summit decides tomorrow and the day after this ambitious programme of the German Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, that is only the beginning, the difficulties of the level will only begin. Then this EU-wide objective has to be translated into national programmes – and there are Austrians incinerated children; I mention only the eco-electric novels from last year, which have made the opposite of what is now to be decided at EU level – it has to be translated at national and sectoral level. And it can't be that way – I say as a greener – that the industry has to bear the entire weight of adaptation. The industry in Austria and Europe has already done a lot, and the other sectors in housing, in thermal renovation and especially in transport cannot be left out of duty. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A sentence on the EU Constitution, Mr Bundeskanzler: Of course, we support the Constitutional Treaty, as it has been ratified in the Austrian Parliament – I agree with Mr Klubobmann Schüssel on this point as far as the Constitutional Treaty is concerned – it would be important, from the Austrian point of view, not only to preserve the core, but also to allow Member States to withdraw from the EURATOM Treaty without losing membership in the European Union. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: The social dimension of the European Union is constantly being conjured, also in this paper of the German Presidency. Now there are nine ministers of labour, Mr Buchinger, who wrote an interesting paper with many – we find the Greens – good points about the need for a new emphasis on the so-called social dimension: from the emphasis of full employment on the balance between economic freedom and social rights and so on. Nine ministers of labour have signed this paper, including those of Spain, Italy, Greece and so on, nine ministers of labour of the 27 have signed it, Austria not. I assume that this is because Minister Buchinger is not the Austrian Minister of Labour, but Minister Bartenstein. And it's not useful now, Minister Buchinger, if you, as I suppose, have quiet sympathy for this paper: [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] Austria, in the form of Minister Bartenstein, has not signed it. Very sad!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e4082	Mr Klubobmann Strache is next spoken. Also 9 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e4104	Madam President. Values German chancellors! Dear Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have experienced the typical EU language, and you, Dr. Schüssel, have expected differentiation today, and you are now also getting differentiation. If one had faith in the words so far, then one would almost have the opinion that we are living in Paradise if one should also give faith to the EU nomenclature. It's not like this. We have developments in the European Union, for which the citizens are rightly concerned, are also rightly upset, and the credibility of this project of this current European Union is ultimately not a growing one, but a falling one. Today, we have heard of the Lisbon Strategy, which has set itself the goal of improving the labour market and employment policy, that there should be growth and employment effects to be achieved. We have heard beautiful words, but there is little to do with reality. While we have, as mentioned, economic growth in Europe, but despite economic growth and profits for companies and the large industry, we are increasingly experiencing job destruction. We have heard that more jobs have been created, but strangely there is higher unemployment on the other hand than ever in this European Union. – And all of this is something that is, of course, quite insecure to the citizens. We have a Euro-Development, which is a Euro-Teuro development, where we have to experience the increasing burden on citizens, we have a situation where citizens have to fight inflation rates, where their daily life is made difficult by the cost of living, which ultimately leads to more and more people falling below the poverty line. All this has to concern us. If the Federal Chancellor then speaks of social responsibility in the European Union, I would like to say that we have social responsibility in Austria for our Austrian people – and we must never leave for Brussels! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We know exactly this outsourcing principle of social democracy from the experience of Vienna. In the Vienna City Hall and Landtag, the SPÖ mayor and head of state has outsourced all that had to do with social responsibility into funds so that he can say afterwards that he has no responsibility for radical cuts in this area. So we have social responsibility here in this House and we do not have to move out to Brussels to say: We are sorry that citizens are getting worse and that social networks are becoming increasingly interconnected and interconnected. – This is a clear line that we represent. We have also heard about the EU Constitution today. Yes, one wants to make a non-democratic resurgence of a European Union constitution. But I think that's the wrong way. Do the European Union's lobbys really believe that they can simply impose something on the European peoples? We had to see it in the main committee yesterday. That is because the EIA member of the European Parliament has said that he does not understand the criticism, because all the Heads of State in the European Union signed the ratification at that time. – This example proves how removed and out-of-citizen these Heads of State were, because they have partially ratified against their population majority, without voting or waiting for vote! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In France and in Holland, we have been able to experience where the majority of the population have at least received an opportunity to reject this in the context of a referendum. We in Austria have said just as: No, we don't let the people talk! The Austrians should not be allowed to decide whether their Austrian constitution should be replaced by another. Well, of course, the Austrian has a right to this referendum, and if there is a new constitutional discussion and a new constitutional ratification, then, Federal Chancellor, I ask you: Give the Austrian people this right, ensure this right, that direct democracy, the referendum on this important question is made possible, and not with tricks and perhaps again all possible cunnings prevent this referendum! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] You said yesterday in the main committee itself that you do not want a vote-fleckerlteppich, so you are against the referendum in Austria. Those were your words, Federal Chancellor. So, a little bit of a vote? – I do not want the Poles or the Germans to decide whether we give up our Austrian constitution and replace it with another or not. We have Austrians to decide and no one else! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why it is: the lack of democracy to resolve the lack of participation! That's where you're blackmailed. There seems to be some confusion in the definition of what democracy means. Not the EU lobbys, not the Heads of Government, should act in the way that they impose their opinion on the population, but vice versa: The opinion of the population must be heard, taken seriously, and this opinion must then be implemented politically! That's where we have to find and find again! No removed class who believes that they have to reoctroy something here! – That’s exactly what it’s all about! And that is why we will make a clear statement on this issue. It has also been addressed the question of climate improvement, climate protection – no question, a very important task. We all know that we need to promote renewable energy and also more subsidise it. This is ultimately also our national task here in Austria. There's a lot to do here. But it certainly cannot be as it has been in the last few days, that an Environment Minister is going to Pröll and giving the population a little along the way: You may work all year long, but please do not travel on vacation trips! And if you are talking about the kerosene tax, which you have invented here and which is now to be introduced as a European Union tax, I have to say: Yeah, where is that supposed to lead? Should travel now be made possible only for rich and G’stoppers, or can normal citizens expect them to make a trip in the future? So I think we should be very critical of this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, I come to the question of missile stationing – I would like to mention this in conclusion, because it is important, and also thank the Foreign Minister for addressing this –: If in European Union countries the Americans continue to expand with wet-connected missile support points, I also understand the criticism of Russia, because the Cold War should be over, and we should also address this in the European Union.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e4249	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Klubobmann, Mr Klubobmann, has been properly tabled, duly supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e4306	Ladies and gentlemen, you have shown your posters. I'm trying to roll them back in! The next item is Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. 9 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e4331	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! One goes to the government bank, which is the Minister for the Environment. This is the focus, even in the next few days. I hope he's not on the plane, he's got something. other – credible – to do. In fact, he belongs to Parliament today, because in recent days he has dominated the discussion with proposals, which are rather in the cabaret and would actually not be very serious, if this were not done against a background which could seriously harm the Austrian tourism industry and the economy in general. I'll talk to you later. It has been tried again today to speak with great beauty about the common house of Europe, about the peace project and about the future of Europe. The only problem is that fewer and fewer people want to go there and the European Union is becoming more and more a spirit train that is led by a few creatives in suit and tie, but in which people are no longer sitting in because they are not going along anymore because they are rightly criticizing because they simply realize that this move is going in the wrong direction. You must not participate in the decision-making process. There is a risk that new taxes will eventually be introduced. – This is not the Europe that we have expected and which people have also expected, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. This displeasure, this anger and this disappointment about this European Union are very legitimate and well argued, because the EU is currently in a deep crisis. It is in a deep crisis because it only creates more embarrassing actions because no clear, clear strategies are developed anymore. While on the one hand a reduction in the CO2 gas is finally decided, on the other hand, the EU Economic Ministers – and I hope you will succeed in doing something about it, Mr Bundeskanzler, on the other hand, you have said this today – reject the 20 percent rule on renewable energy. I hope that will still be a result. I wish you all the best. You would certainly be good on the road, and we would also support you. Only: The fact that something is going to happen at this summit is rather unlikely, because it is something that usually goes by the way. To this end, the European Union is developing a policy of ban and decommissioning. It will restrict or tax people's mobility, so that they can no longer be mobile – at a time when communication and mobility are increasing. They should no longer travel, no longer be allowed to go on vacation, best stay at home. And our government will do this right away. It is involved in the leisure and holiday behaviour of the people, and that into the private households. Smoking is generally prohibited in local areas. On the other hand, we speak out quite massively! It is not taken into account by the individual, but is only burdened, demised and ultimately exposed to bans. On the other hand, we are because the European Union does not take care of itself, but rather leads a life itself in Saus and Braus, but only invents new taxes for EU citizens. And now I'm at the kerosene tax, Minister of Finance. The introduction of a kerosene tax only in Europe is totally nonsense! This is what Georg Wailand tells you today in the “Kronen Zeitung”. I quote: “If, however, only the EU introduces such a tax, then this is no different from an EU tax (which has been planned recently) that has been imposed on the environmental coat in order to spend it on the population.” That's it! The EU tax, which has long been planned, is thus introduced through the backlog of a so-called environmental tax, kerosene tax. Mr Finanzminister, what hope you have! I am very excited to see if you can do that too; we will look very closely. They stood here yesterday and said: If we introduce this kerosene tax on flights, then the net payers will benefit because then the net payers may be reduced because the European Union suddenly receives so much money from the kerosene tax. Minister of Finance Molterer, I would like to make a proposal to you – the summit that is going to bet! –: If you achieve this if you make a guarantee tomorrow or the next morning that the kerosene tax, when it comes, will reduce the net contributions of the countries, especially Austria, then we are immediately for it, then you have us as a partner. But if not, you are apologizing to the Austrian population for this hope that was ultimately not fulfilled! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Minister for the Environment Pröll, 2.3 percent of the emissions are from air traffic and you want to ban the Austrians from travelling by plane. That's not going to be the case! Why is that supposed to happen? Why do you put everything on the people? – We don't understand! Even if you know that the Ministry of the Environment alone has 250 000 tonnes of CO2 per year. It is! You're supposed to save yourself. At some point, people will ask the question, namely the question of the rightful question: Why should we, if the government wants to prohibit our vacations, actually pay taxpayers for the government's flights to the European Union? The hundreds, perhaps thousands, of flights that the government, together with its employees, leads to Brussels, Strasbourg or elsewhere, why are they paid out of taxpayers' money? Someday people will wonder why this is so. Do you ride the bike? Or do you walk? Or are you on the train? But then really – not like the clause, where you're going by train, then drive the drivers with the empty cars and pick you up from this clause again. – This is not an environmental policy, it is a farce, ladies and gentlemen of the government, a farce that nobody takes from you! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They have no strategy at all, even the Austrian Federal Government has no strategy. This is why the Minister of Social Affairs or the Government is here and now, at once, wants to introduce mobility premiums for workers moving in Austria. They do not yet know how much this mobility premium should be. One says 10,000, the other says 2,000 – again, unhealing chaos as in many other questions. The good Minister of Social Affairs wants to pay at all times when the workers move abroad. The Austrian economy will be very grateful for this. On the one hand, you want to introduce a mobility premium, i.e. you want to gain people more mobility, to promote and support it, but on the other hand, you are hindering mobility, for example by increasing the oil tax, by increasing the price of vignettes, by increasing the car toll and what else comes. That is, you burdened every single donor, hundreds of thousands of commuters who are already mobile and commuting to their workplace, from Lower Austria, from Burgenland to Vienna and back or elsewhere in Austria. And then suddenly ask: Be more mobile!, but burden the people anyway. That's not a strategy, it's chaos! This is not a serious policy of an Austrian government! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The same applies to nuclear power. – Federal Chancellor Gusenbauer, we have a consensus there: No nuclear power in Austria! But it's about nuclear power at our limits. Is that not embarrassing, Mr Bundeskanzler – is that the spirit of the European Union and the Austrian Federal Government? –: If you make a state visit, go to your colleague, shake his hands there, and then, when you come home, find out that at the same time as they were courted there, we have been silenced by another worrying incident of the Temelín nuclear power station?- Oh, my God! - That's embarrassing! Don't take them seriously! Austria is not taken seriously there! And that is why we expect the Federal Government to take clear and clear measures to ensure that this nuclear reactor is finally fought and shut down. We owe this to our people, especially in the border regions of Upper Austria. That is what we want to do, ladies and gentlemen. To conclude: One important point for us is the fight against crime, the maintenance of security. There has been a decision recently, two weeks ago, that in the future prison inmates will also be able to cancel their prison sentence in their home country in the European Union, because the prisons, as we know in Austria, are overcrowded. The answer just can't be, Mrs. Justice Minister, that if we have a higher crime and more prisoners, you release the prisoners. It can't be! That's what we're against! But if the European Union – which is again such a farce – decides that prisoners can also abolish their punishment in their home country, but at the same time for a country that causes a relatively high level of crime in Europe and also in our country, namely Poland, a five-year transitional period will be decided – for five years Poland withdraws from this agreement – then this is the next Farce, because it is not for security and not for crime, but for legitimate security interests of the Austrians on the altar of an agreement that is not worth the paper on which it stands, ladies and gentlemen! The motto of the German EU Presidency is “Europe succeeds in common”, so it is proclaimed in common. We hope that this summit will not bring out empty air again. We already have enough of that, because if we were to tax more heavily the empty air of politicians, the Minister for the Environment, the Austrian Federal Government, we would probably no longer have budget problems. I wish you all the best for this summit tomorrow and the day after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e4464	The next item is the speech by Mr. Vice-Chancellor Mag. Molterer. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e4485	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and also in front of the TV screens! The summit, which will be held in Brussels on Friday and Saturday, is well prepared by the German Presidency, has an interesting aspect that has not been illuminated so far, and I particularly welcome the idea that this summit and its presidency will be considered in the perspective of three presidencies. I think it is right that not every half year is considered isolated, but also with the Slovenian friends already being worked on, like the whole next year, the next one and a half years. This is a very interesting innovation for the reliability of European policy, and I thank you for it. I think it will make school to shape Europe over long periods of time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This summit also gives us the opportunity to answer some of the rightly addressed questions that citizens have about the future of Europe. But I should like to point out that we are going deep down here, for example, when it comes to the question of the future of the Constitutional Treaty. Citizens are rightly expected to give Europe the right answers to life issues of people, such as general care. What is generalized provision? – For example, water supply is one of these fundamental issues. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Clean air!]] For example, this too. And precisely to that, this Constitutional Treaty gives answers. I therefore do not understand at all that those who rightly criticise these questions are problematizing the solution in the same breath. The Constitutional Treaty, Mr Strache, is the solution and not the problem for many issues that you too are right. And you haven't recognized that yet. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] In the same way, when it comes to, for example, the legitimate concern that the regions be strengthened, such as the municipalities, the regions in Europe, also in Austria. This is a matter that we share, and we often call it technically “subsidiarity”. In fact, it says that people in the regions can be more involved. Who gives the answer? – The Constitutional Treaty, ladies and gentlemen! That is why I would ask you to focus on this positive side, despite any comprehensible critical debate. The Constitutional Treaty is a solution to the problems, probably not the perfect yet, but is the solution, is the answer to many questions. Since you said yesterday that the French voted against this Constitutional Treaty and therefore he will never come, I tell you that this House voted by a large majority in favour of the Constitutional Treaty, and I do not accept that a French No would suddenly be worth more than an Austrian yes. [[Abg. Strache: But he's not coming!]] That will not be possible, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Our voice is a strong, positive voice in Europe. The second major topic of the future, very important for the perspective, is climate and energy. Yes, I think that Europe needs to be even more consistent, even deeper, in order to shape the future properly. I would therefore like to thank the German Presidency, including Chancellor Angela Merkel, for an offensive approach to this so important question of the future. We support mandatory targets such as renewable energy. That's what's right with us. We agree on the issue of the rejection of nuclear energy as a perspective. But this consistently means, ladies and gentlemen, that we must also be for the alternatives of renewable energy.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e4557	Mr. Vice-Chancellor, one second. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens have shown their signs, I ask them to roll them back in. [[Calls to the Greens.]] I ask you to stop your posters and actionism again! - Thank you. Please continue, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e4585	If, therefore, we are consistent, Mr Van der Bellen, then this Taferl will not help us at all, but it will help us, for example, a clear yes to the expansion of hydropower where this is ecologically responsible, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It cannot be that we only have a consensus on the rejection of nuclear power, that would be too thin for me, but we must also have a consensus on the expansion of renewable energies, for all those who make ecological and economic sense. That's where you too will be required. On one point, Mr Van der Bellen, I would like to give you a hundred percent right: On energy and climate, we need to highlight the opportunities that lie within, especially the opportunities for growth and employment even more. This should not be a defensive issue, but it must not only be recognized as an ecological but also as an economic offensive in Europe as a great opportunity. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The third issue will be growth and employment. Here we build on good successes. Mr Westenthaler and also Mr Strache, don't talk small about this. Not because we are content that we have already achieved everything, there are many unresolved questions, but the direction is right. Growth in the European Union is stronger than many years earlier. The number of employees increases by around 7 million people in 2007 and 2008 who will have more work. Unemployment is falling, and the debt of public budgets in the European Union is also going to decline. The perspective is therefore absolutely correct. But there are a number of points where I think we will also support these offensives for growth and employment at the European Council. On the one hand, I welcome the decision of the German Presidency to the quality of public finances, not only the question of how we consolidate households, but also where we properly invest, for example in education, research, development or infrastructure. That is our explicit consent. Second question: The creation of the European Union's own financial base. I am therefore in favour of this kerosene tax or the shipping tax, also for Tobin tax, not only because it is the right ecological answer, but also the right European answer: Strengthening the European Union's own resources strengthens Europe, ladies and gentlemen, and strengthens the right objectives. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Westenthaler! Against this very background, therefore, I do not understand the criticism expressed. I have here a motion for a resolution which, during the last legislative period, was unanimously decided by all parties, including the voice of the Peter Westenthaler, which states that the Federal Government is being asked to apply for a tax in the field of air transport and shipping in Europe, on the grounds that these are mandatory in the European Member States. [[Abg. Strache: “Soletti, always with you!”]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Worldwide – but not only in Europe!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Worldwide!]] That's why I think: What was right last year, Mr Westenthaler, must also vote this year in the direction and in the perspective! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Worldwide! Not only in Europe!]] - That's what we're doing. [[In the case of the ÖVP, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] We are in favour of strengthening the internal market, where this is necessary, for example in the matter of financial services providers, in strengthening labour markets. Here, Austria will bring in quite an additional idea, the question of employee participation, so that even in the future – by the way: Part of the European model of life! – a fair division of the productivity progress between workers and employers. This new model of employee participation is and should remain a European innovation! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Austria, ladies and gentlemen, will also work in the Council for the mandatory objective of reducing bureaucracy not only at European level but also at Member State level. This target of minus 25 percent is also intended to give the right growth and employment perspective. Therefore, despite all discrepancy: In principle, I have a broad consensus for Europe, a consensus for a Europe that gives security and the future. This is what people expect of us, and this Austrian Federal Government will take action for it!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e4694	The next item is Mr Dr. A. Klepsch. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e4716	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to comment on three fields. Point one: It has also been critically said by the opposition today that Europe is not yet doing what it is supposed to do. That's right. On the other hand, we should also note that the Lisbon strategy is beginning to move forward economically, socially and environmentally – that is a fact. It is a fact that unemployment has begun to decline in Europe. Of course it's too little for us. Of course we are impatient. It is also right to be impatient because it is a matter of showing people that the European Union benefits them! That is why we also support the efforts of this Federal Government, which has not only set itself the goal of increasing employment and reducing unemployment, but also of ensuring, for example, that no one falls below a certain level by means of social minimum standards. – These are objectives that we represent in Austria, which we also represent at European level and which we support! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think that what it is all about is to make the European Union operational in order to be able to prove this concrete benefit to the citizens of the Union and also to Austria. Therefore, let me come – second – to the subject of the so-called Constitution. I think that all the debates that now depend on the concept of the Constitution and allegations, as they have been drawn up, about the devastation of the Austrian Constitution, go beyond the subject. The real problem is that we must see that Europe cannot act efficiently enough where citizens want it to be. And if, for example, we wish, as honourable Members Westenthal said, that the fight against cross-border crime is being more efficient, then we can only support it, the point is: Further progress Steps such as those already started are not possible under the condition of unanimity in the creation of will! Therefore, we need to amend the rules which allow us to take steps with a qualified majority and that not a single state prevents reasonable measures only because it pursues any self-interest. – This has the disadvantage of being able to win over even under circumstances, but we should also see that what citizens want, namely a common, coherent European foreign policy in the interests of peace in this world or a reasonable effective persecution of cross-border crime, to name only two examples, needs new rules, namely, transparent rules where everyone can see and know who is responsible for what. That is why we are in favour of this Treaty, which has perhaps been called a bit unhappy “constitution” or “constitutional agreement”: because there is a need to improve the Union's ability at all to do what citizens rightly demand – because it is not the fault of the Heads of State or Government or of the individual ministers that nothing comes out, but it is a structure in which everyone wants to have his veto! This veto needs to be overcome, and new rules are needed for that. Therefore: For this constitution! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] Leave You tell me a third thing about energy policy: Much of what has already been said in this context, especially from the government bank, is acceptable. We Social Democrats too have not only been in favour of a kerosene tax since today. And, of course, it is right to do kerosene taxation in the European context, and no one should use the excuse that it is not possible without it happening on a global scale – that is the excuse of those who want to do nothing at all. If the European Union jointly introduces a kerosene tax, this is an effective and meaningful measure, and therefore: Full support for the efforts of the Federal Government, the representative of the Austrian government, to move forward here! But let me also say a second thing, which has not yet been mentioned: I think that, in the context of the discussions on European energy policy and the further development of the internal energy market, in addition to the long-term objectives that aim to reduce greenhouse gases and the like, it also needs short-term considerations. One is – this is already happening and is also true – a diversification of the energy cover as long as it covers hydrocarbons. It is also true that not only pipelines of the suppliers, but also pipelines of the receivers are built and that, so to speak, the number of mutual extortion possibilities is reduced. But it is also important to ensure, ladies and gentlemen, that in the field of electricity, that is, electricity, we do not face fewer and less large suppliers who exercise a very large market power for all consumers – and this is a tendency that we are observing and is the concern. What we need is a variety of producers of electrical energy, and what we need is also slightly changed framework conditions, ensuring that investment can also be made in grid expansion, in spare capacity for power grids and in spare capacity for production – in case anything fails. The exclusive competitive orientation of European energy So far, policy has led to the fact that these investments are largely absent. And I think that even here, on the occasion of the discussion on energy security, it will be necessary to develop a framework for further development that would favour and not prevent these investments. In this sense, Mr President, we wish you every good thing for this European Council, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and Mrs Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e4807	Mrs Rauch-Kallat's next speech. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e4828	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! Mr Sozialminister! High house! The German Presidency has set itself many goals in this half-year, and one of the most important of all is of course what the Federal Chancellor has already done: To make Europe a people's Europe and, above all, to strengthen social cohesion in society, to ensure, and to ensure social justice in Europe through the appropriate measures. This is a multiplicity of tasks in view of the enlargement of the European Union, which now has 27 members. Many of these members of Eastern Europe, who are so close to Austria in particular from the common past, have a huge need for recovery, and Europe is required to help in this regard. But also demographic development in Europe gives rise to all efforts, because the war of the young against the old or the old against the young must definitely be prevented. And Europe and the German Presidency have also fully recognized that, in the face of demographic development, health plays a very important role, and a healthy environment has been discussed intensively in the speeches so far – keyword climate change, keyword mobility, all the things that have been my concern as a former Minister for the Environment for the Environment for many years. As far as health is concerned, the German Presidency – and I have also seen this with great joy – will be of great importance in view of the demographic development of prevention and prevention, and the work that the Austrian Presidency has also begun here will continue consistently. Although health is a national issue, it is also important internationally, because infectious diseases do not stop at the borders of individual countries. As we have seen within the framework of the developing hysteria on avian influenza, infectious diseases are a subject that can spread throughout the world within hours, especially in the case of global mobility. And here common precautions, common prevention, common crisis plans are an essential prerequisite. Germany has also undertaken to focus on HIV/AIDS and to limit its spread, especially in Africa, and to pay particular attention to it in the context of development cooperation. But if Europe is a Europe of people, Europe must also be a Europe of justice. And a key value of the European Constitution is equality or equality between women and men – and in view of the International Women's Day, I think, Europe must also: a Europe of women. This morning's women's day in particular has also brought media attention to the public. The German Presidency also attaches great importance to this issue. Especially in the framework of the 2007 European Year of Equal Opportunities, ensuring equal opportunities for all groups of the population is of particular importance. The roadmap for equality between women and men 2006 and 2010 presented by the Commission during the Austrian Presidency must be implemented consistently at national and international level. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] In fact, there is still a lot to do here – we experience it every day: Although we have long achieved equality and equality between women and men in Austria and in almost all European countries, de facto there is not much to be seen, because there are still uneven salaries, there is an uneven wage for equal work, income differences, and there is still an uneven distribution between women and men, which leads to the burden on the family world and the burden on the working world. There will be much to do here at national and international level. And the European Institute of Equal Opportunities, which is now finally becoming a reality, will also lay the appropriate scientific foundations here. At this level, we will also have to work together internationally. This also works, both for the European Union and for what the United Nations is doing. There has also been an initiative in the Austrian Presidency against traditional violence against women. We also need to keep up with this, here we must work together with African women and Muslim women, above all, to eradicate this serious injustice. We also need to protect human rights activists in all countries of the world – including international cooperation between women – and, above all, we must provide women with the appropriate support for the development of their own economic viability – even here, development cooperation, for example, with micro-credit, is on a good footing. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] There is still a lot to do in this regard. I think it must be our every concern to enforce and implement this justice between women and men not only at Austrian level, but also at European level and worldwide. In this sense, Mr President-in-Office, Mr Vice-Chancellor, Mrs Foreign Minister, I ask you to see this European summit as a summit on women's rights.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e4915	Next, Mrs Mag. Lunacek. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e4936	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! Mr Sozialminister! The German EU Presidency has two main objectives. One is the resurgence of the constitutional debates, a new start with the strengthening of the social dimension, but also a discussion with the people in order to overcome the distance that European elites, many politicians have to the population, and also, as Barroso correctly said, to strengthen the credibility of the European Union towards the population. The second objective of the German Presidency is a Europe-wide strategy against climate change. There are some good proposals here. As we have heard, they are also supported by the Austrian Federal Government – but not to the necessary extent from the point of view of us Greens. My colleagues, which I think I am talking about, will also strengthen this once again. I was somewhat disappointed yesterday in the main committee when the SPÖ and the Federal Government said that you will be very much committed to the commitment of the climate change targets, but to the objective of reducing greenhouse gases by 30 percent in Europe by 2020, the Lapidare report: We'd rather focus on others! Ladies and gentlemen! It is necessary for Austria to be committed to both the commitment of targets and this reduction by 30 percent in Europe, because that is what, as all experts say, is at least necessary in order to keep warming below the two degrees and prevent major disasters! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What should not be, however, is that this important and necessary debate on climate change distracts from the constitutional process that is necessary. It is true – and this has already been said by many of my previous speakers today – that the failed constitution, the two referenda in the Netherlands and in France, had two main points. Firstly, the lack of public participation in this process; and secondly, the lack of social dimension. First of all: It is necessary to restart this process. Merkel must wait until it is decided in France who will be President or President, but the process should have become clearer now. We from the Greens expect us from this German Presidency, from the forthcoming summit, to be made clear that there should be a new Convention, with a very strong participation of the European Parliament, but also of the national parliaments, and - and this would be the big difference to what was earlier - with the participation of civil society, i.e. social initiatives, trade unions, women's organisations and many more, which should in fact give this new constitutional process this social face for a social Europe which he has not had so far. This is what we expect from the German Presidency, and I very much hope that this will be brought in by the Federal Government. As regards the lack of democracy, which has always been subject to, even today, at least one speaker, the European Union: It is true that there is still a lack of democracy in the European Union, but Europe – I am specifically saying this, Mr Strache – is not a national concern and not a nationalist at all. Europe is a European concern for all citizens living in this Europe. And that is why we will certainly not agree to your request for a national referendum. What we've always said: There is a need for a Europe-wide referendum where all the people living in this Europe should at the same time decide on such a process of drafting. That's necessary! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: But not to be on our Austrian constitution!]] I mean all Austrians and all the people living in this Europe. [[Abg. Strache: Should the others determine our Austrian constitution?]] Secondly, social Europe. – A new Constitutional Treaty, a new approach to it, will only have a chance if the approval of the population is given, and it will only have a chance once social rights are firmly established. Klubobmann Van der Bellen mentioned this earlier: There is an initiative from mid-February to strengthen the social Europe – “Enhancing Social Europe” – by nine ministers of labour from social-democratic, but also Christian-democratic countries, where things are called for, I think, are very important in Austria too: the vision for the future of a social Europe, the increase in women’s employment, involvement of the social partners, collective bargaining and ceera. This was done by Minister of Social Affairs Buchinger on 22 July. Mr Bartenstein signed on February, but Minister of Labour said last week in the Committee that he had to examine this first. I guess he's had time to do that. Yesterday in the main committee, we unfortunately stayed alone with our request. I think it would be important for the Austrian Federal Government to support this initiative. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I hope that this too will be welcomed by all parties, because only this social Europe will actually be a Europe for all. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Finally, I would like to address a foreign policy issue, which is because tomorrow is the International Women's Day. Some of you may have seen in the last few days in international TV stations that there were large female demonstrations in Tehran for the rights of women in Iran who claimed their constitutional rights. Today we have to read in the “standard” that at least 50 of these women have been arrested and taken to the notorious Evin prison. Mrs Foreign Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you that there is also a protest at the arrests of these women within the framework of the European Council in Europe! They have peacefully protested for their rights guaranteed in the Iranian Constitution – a few are, even if you do not want to believe it – and have been arrested for it. Mrs. Foreign Minister! I hope that there will also be a protest by the European Council in the sense of the women's day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e5040	The next speaker was Mrs Rosenkranz. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e5061	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Now, Mr Vice-Chancellor, you have already said this for the second time: You have said – and I give you the right – that of course a French “non” cannot have more value than an Austrian “yes”. But, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, that's a bit too cunning. A French “non” in a referendum can of course not be more important than an Austrian “yes” in a referendum – if only this referendum would exist! Unfortunately, there is no such thing as that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! That is exactly why the citizen is rightly stunned. There is no open, not fair, not unsustainable debate, but quite the contrary: There are language arrangements, there are approvals in Brussels, and above all there is a question of avoiding votes. – This is the strategy adopted by the EU on many issues, and we want to do exactly the opposite: first, an open debate, second, an agreement at Council level with the reservation of a referendum on key issues. This is absolutely essential for us in the Constitution, and this is also a condition for us, for example, as regards Turkey or other important issues. To the Constitutional Treaty. – There's already what's going to happen here. You know from the Social Democratic Party that you must agree that you must let this happen. It cannot, as it were, allow anyone to be against it. Now you're trying to talk things up. Have you noticed, ladies and gentlemen, Klubobmann Cap has said that it is not really a proper constitution, such as the Austrian Constitution? He was corrected by the bowl and said: Yes, it is a proper constitution! We want it to be said quite clearly and that it can also be debated what it is really all about. We are convinced that it is, of course, a constitution. The sentence of the Austrian Constitution: “Your right stems from the people,” is tilted, not a question, and is replaced by a provision that at least and always EU law breaks national law. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] By the way, it is because of this alone that there is a need for a referendum. I would also like to point out that, of course, neutrality is final, because the present constitution – the other one will be no different, because that is a central point – requires us to assist, that is to say, to participate in the war; that is no less, that is to say openly. And neutrality, even limited to its core, means: Not taking part in the war. – So a contradiction. In any case, the EU Constitution will give the result. We believe that a centralist Europe is not good, but apart from the debate, the constitution is yes or no: a referendum is urgently necessary. That is why we have made a further request and made an excuse. By the way, I ask you: If the Constitution brings so many solutions – that is a constitution that creates solutions, Mr Vice-Chancellor said – then explain this to the citizen! The citizen will understand this and will agree anyway. Why, then, the fear of the referendum? Only that you do not allow this, shows that you do not disclose openly what this Constitution really is. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Secondly, Turkey. This too is an example of how little open debate is being done. Remember You, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: It was true that both the Social Democrats – I hope you will stay there and continue to do so – and the ÖVP have said: It's not that whole, it doesn't have to be, you'll see that first. So you have given the impression that you would be the saviors here before Turkey's full entry, and you have always talked about negotiations with "open outcome". Negotiations always have an open outcome, which can be concluded – or they can fail. So, in fact, this was a formulation that sold for stupid to the one who listens attentively. If you want to say quite clearly that you are not in favour of a full accession of Turkey, you have to say, of course: It is not possible to open accession negotiations for full entry. This is not possible because I intend not to end it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Here it has been made quite different: With a very gentle media coverage, the Foreign Minister has agreed to these negotiations for full entry. And facts have been created, 1.3 billion pre-accession aid has now been paid to Turkey. And I'm sure I can tell you: If the citizens do not rise up and if nothing happens, the train will be on track, and Turkey will definitely be a member of the Union! We believe that this is not good – for economic reasons, geostrategic reasons, and above all because Turkey is not a European country historically and culturally. We therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What can a citizen in a democratically run country demand from his politician? – He may demand that it be discussed openly and honestly, that the majority opinion of citizens be represented openly and self-confidently, in Brussels and everywhere, and that is what we miss. We miss, for example, the protest and mention of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany when he The Czech Republic is that there are still the Beneš decrees that there is still the Penal Liberation Act. By the way, Mr Klubobmann Schüssel: At the time, with the argument that under a common European roof, it would be easier to solve this question, many of the displaced were moved to be benevolently opposed to the accession of the Czech Republic. What about it now? What has happened, what has been the success of this question so far? - Nothing! Accession is complete, the issue is from the table. That is not acceptable, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have a very clear line on this and also on other questions: Of course, we are conscious Europeans – that is perfectly clear – we are enthusiastic Austrians, but we are not willing to sacrifice Austrian interests without delay at the Brussels altar.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e5212	First of all, I note that the motion for a resolution put forward by Mrs Lunacek before us has been properly tabled and is also under negotiation. The motion for a resolution which has now been tabled by Mrs Rosenkranz is also sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is under negotiation. These motions for resolutions are as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e5304	The next item is the speech by Mr Scheibner. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e5327	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, we are discussing a programme of an EU Presidency on important and burning issues in the European Union, but the solutions do not want and want to come. We have such thinking sports tasks, thought breaks, reflections on how to get some sort of problem back in hand, and after the end of each presidency, we are all as smart as before and waiting for the next. And then it is surprising that there is no European awareness in the population, not a European euphoria. – Well, where should they come from when you wait longing for politicians who can finally bring the answers to these burning questions of a future Europe? Mr Cap smiles. Now you are in the government – you have also confirmed this, and now we are waiting for your answers! But they don't come either. Interesting was just: The Federal Chancellor today praises the failed Constitutional Treaty and says that there is nothing better. – In 2005 his group was still quite different, because there was an opinion to the then Federal Government in which it was said: Of course, there has to be a new Convention to draw up a new European Constitution in order to remedy deficits, which exist in particular in the social and employment fields! Now that one is in the government, because one is again in this whole circle of important and nice and so humorous EU politicians, nothing more of reform is left of criticism. It would be necessary to think about the future and to develop new ideas. I have always said that this EU Constitution, the Constitutional Treaty would have been necessary, and there should not be as if we here in Parliament had not praised the successes of Austria with very, very large majority. It was also parliamentarians of all political groups, including the Freedom Party, and we all welcomed the fact that Austria has achieved a good result in this Constitutional Treaty. It would have been necessary to adopt this European Constitution. Now we're not going to be able to do it anymore. That's over. Now we have to consider new ideas, and we have introduced the idea of a core Europe, that we can finally solve this problem, that a country like Romania or Bulgaria cannot be treated exactly the same as Germany, Austria or Great Britain. There are quite simply different entrances to define. We have proposed: Let us create a core Europe! With the involvement of the population, with referendums, each country decides for itself whether it wants the whole area of European integration. Anyone who does not want to do so only takes different modules of this European integration, and on the outside there is this partnership for Europe, for all those countries that cannot or do not want to become a member of the European Union for various reasons. That would also be a solution for Turkey, because, ladies and gentlemen, the current presidency is in fact also disappearing over the core problem, which cannot be honest in this European Union. If you were honest, you would say quite clearly and clearly: A country like Turkey cannot become a full member of the European community of values! That can't be, and it won't be like that in the future. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Turkey is an important country, not a question, but rather a specific partnership between the European Union and Turkey in a few months' time. One now negotiates ten or 15 years towards full membership – I already know: with an open outcome – but then one will insist that this does not go and will deal with alternatives. Ten, 15 years of age, however, are in fact dizzying around this problem! Or climate protection: Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, that really can't be your serious! I appreciate Mr Pröll's idea, but this idea has been whispered to him by someone who is not well-seen by him. Maybe it was someone from the coalition partner. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] – I don't know, Mr Grillitsch! But he did not mean it well with him, because if the only idea you have in this regard is that the Austrians should no longer make long-distance trips – that is, the airplanes should then fly empty to Japan and Singapore, but the tourists from there we already want to have with us; only no one should fly – I must say, that may not have been a serious proposal. It would be much more reasonable – but you don't dare – to consider: Where are the pollutions of the environment to a large extent? – These are, for example, in China, in Asia, where As a result of globalisation, it is distorting competition and produced under incredible pollution at prices that are quite simply distorting competition for Europe. First of all, this would be an area where, in the sense of our economy, one should look at the fact that there is a level playing field, and secondly, it would really be a contribution to environmental protection and climate protection – not such alibi solutions, in areas that have 2 or 3 percent of the share of climate pollution, to make such absurd proposals. Or the issue of security. Ladies and gentlemen, this too is the Presidency's programme. There is a discussion about immigration numbers or common policies, but one does not dare to say that legalisation programmes from Spain, Italy and Greece, where all foreigners there are legalized every few years and can then travel around the European Union, are an invitation for all of Africa to travel to and wait for them to be legalized. It must be stopped! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That would be a European objective where we can really do something for the security of Europe! Finally, as Mrs Rosenkranz said, this aid clause meant taking part in the war. On the contrary: The aid clause is the guarantee that the European Union will also do something for our security and that we will not only always pay into the European pot. Therefore, one should support the common security and defence policy of the European Union that not America alone decides when, where and how world policy is made. We are interested in the fact that there are such areas as Afghanistan, Iraq, Sudan, and, if possible, in the way of negotiation, where possible through development aid, through cooperation, economic support, because the conflicts that exist there, the drugs that are being grown there, the people who are moving there arrive in Europe a few months later. These would be the questions that people expect answers to, but not the fact that you get into placards that you keep up the champagne glass at sect receptions and here you give some grueling speeches. Yes to Europe, but to a Europe of people – and not to a Europe of bureaucrats!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e5457	Next come Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Plassnik. 9 minutes speaking time. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e5479	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me start with a simple question: What is it, to be European, to think European, to act European? Angela Merkel has once asked this question – in all the insidious simplicity. I believe that these weeks show very clearly some components of this European thinking and action among the keywords of sustainability on the one hand, fundamental values on the other, and social cohesion, the European model of life, the balance to be worked out in everyday life between different objectives, but which, as a whole, constitute European identity. Sustainability. We must come to another action from rethinking. I think this consciousness is here. We need concrete answers to global climate change challenges. The ambitious objectives are one of the instruments, but we are measured in the implementation of these objectives. Europe is apparently ready for a “energy diet”, that is, down with the hydrocarbons, down with the non-renewable energies, up with renewable energy and also less energy consumption overall – keyword energy efficiency, which is actually only the saving, the careful, conscious handling of energy in everyday life. We must therefore find this delicate balance between competitiveness and environmental protection, between innovation and conservation. I am deeply convinced that the European economy, including the German industry, is capable of becoming a pioneer for Austrian industry, trendsetters, global trendsetters, in terms of environmental technologies, in terms of economical handling of energy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We need safe energy, and we need clean energy. Here, too, security of supply comes into play, a dimension of foreign policy that we are dealing with, with all our partners, with the strategic partners and with the Third World, where we will also be an Austrian – and I attach importance to it – in relation to Africa, in overall development cooperation. Secondly, social cohesion. It is about the design of the very concrete framework conditions for more economic and employment. We will not cease in Europe to exercise responsibility for the weaker and the more vulnerable in our societies. I say now to Mr Klubobmann Strache: Yes, we should, in the social component of this overall European responsibility, maintain the limits and state the responsibilities very precisely and always be aware of this, because it would be too easy to move responsibilities here, to make false or empty promises. I agree. I do not agree, however, if one wants to make social reality bad in Austria. The Federal Chancellor has quoted a Eurobarometer survey on the nuclear issue; I would like to quote from a survey on European Social Reality – which results from the same special effort a few weeks ago in the European Union within the framework of Eurobarometer. And there's already interesting what social reality looks like, how people feel, how they can and may and above all want to live. EU citizens are generally satisfied with their personal environment, 86 percent of Europeans with the quality of life in their narrower home country, in Austria it is 90 percent, 83 percent with their standard of living, and in Austria it is 84 percent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] 77 percent in Europe are satisfied with their medical care, in Austria it is 93 percent, ladies and gentlemen, 71 percent with the schools in their narrower home country, 76 percent in Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is, of course, not a call for self-satisfaction or even for maintaining, but: consistent everyday work, continuing to work! Keywords: Value foundation. That is where I come to speak on the constitutional debate, because here – and I see a lot of young people in Parliament today – is probably the strongest expression of this European model of life. Today, we have 500 million partners in this European project, which is the citizens of this new Europe. And what does she connect? – It also connects it with this Constitutional Treaty, which is the first joint work and which is not only limited to institutional regulations with God, but also very much about content. The Charter of Fundamental Rights is part of this modern European, this contemporary identity. That's what we're supposed to stick to. We will also work on a roadmap. In Klosterneuburg we set off the time horizon a little less than a year ago. And I am grateful to the German Presidency for pursuing ambitious goals in the awareness of the difficulty of the matter, because this Constitutional Treaty is not only the search for the best rules for our living together, but also the search for European identity. That is why we also need the consensus of all the participants, all the states involved here. I agree with the German Presidency that it will develop the cornerstones and roadmaps during the Presidency and hope that the Portuguese Presidency will then have an intensive negotiation process in the second half of the year and that, under the Slovenian Presidency, there will be a formal conclusion of this work quickly. We know that the first of the new Member States will be Slovenia by 1. January 2008 and then the ratification work during 2008. Only then will we be prepared to have clarity about the basic rules when we go to the elections to the European Parliament. One word on the value discussion. Last week we opened the European Fundamental Rights Agency, including a contribution to making legislation in Europe, so to speak, human rights conformers, and to comply with our fundamental values. The demand for the European Union as a partner in the world has been stressed. We assume this responsibility internationally. The Balkan focus – the German Chancellor mentioned it – is a matter of course for us Austrians. All foreign politicians, all federal governments and, thank God, all the parliamentary parties have also created a good foundation of credibility here. In my view, I would also like to commend the German Presidency's dealings with both the issues and the partners, for both are important. for a successful presidency. Germany has set itself ambitious and very clear goals, is committed intensively at all levels, at all “building sites” in this European Union and has what we would call in Austria as a good “G” for neighborhoods, both within the European Union and outside that European Union. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e5600	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm to speak. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e5621	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== The creation of the European Economic Community on March 50 of this year. Let's go. Following the painful experience of two World Wars, it has succeeded in creating a unique European integration area for the 27 Member States. Now it is up to us to develop Europe. The European Union must become social. People within the community of states must feel that they benefit from the EU in their daily lives. Only then can the common Europe be adopted and supported by its citizens. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years the European Union has often distanced itself from people through neoliberal policies. We as a Socialist parliamentary group have repeatedly called for a social course in the European Union. And not without pride, I refer to the government programme and the commitment of Austria to create a suitable framework for more jobs, for growth and social security. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen: The SPÖ-led government will firmly implement the newly-orientated Lisbon growth and employment strategies, because peace and security policies start where the social component is taken into account. – Whoever has a job and finds a meaning in life, who can feed himself and his family, is socially integrated into the community, will be able to identify, identify and be proud of this Europe. The concrete objectives of the German Presidency: an active youth employment policy, the reduction of high unemployment within the European Union and the promotion of SMEs – these measures now need to be implemented, also in the national states. There are great tasks to come to us here in Austria. It is a question of making Europe social, and the government programme promises to bring something in this direction. Alfred Gusenbauer stressed in his government statement: It needs a social climate of security, mutual respect and interaction in dignity, and it is part of the political task of ensuring greater cohesion in our society. – This includes measures to reduce unemployment, including measures to improve education, because education is the key to the castle if I want to reduce youth unemployment if I want to invest in qualified jobs. And how necessary this is, we have been involved in the debate over the last few days or weeks when it was about bringing 800 skilled workers to Austria, because we are going to do the same. have not been formed in the country. And here we have to put on, ladies and gentlemen. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] Finally, I would like to point out that tomorrow is the International Women's Day: We have proclaimed the Year of Equal Opportunities in the European Union, and there is still a lot to be done. I am talking about equal opportunities, more justice, even here in Austria, and there is a need for more measures to reconcile work and family life – this is also an objective of the German Presidency. We need more childcare places in Austria, we need as soon as possible – from 1. In January 2008 it will already enter into force – the flexibilization of the karenz money. It takes action for women to make this Europe fairer! – And then Europe will succeed together.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e5682	The next speaker is Mr Grillitsch. Speaking time: also 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e5703	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I miss Mr Stadler here in plenary. I hear he left. I now ask myself: from the FPÖ club or from Parliament? - That's none of my business; thank you for the information. [[Abg. Vilimsky: That's none of your business anyway!]] The topic of democracy and democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, now on the subject of German Presidency. I believe that the EU has set clear objectives to develop and secure the labour market on the one hand and to strengthen competitiveness on the other. – And there has been a lot of success: Six million more jobs in recent years, seven million more jobs in the future. I believe it is important that we have clear objectives here, but also clear mechanisms of implementation, namely science and research and the development of future-oriented technologies, thereby also establishing the agricultural and food industries, but in the future also the energy industry as a modern technology driver, especially in rural areas. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! We need clear answers to these challenges – clear answers in energy policy, clear answers on international trade issues, but also clear responses to climate change. [[Abg. Scheibner: No long distance trips!]] However, we also need a stronger – Mr Scheibner, I believe that we agree – identification of citizens with Europe. We need the expansion of diversity in the regions, and we also need the reduction of unnecessary bureaucracy and the safeguarding of a high level of consumer protection, but also the security of supply of energy. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of red tape is a major issue for farmers, including in Austria and within the EU, especially through the common agricultural policy. And I'm saying here today: We know there won't be any more money. We know we have to save. We know that the funds will be scarce. But I say one thing: If there are ever more open markets and less money in the future, there can be no more bureaucracy at the same time, there must be less bureaucracy! That's why I'm saying: Less bureaucracy and more freedom for farmers too, so that we can meet in the future what consumers and consumers want from us, namely food safety, environmentally sound and animal-friendly production. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] Now on climate. I do not understand the excitement, nor the excitement of our former coalition partner. Thank God is being discussed. Thank God is being discussed about the effects of the greenhouse effect and climate warming. And there must be the possibility of bringing in discussions, creating awareness. I have never – and I have for a long time been dealing with this issue of climate change and renewable energy sources – experienced such a sensitive discussion of how we today are grateful to God, because of course – I say – there are various approaches to this topic: While one has its “workshop” in the wild, namely, the farmers, and has a direct damage if it has 40 degrees for 40 days, others say: Man, that was a beautiful summer! – That is why this discussion, this awareness-building, is important, and therefore I am very, very grateful to the Federal Minister Josef Pröll for starting this initiative. Ladies and gentlemen, on the objectives we have in the EU, I say that these are good, great targets, but also in Austria we need clear implementation mechanisms to promote the expansion of hydropower, biomass, biogas and solar energy. That is why you allow me to conclude by submitting the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am sure you will agree to all of this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e5802	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Petra Bayr, Mr Fritz Grillitsch, Mr Grillitsch, Mr Grillitsch, has been sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e5884	The next speaker is Mrs Lichtenecker. Speaking time: also 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e5906	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Europe is a continent of opportunities, and if we look at these days, it is quite clear: Europe has a great opportunity to become a pioneer in climate protection – and this is precisely what it is about to do. At the beginning of February, a UN report clarified the following: Climate change is underway, people are centrally responsible for it, and climate change, with its disastrous effects, is also causing enormous damage costs worldwide, and we feel that in Austria. If I listen to the debate today and if the representatives of the parties come out here and confirm the importance of climate protection, I wonder: Where do we have to stand today? We should be at the forefront of climate change in Europe. But we are not, we are finally in Europe! And, of course, there's the question: Who is responsible for this? – The Environment, Transport and Economic Ministers have been responsible for this over the last ten years, all of them from ÖVP, SPÖ, BZÖ and FPÖ. Ladies and gentlemen, one must be aware of this responsibility. And I think it is now time to look forward, accept this great challenge and solve and master this future issue. If Mr Grillitsch stresses that it is good to discuss climate change, I say: Discussing is too little – we must act! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Climate experts have clearly stated that greenhouse gas emissions are to be reduced by 30 percent by 2020. And that's exactly what you have to work on. This is, of course, achievable and feasible, but we have to do it consistently, and we have to re-route it consistently. And that means: Energy consumption must fall by 20 percent by 2020! And this means that renewable energy sources must have a 20 percent share increase by 2020. This climate strategy has many building blocks on which we need to work consistently and which we need to implement. Europe has the great opportunity to be the “First Mover” here, to go to a market where it is very good. And that Europe is good in these areas, which are showing many, many companies, and that Europe can become a pioneer in climate protection, will also help people to do so. We know that people in Europe are willing to make their contribution to climate protection. Now it is about recognizing and taking advantage of the opportunities. An active climate strategy will create 100 000 jobs in Austria alone. On Thursday and Friday, the EU Council will decide whether climate change will continue to be discussed or whether the necessary steps will finally be taken. Mr Bundeskanzler, on Thursday and Friday you have to make clear your commitment to a courageous and active climate strategy, which means: Out of oil and atom, pure in energy efficiency and renewable energies! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In this sense, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen in Parliament, I would like to ask you today to support our motion for a resolution in order to secure the climate, in the sense of sustainable development.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e6030	The resolution just tabled by Dr Ruperta Lichtenecker, Dr. Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues and colleagues are sufficiently supported and are therefore involved in the negotiations. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e6109	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e6131	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bundeskanzler, what you said in your statement this morning on the subject of the EU Presidency of the Federal Republic of Germany and on the EU summit this week, unfortunately, was God's far-reaching journeys to the withdrawn European beautiful speeches that will not succeed in winning people for the Europe project. There are clear political steps that could be taken from your side, Federal Chancellor. And we liberals will not let go of reminding you. So you visited the Czech Republic a few days ago, and rightly a colleague of mine asked: How, Mr. Federal Chancellor, does it look now with the Beneš decrees? What is it like with this permanent human rights violation within the framework of the European Union community of values, which we always put in the foreground? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have here – I can remind you – taken unanimous decisions: not only that the Republic of Austria assumes the role of defence over South Tyrol, but also that we strive to give our support to the displaced, but also to the German minorities in the Central and South Eastern European countries. Mr Bundeskanzler, that would have been a concrete step you should have taken! In order to help you do so, I must allow myself to make the following request from the Freedom Party concerning Croatia: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is a concrete step that you, Mr Bundeskanzler, and also the Foreign Minister and Mr Vice-Chancellor can take in the next few weeks! The German Presidency has made a positive contribution to the increased use of German as an official and working language in the European Union. For us liberals, this is a crucial question in relation to the proximity of citizens that European peoples and cultures are also equal in the use of their language. I therefore allow myself to make the following request: Resolution by Dr. Reinhard Eugen Bösch, Heinz-Christian Strache, Barbara Rosenkranz and others concerning the equal use of the German language as an EU language alongside English and French The National Council wants to decide: The competent members of the Federal Government are invited to use the German language as a language of procedure in addition to English and French during the negotiations at EU level in the relevant Councils and in particular during the German EU Presidency. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Since the Foreign Minister mentioned the agency for human rights which was recently opened in Vienna, I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to introduce another aspect with regard to increased citizens' proximity, which would be necessary. Nothing, Mrs Foreign Minister, is unnecessary more than this human rights agency! Throughout Europe, all these agencies that we have set up across Europe cost us more than € 1 billion a year. It would be high time to explore this abundance of agencies. I am of the firm conviction, Federal Chancellor, Mrs Foreign Minister, that more than half of these are completely unnecessary. The human rights agency here in Vienna does nothing but what the European Court of Human Rights has been doing for decades for the citizens of Europe as a whole. And now the division of work, Mrs Minister, has only been carefully pushed forward. We can't accept that! This agency is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e6291	The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e6319	I'll take up the interrupted session again and ask everyone to take a seat again. Mr. Dr. Bösch has another 30 seconds of speaking time. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e6344	Thank you, Mr President. – What this Federal Government should do on the question of the European Union is, from a liberal point of view, what it can really do in its competence. Mr Bundeskanzler, you will again announce that there will be a Europe-wide referendum on a new Constitutional Treaty, and you will appear here in Austria with a broken face and say that unfortunately it has not been possible to enforce it at European level. That's why we ask you, and that's why we advise you: Make an Austrian referendum! – We can decide this with our competence here – and you as the head of government too! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] As chairman of an opposition party, Mr Bundeskanzler, you are still opposed to a full accession of the Republic of Turkey. Now you are sitting in the Councils, and I urge you to vote against the continuation of the accession negotiations with Turkey in the next vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e6395	The two motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Bösch, Mr Dr. Bösch, Mr Strache and Mr Rosenkranz, and Mr Dr. Bösch, Mr Strache and Mr Graf, have been sufficiently supported and are therefore involved in the negotiations. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e6489	Next, Mr Magistrate. Darmann for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e6511	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! At the outset, I would like to quote from the German Presidency programme on the subject of the area of freedom, security and justice: The creation of an area of freedom, security and justice remains the central task of European policy. The citizens of Europe expect decisive action by the EU to safeguard their freedom interests and their security needs, especially in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. Only intensive police and judicial cooperation between Member States can guarantee internal security in an area without internal borders in the future. The objective is to increase security at open internal borders while strengthening citizens' rights and creating greater legal certainty. - Quote. But now I'm wondering: How are these demands for the creation of an area of freedom and security, respect for the interests of freedom and the security of citizens, and finally the objective of “more security” to link with the ideas of Minister of Justice Berger in implementing a detention programme? Minister of Justice Berger calls it a prison relief program – we say to this arrest program à la Broda of the 1970s, which pursues a vision of a prisonless society. With us, there will be no such thing! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] How is it compatible with the security needs of Austrian citizens, including European citizens, for financial reasons, to release foreign criminals who are in prison in Austria after half the term of imprisonment? Foreign criminals, most of whom are guilty for organised crime, are expected to be able to return to their country of origin voluntarily after half the term of detention according to the Ministry of Justice's plans. I ask the Federal Minister – unfortunately she is not present today –: How does that work? What will the other Member States of the European Union say about this? First, with great financial effort and personal use of the executive, the perpetrators are arrested, then sentenced by an independent court to a prison sentence, and finally these persons are released after half the term of detention, so that they can have an additional burden in the area of executives, since they must monitor the ban on residence. It really can't be! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This programme or this idea of the Minister of Justice is justified by the financial burden on the judicial area. Their programme, however, leads much more to a shift in the load to the field of internal security. By the way, the ban on her stay, which she claims, applies only to the Republic of Austria. Regardless of the fact that it will be difficult to justify to almost impossible why a foreign offender should generally be milder to judge than an Austrian criminal, the question of how the other Member States should be taken into account is also raised in order to step up their national controls in order to protect their people from the crimes committed by us until now. If, on the basis of increased crime across Europe, the prisons are burdened with, it is important to take more money to increase the planning points for judges, prosecutors and judicial guards, and not to solve the problem with open prison gates. As an example, I would like to cite the 2006 drug report, which states that every second foreigner is behind bars because of a drug crime. – How does the Minister of Justice Berger explain to the Austrian and European people that a drug dealer who has been sentenced to three years in prison in Austria should be released from prison after a year and a half, voluntarily return to his home country and thus the danger of this person’s criminal action again throughout Europe? It is hard to understand that this one will try to return to the European area to pursue its criminal actions. We are against this vision of a prisonless society. The protection interest of the European and, above all, the Austrian population is calling for the observance and full execution of the sentence – and not premature dismissal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e6593	From the government bank, Mr Buchinger, next Mr. Federal Minister, spoke. I'll set the speaking time for you at the agreed 9 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e6616	Mr President. Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! High house! The new Austrian Federal Government has clearly become a strong, modern and social Europe in its government programme, but also in its activities during the first two months of its term of office. This includes the formulation in the government programme that we attach great importance to the deepening of the community of values and the strengthening of the European model of life or social model with the offset of social security, economic dynamics and sustainability, and that we take action at European level for the creation of common European minimum standards in the fields of employment and social affairs. I draw from these statements, also for me as the Minister of Social Affairs, the important task of addressing the fundamental issue in terms of content and strengthening it nationally and internationally, and the fundamental question from my social policy point of view is: How can the quality of life and prosperity of people in Europe be safeguarded and enhanced? – Growth and employment are very, very important goals, but with content they will only be met if they work towards securing and expanding the prosperity and quality of life of people in Europe. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] To this end, a sober finding of three short key figures at the beginning of political development is helpful. First of all: Yes, unemployment has also fallen at European level in recent months – that is good, that is also due to common policies – but it is still at a level that gives rise to all major political efforts. 17 million people are Europe-wide without work, including nearly 6 million young people and young adults. Secondly, 67 million people in the European Union are at risk of poverty. That is 16 percent of the European population; almost every sixth European/European is at risk of poverty. The third major challenge – the foreign minister has mentioned it – is that we know that by 2050 the number of over 80-year-olds by 172 percent – 172 percent! – will increase; in absolute terms: 32 million more than 80-year-olds in Europe. Overall, however, the population will fall by almost 2%. Of course, within the countries of the European Union there are great differences in the interpretation of the different indicators, but the challenges are similar for all Member States and for all people in those countries and can only be solved by close cooperation. The single market, with its four freedoms, was an essential achievement of European policy, but it has partially put pressure on employment and social protection, and has brought pressure on them to reject, compensate for, and continue to apply. What three conclusions do I draw from this as Minister of Social Affairs? - For one thing: The importance of these social challenges and their management must be at the centre of European policy in order to reach the agreement of the European people, the people of Europe, for this European policy. When President Barroso says that he is at the summit on the occasion of the 50th. Anniversary of the Romans Treaties will propose that solidarity and social cohesion be identified as one of five key elements of the European Union, then, I think, it lies to ensure that it is politically valid and deserves our support. All policy areas in the European Union, economic, employment and social policy, are interconnected, must complement and support each other – in the sense of what we have formulated in the government programme: Social protection is a productive force that can contribute to the development of growth and employment! What President-in-Office of the Council and Vice-Cancecian Munich from Germany have said is to regain something, to regain something: the primacy of politics on the formation of social conditions, because if this is not done by politics, the other institutions will be transferred with less social responsibility or take on it. I derive from this three options for action: the firm commitment to common European minimum standards and also the installation of minimum standards in international trade agreements. I think that employment and social affairs can help bring about such minimum standards and at the same time ensure a level. The German Presidency has rightly referred to the aspects of good work in this context, which are: Development of workers' rights, equal opportunities, health and safety at work, family-friendly organisation of the working world. This includes fair wages with development – in Germany – towards collective agreements and – in Austria, established in the government programme – general collective agreement. In the draft conclusions for the European Council on 8 and 9. flexicurity is also a strong commitment to flexicurity as a combination of flexibility and safety. As a Social Minister, I always see my responsibility in seeing that the aspect of security – security – is not too short in the field of flexicurity, but is well-balanced and politically pursued. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Where legally binding minimum standards are not possible or politically unenforceable, the non-binding objectives have proved to be politically meaningful for convergence in the open method of coordination. Poverty reduction, social inclusion, pensions, health and long-term care are the topics for this method. The European Council will welcome the joint report on social protection and social inclusion in a few days. I can say here today that we will review the Austrian contribution to this report in the coming weeks and months and will incorporate into this revision the new, advanced principles in the field of minimum insurance, in the field of care insurance and in the field of pension insurance. My third conclusion is – I conclude – that the Lisbon strategy for growth and employment must be integrated. I also support the wording in the draft for the conclusions that better account should be taken of the common objectives of the European Union with regard to social policy in these integrated strategies. We have also done this in our government's clause for Austria, from future investment in research and development through education to Social protection as a productive force. All of this serves to strengthen the European social model, and all of this also serves to strengthen the willingness of the citizens of Austria, to expand and deepen European integration. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has rightly mentioned the importance of supporting many of these items in Austria, but we also have some of the problems that are in the policy of increasing our activity here, for example when, after the Eurobarometer, 51 percent of the population in Austria say, each person carries the risk of becoming poor once in life. Consider 40 percent as their main concern unemployment, and 46 percent say their work requires too much of them and is associated with too much stress. You see, social policy is also a field of great effort – and I hope for great success at national and European level.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e6730	We are now coming to the last round of political groups. In view of the advanced times, I shall fix the speaking times of the individual speakers by 3 minutes, so that all the political groups can still speak. First speaker in this round is Mrs Csörgits; 3 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e6754	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! I am very glad that Mr Buchinger has stressed the need for the European Union to devote even more importance and importance to the field of social policy in the future, because the number of unemployed we have in Europe is still too high, and the number of people in Europe who are poor or are being given up on poverty is also too high. If we want people in this Europe to feel comfortable again that they are seeing future prospects in Europe, then it is necessary that fair action be taken and a consistent and targeted social policy is made in this Europe. The Austrian Federal Government has stated in its Government Convention that it will focus on the issue of “combating unemployment” and also contains many positive approaches to a targeted social policy. Therefore, I am also sure that our government representatives will contribute accordingly to the EU summit in Germany and ensure that Europe will become social. An important area, ladies and gentlemen, for the EU Presidency of the Federal Republic of Germany has been put in the direction that a particularly important factor in social policy must be the quality of work. The quality of work has, of course, taken on an ever-increasing and central role in discussions in the individual Member States. “Good work” means to me – and that has already been tailored by the Federal Minister – that there must be fair wages, that there must be protection against health risks at work, that the rights of workers can be respected and developed accordingly. “Good work” also includes for me the great chapter of the better compatibility of work and private and, of course, that it is a real one. Equal opportunities policy for women. It is necessary to make every effort in the area of the European Union, in its own country, but also in the area of the European Union, to ensure that women have more opportunities to get to leadership positions, including the economy, the public sector, the interest groups, and political parties, all that means that there is a reduction up to a combination of income shears. And, ladies and gentlemen, it is also necessary to create more care facilities for children as well as for people in need of care. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is time and it is now time to pool the forces, to implement measures and to pursue a social Europe. I wish our representatives all the best. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e6805	The next speaker is Mr Neugebauer; Talk time also 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e6827	Ladies and gentlemen! Members of the Federal Government! Mr President. Dear colleagues! Anniversarys, anniversaries have it in themselves that you look back a little bit, but legitimately also forward. If I am aware of the preparation of the German Presidency, I can say that with a short look back not too far into the past: Austria delivered an excellent presidency a year ago, which now also opens the way for the Germans to continue working consistently in many areas! – We can congratulate ourselves with some pride. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This can not only be tied to the anchoring of the Austrian model of life – as it has been quoted today – with the eco-social market economy. Also with sensitivity: Europe is listening!, it is clear that the distance between the citizens and the European bodies should be reduced a little. I would like to thank you very much for the fact that today, by all the members of the government present, unisono has been presented with different examples, that, while the constitutional debate is about to preserve the substance, the emphasis on the social dimension in European integration must be placed on it. Mrs. Federal Minister, Dr. Plassnik, has made it clear in many examples from which level we can assume in the benchmark compared with other countries. I would also like to express my gratitude to you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, that you would like to introduce the question of employee participation, as we have developed in Austria, as an export product for other countries. The fact that good social systems, Dr. Buchinger, are of course important to productivity is undisputed. I think that our high level of social security also promotes confidence in the institutions and consensus, and thus also a stronger willingness to use. Here the Federal Government has already done much in the first days of its responsibility. It will also be the primacy of education, which the Federal Chancellor stressed, will make clear in Berlin. The fact that we do not expect huge progress has shown the history of the development of the European Union. One of the founders, Robert Schuman, said: Europe will not come about in one day, it will come about through many actions! – May these summits be another very important step! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But one, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot understand – with some of the opposition’s speakers, not Dr. Cap – that he, Dr. Cap, spoke as if he were a counter-redner in the debate. I had this impression. My wife kept a sentence from a dear teacher in her parent book: “Optimism is the floating belt for the electricity of life.” – This also applies to the handling of the huge challenges in Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e6884	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Moser; Talk time also 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e6905	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Sozialminister! And above all, Mr Vice-Chancellor, you have now shown an essential dimension of Europe, which must be expanded, namely the social dimension of Europe – without it, there will be no acceptance; I underline that. Mr Minister, you may be far from aware of what is being done at this European level in the area of wrong subsidies and promotion policy, at the expense of this social competence. Did you know that the European Environment Agency has recently published data – the question is also addressed to Mr Vice-Chancellor – after which €300 billion of transport subsidies are made annually in Europe? Mr Sozialminister! €300 billion in transport subsidies for the transfer of our jobs to low-cost countries: These €300 billion of subsidies often serve to reduce traffic – beyond the cost-truth – that we have daily truck columns on our Austrian motorways and that this has increased by 40 percent. That's why I'm showing you my table now. [[The speaker holds a sign in the height on which a truck ban is shown.]] These 300 billion subsidies go into the wrong tanks! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At European level, we urgently need cost-effectiveness! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Can we see that again?]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Again!]] Then we have money for the interests, Mr Social Ministers, for the interests of your security policy, and also for your environmental tax policy, Mr Finanzminister, Mr Vice-Chancellor Molterer, who would be interested in me. That is a European question, but also an Austrian question. I could call you some more numbers. I could tell you that this false subsidisation of transport policy – even according to the latest figures – shortens life by 4 million years of life in the year: 4 million years of life – the figures I have here from an agency – are fewer across Europe! Based on Austria, this means that half of the Austrian population lives a year shorter because emissions from transport are harmful to health. This is the wrong policy of the EU, which we urgently need to reverse! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Can you write this to a Taferl?]] I very much hope that at this climate summit you, Mr Bundeskanzler, will focus on it, you, Mr Social Minister, will be behind it, that the billions will shift, and that you, Mrs Foreign Minister, will at last promote to your colleagues that we need cost truth on the road for a social Europe. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e7015	The next speaker is Mr Vilimsky. Speaking time: also 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e7036	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government! High house! In the course of a parliamentary round here on the European debate, I can hold a few interesting observations. I think the interesting thing came today from the clubman of the Social Democratic Group, Dr. Cap, who has held on the subject of Zwentendorf: We prevented it. – I think I have something wrong in historical chronology, but I remember that it was Mr. Bundeskanzler Kreisky and the then SPÖ government that put us in Zwentendorf! There are other interesting perceptions, for example from the Federal Chancellor out of service and now a clubman Wolfgang Schüssel, who has let us know: 86 percent of Austrians like this European Union, that's something good, we are happy about it! – Mr Bundeskanzler out of service and Klubobmann! [[Abg. Dr. stupid: No, he didn't say that! You didn't watch!]] I wonder, Where did you hide these 86 percent of the Austrians? [[Abg. Prince: At which session were you...?]] – I am on the road a lot, and I do not know anyone who rejoices over this Brussels course. Another interesting observation: Mr. Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance Molterer have made us believe that we Austrians voted in favour of the European Constitution. - Who is this, Mr. Vice-Chancellor? Was that you at the time? Was it Mr. Bundeskanzler Schüssel at the time? Was it the Social Democrats? Was it the government? Was it the coalition fractions? 182 people voted in favour of this Constitution – a person not, that is our Barbara Rosary! What we want is for the Austrians to vote on it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups! They have today drawn a picture of this European Union, which is just a rusty one. Of course, the situation is different. Take, for example, the Court of Auditors' income report, which shows a real income loss of 2 percent for the years 1998 to 2005: not that people could benefit from the increase in purchasing power and have up to 10 percent more in purchasing power, no, they have a minus of 2 percent to take! It has hit the pensioners particularly hard. That is why it is disappointing that the SPÖ, which would have been almost so far to give an initiative the consent that pensioners could receive more pensions this year, unfortunately, has preferred the neoliberal ÖVP “Eiskaspolitik”. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The ÖVP has been selected, the SPÖ has promised the social turnaround. Minister of Finance Grasser, who enjoys the lives of the rich and the beautiful in Capri, Mauritius, was gone – fortunately! – and there was a promise to bring about a social turnaround. Come from Salzburg, I would almost say a social revolutionary, almost a bit with the Nimbus of a Che Guevara. There were the hair a little longer, now they are shorter; it is firmly anchored in the establishment of this government. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] I have almost the impression that the SPÖ gives up its social conscience in these negotiations on the Chamber of Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e7119	Mr President, your speaking time is exhausted! One final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e7135	I put another motion for a resolution, namely...
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e7156	It's too late for that! I'm sorry, colleague. [[In the case of the FPÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. Vilimsky.]] The next and last speaker is Mrs Haubner. Also 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e7189	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! Today we have heard a lot about Austria being an economically successful country and that Austria is above all a country with social peace. I am particularly saying this because we have been offensively faced with social policy challenges in recent years. Social policy, ladies and gentlemen Ladies and gentlemen, it is a national task! It is very likely that the European Union can set objectives which are more or less non-binding, but one must act in the country itself. We have acted in the sense that social security must meet the needs of today's generation without endangering the opportunities of future generations! There was the approach for us especially to secure pensions in a sustainable way and above all to strengthen the families. Ensuring pensions and strengthening families – so far we have been a European premiere country. It is gratifying that during its Presidency, Germany is also putting families at the centre of European action. Pensions ensure sustainable through a uniform, transparent system, greater justice between men and women, the three-pillar model with the corresponding finishing new as employee care and, above all, with flexible access from acquiring the pension – this is a good package of measures. And I am very glad that the new government – contrary to promises before the election – no longer pins this package, because it is a security package for the boys, for the next generations! [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] We have always been concerned about strengthening the family and combating the poverty of families and children in this area. Of course, we are still too high with 13 percent, but thank God for the EU cut. Therefore, I also say that the measures for families – such as child care and all benefits – have reduced the risk of poverty. I very much hope that this government will not call into question the proven family benefits, but will optimise them, and that families will be able to continue to relieve them, above all, tax quickly. A third area, which plays an important role in the European Union in addition to family strengthening, is equal access to care and health care. Here I call on the government to speedily carry out the homework in Austria. work for a system that gives people the opportunity to grow old in dignity, self-determined, but above all in their own four walls. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] Do not question the individual care allowance, but increase it They are also quick to achieve this important family and care policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e7250	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote; I can ask all the ladies and gentlemen to take their seats. First, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members, Mr Strache, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on the implementation of a new ratification process in all Member States of a new constitution for the European Union. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Lunacek, ladies and gentlemen, on ‘New momentum for a social Europe’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rosenkranz, colleagues, on the effect of an immediate termination of the negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Turkey to the European Union. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bayr, Mr Grillitsch, Mr President, on the examination of fiscal measures to finance supranational tasks such as European Union own funding, climate change and development cooperation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. - That's the majority. The application is therefore accepted. (E 10.) We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr Lichtenecker, colleagues on the position of the Austrian Federal Government on European climate and energy policy at the EU Council on 8 and 9. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Bösch, colleagues on the equal use of the German language as an EU language alongside English and French. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bösch, colleagues, on agreements between the Republics of Austria and Croatia on the restitution or compensation to Austrians, whose property was state-owned or expropriated by the former Yugoslav State following the Second World War. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. [[13:02:26]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00013_d8e7390	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications 117/A and 118/A were tabled. Questions 458/J to 460/J have also been raised. I call the next meeting of the National Council for today, 13.02 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting –. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. This meeting is closed.
