ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e3458	The meeting was opened. I very much welcome the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, who is among us. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can ask you to rise from your seats. [[Those present rise from their places.]] [[09:05:31]] Griefing
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e3498	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! On New Year's Eve Day, Mrs. Lese Prokop died completely surprisingly for all. She was a woman who moved a lot – as a sportswoman, as a politician. We all like to remember their great and great sporting successes. She had been active in the five battles. Five battles are a sport in which she had to prove her ability continuously and in various ways. – This also applies to politics. Ms Liese Prokop, Federal Minister, went there until the end of her journey. We all know this long successful path until December 2004, when Lese Prokop was appointed as the first woman to the office of the Minister of the Interior. In this function, it has until the last negotiations with the coalition talks. Our compassion is particularly true of the family of Lies Prokop. I would ask you to commemorate Mrs Lies Prokop at this minute. [[Those present persist for some time in silent mourning.]] Thank you. [[Those present take their seats again.]] The official protocols of the 6th and 7ths. Meeting of 14. ==References== ==References== In December 2006, the European Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Kuzdas and Rudas. [[09:07:28]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e3561	From the Federal Election Authority, the messages have been received that Deputies Dr. Martin Bartenstein, Dr. Alfred Brader, Dr. Ulrike Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Doris Bures, Mag. Norbert Darabos, Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer, Dr. Reinhold Lopatka, Christine Marek, Dr. Christoph Matznetter, Mag. Wilhelm Molterer, Dr. Ursula Plassnik, Günther Platter and Heidrun Silhavy have renounced their mandates. Instead of Deputies Dr. Martin Bartenstein, Deputies Johannes Zweytick, instead of Deputies Dr. Alfred Brader of Deputies Mag. Peter Eisenschenk and instead of Deputies Dr Ulrike Baumgartner-Gabitzer of Deputies Mag. Peter Michael Ikrath is appointed to the National Council. The mandate of Deputies Doris Bures was given to Deputies Laura Rudas and the free mandate of Deputies Mag. Norbert Darabosder Deputies named Katharina Pfeffer. Mr. Gabriele Binder-Maier and his mandate became Mr. Dkfm. Dr. Hannes Bauer. The term of office of Dr Reinhold Lopatkaer held by the honourable Member Jochen Pack, the term of office of Deputies Christine Marekdie Deputies Gabriele Tamandl and that of Deputies Dr Christoph Matznetterde Deputies Sonja Ablinger. The power by the abandonment of Mr. Vice-Chancellor. Wilhelm Molterer's mandate became a member of parliament Dr. Reinhold Mitterlehner and his mandate was given to Deputies Ing. Norbert Kapeller. Furthermore, the term of office of Mr Günther Platter has been called to the National Council by Members Astrid Stadler and by Mr Michael Ehmann instead of by Mr Heidrun Silhavy. As the electorate is already present and the members of the House are present, I will immediately make their fishing observation. As Mrs Rudas is apologised for today, their fishing will take place at a later date. After reading the vow formula and by calling for a name by the writer, the new ambassadors/mandata women will have to do their fishing with the words “I promise”. I am now asking Mrs. Fekter to read the vow formula and the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e3805	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.” On behalf of Dr. Fekter, the following Members, on behalf of the scribe Dr Fekter, make the fishing observation with the words “I promise”: Sonja Ablinger, Dkfm. Dr. Hannes Bauer, Michael Ehmann, Mag. Peter Eisenschenk, Mag. Peter Michael Ikrath, Ing. Norbert Kapeller, Jochen Pack, Katharina Pepper, Astrid Stadler, Gabriele Tamandl and Johannes Zweytick.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e3897	I warmly welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] [[09:11:13]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e3924	The Federal Chancellor has received the following letter: 'Dear Madam President! I have the honour to say that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 11. January 2007,... the Federal Government responsible for managing the administration as well as the State Secretary at the Federal Chancellor's Office, the State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the State Secretary in the Federal Ministry of Finance, the State Secretary in the Federal Ministry of Social Security, Generations and Consumer Protection and the State Secretary in the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology. With Best Greetings’ I take this opportunity to express a warm word of thanks and recognition for their activity in the service of the Republic of Austria to the outgoing members of the Federal Government and the State Secretary. There is also a letter from the Federal Chancellor concerning the appointment of the members of the new Federal Government: 'Dear Madam President! I have the honour to say that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 11. January 2007,..., has appointed me Federal Chancellor in accordance with Article 70(1) Constitutional Law. Furthermore, in accordance with Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act, the President of the Federal Government has on my proposal Mr Mag. Wilhelm Molterer as Deputy Chancellor and Federal Minister for Finance, Dr. Ursula Plassnik, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Claudia Schmied, Federal Minister for Education, Science and Culture, Dr. Andrea Kdolsky, Federal Minister for Health and Women, Mr. Günther Platter, Federal Minister for the Interior, Dr. Maria Berger, Federal Minister for Justice, Mr Mag. Norbert Darabos as Minister of State Defense, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröll is the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management, Dr. Erwin Buchinger as the Federal Minister for Social Security, Generations and Consumer Protection, Werner Faymann as the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology, Dr. Martin Bartenstein as the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour, and under Article 70(1) in conjunction with Article 78(1) of the Federal Constitution Act, Ms Doris Bures is appointed Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology, and Dr. Johannes Hahn Hahn is the Federal Minister without a portfolio. In addition, in accordance with Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act, the Federal President appointed Dr. Reinhold Lopatka as Secretary of State and Ms Heidrun Silhavy as Secretary of State and gave me support in the management and parliamentary representation, Dr. Hans Winkler appointed the Secretary of State to support the management and parliamentary representation of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, appointed Dr. Christoph Matznetter as the State Secretary and attached him to the Federal Minister of Finance for Management and Parliamentary Representation, appointed Ms. Christa Kranzl as the State Secretary and to support the Management and Parliamentary Office of the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and technology, and appointed Ms Christine Marek as Secretary of State and attached her to the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour to support in the management and parliamentary representation." I wish all the members of the Federal Government and the State Secretary the best success for their work in the service of the Republic of Austria! Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4104	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4322	I also announce that the First Report of the Incompatibilities Committee was distributed to all members of the National Council. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4340	The BZÖ Parliamentary Club has, according to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested the written question 247/J by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues in the Federal Minister for Social Security, Generations and consumer protection on social democratic breach of trust in social policy. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4370	At the Presidential Conference, consensus was reached over a day-block period of 10 Vienna hours. For the transfer of the meeting by the ORF from 9.05 a.m. to 5 p.m., the following time arrangements were made: Federal Chancellor 60 minutes each, one speech per group of 20 minutes, Vice-President 30 minutes, one word per group of 12 minutes, two members of the government by 6 minutes, one word per group of 5 minutes, two members of the government by 6 minutes, one word per group by 5 minutes, two members by 6 minutes, one word per group by 4 minutes, two members by 6 minutes, one word per group by 4 minutes, two members by 6 minutes, two members by 6 minutes, one by group by 4 by 6 minutes, two members by 4 minutes, two members by 6 minutes, one by group by 4 minutes. With a view to a day block period of 10 ‘Vienna hours’, the following period of time remaining for the post-TV transmission of the individual fractions shall remain: SPÖ and ÖVP each 97, Green and FPÖ 57 and BZÖ 2 minutes. It was also agreed to interrupt the meeting from 13 a.m. to 1 p.m. If necessary, the President-in-Office of the Council will ensure that the remaining television speaking time is divided in the last rounds in such a way that all speakers speak evenly. This applies now, of course, before 3 p.m. after the urgent request is made at 3 p.m. It has been agreed that, after each block of words by members of the government, the speakers of the political groups are speaking counter and pro. There is agreement to call actual corrections only after the television broadcast. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[09:18:10]] Declaration by the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4426	We now come to the only item on the agenda: Declaration by the Federal Government. Following this declaration, a debate will be held within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request made by five Members. I now give the floor to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to give the statement.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4455	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Madam President of the National Council! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Whatever we politicians do, whatever we want to do in the next four years, we focus on Austria and the well-being of the Austrians. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] For this reason, it is a great honour to be able to present to you today as the Federal Chancellor the programme of the new Federal Government in its basic features. But before I go into the plans for the future, allow me to look back briefly. ==References== In October 2006, the voters in our country made their decision. The outcome of the National Council elections has made Austrian Social Democracy the strongest and strongest political group in Parliament, followed by the Austrian People's Party. My aim was to fulfil the mandate of the President of the Federal Government to form a new federal government in such a way as to achieve the most stable government possible for this legislative period. I therefore invited the chairman of the second strongest party, Dr Wolfgang Schüssel, to negotiate. All of you, ladies and gentlemen, know the course of these negotiations, which were very difficult in stages. On both sides not always had great confidence. Deeply there and there may also have been injuries and reservations arising from the conflicts between government and opposition in recent years. Finally, two parties have also negotiated with each other, which in many respects have different views and programmes. I say this very openly here and today because these differences will not suddenly have disappeared. In view of the outcome of the elections, euphoria may also have contributed to irritation on the one hand and disappointment on the other. These have now been cleared out. Instead, the awareness that the willingness to compromise and cooperate is one of the essences of democracy has become a common joy and confidence to lead our country into a good future in the years to come. Finally, both negotiators have also been aware of their responsibility to the Sovereign, to the citizens of our country. The election result was a task for cooperation if you want to have a stable federal government. And so we have agreed a cooperation between the S & D Party and the Austrian People's Party for the next four years – with a very ambitious program that carries the manuscript of both partners. Another open word: Major coalitions are under a certain general suspicion. The interplay between government and opposition would be eliminated by a too large parliamentary majority, pro-poor and post-checkers would be on the agenda, and some other accusations could be listed more. But let's think back. We note that there have been times when great coalitions have actually done great things – such as the reconstruction of our country after the disaster of National Socialism or the accession of Austria to the European Union. On the other hand, we can also remember periods of standstill and blockade. Large coalitions are neither good nor bad in themselves. It is about what the two partners do, how they deal with each other, how open they are to opposition proposals and initiatives or from outside Parliament. In short, it is about whether the dangers are being hit or the chances of such cooperation being used. We are faced with this challenge, ladies and gentlemen, of which I am aware, of which my colleagues in the Federal Government are aware – and this will ultimately also be the performance of this federal government. And tasks await us to a sufficient extent. The responsibility is great. I would like to outline the fundamental objectives of the new Federal Government before I want to deal with individual issues. I am based on the wishes and concerns of people in our country. What do the Austrians expect from politics today? They expect – this shows all personal encounters and conversations – no wonder things, they have a very realistic picture of what politics is capable of doing. People in Austria want to have opportunities to develop, to stand on their own feet and to live their lives the way they imagine it. They want to be well prepared for the future. They want fair conditions, a fair balance of rights and obligations, they want performance to be rewarded. And they want so much social warmth and security that they can live in dignity, even if they suffer a fate. They don't want to be afraid of old age, and they want their children and grandchildren to be good, even better than themselves. We live in a good and also in a relatively rich country. Nevertheless, few people have the impression that they are not so good, or are concerned that their children will once be worse than themselves. Many of these fears focus on globalisation or seemingly unchangeable developments. Undoubtedly: International conditions, whether the international economy or the development of the global climate, can only be limited by politics here in Austria. In politics, on the other hand, we should not act as if there were no more spaces of design at all, as if we had always had to give up on matters from the outside without any contradictions. No, the task of politics is to create as many opportunities for people as possible for the future and to give protection and security wherever possible. Individual performance needs to be promoted, while at the same time a social climate of security, mutual respect and interaction needs to be fostered in dignity. It is part of our task to ensure greater cohesion in our society. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This basic attitude, this balance shape this federal government, and it is also guided by the plans of the new government. We will stimulate economic growth and combat unemployment, increase the competitiveness of the economy of our country and pursue a sound budgetary policy, develop and financially secure our social and health systems, increase poverty reduction, improve opportunities for both citizens and businesses with offensive education and research policies, strengthen women's opportunities in our society and take great steps towards gender equality, promote open and living art and cultural life, maintain high quality of life and the environment in our country, ensure the highest possible level of internal and external security to protect people, strengthen democracy and fundamental rights with a state and administrative reform, and strengthen the country's internal structure for the requirements of the 21st century. In the century, and actively and comprehensively in the European Union, and in general strengthen international cooperation and work for peace in the world as a top priority. Work, ladies and gentlemen, is out of our common conviction the best condition for a self-determined, self-responsible life. That is why we want to significantly reduce unemployment, at least by a quarter and thus by less than 4 per cent until the end of this legislative period. I know that's an ambitious goal, and some think, an unattainable one. But I'm fully convinced: It is to be done and we will also achieve it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] To this end, we are relying on intensive programmes to promote economic growth. Special priorities will be the further increase in the promotion of research and development, as well as significant investments in infrastructure. It is particularly important to us that the young people in Austria are not on the road. With an educational guarantee up to the age of 18, we want to drastically reduce the proportion of young people without vocational training or schooling, increase employment opportunities accordingly, and thus fight youth unemployment in a sustainable way. With the maintenance of special resources for active labour market policies and a national action programme for older workers, we will reduce unemployment. We will also intensify the fight against black entrepreneurship and black work, for example through increased control and higher sanctions. However, we also want to improve the quality of jobs and establish a single modern worker concept. The growing number of atypical workers will be better safeguarded socially. The Federal Government is committed to a social and ecologically sustainable market economy in fair competition. The development and improvement of the international competitiveness of the economic location within the framework of the European Partnership for Growth and Employment is a declared objective. A special focus will be placed on the Federal Government with special measures in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises. We want to ensure that favourable capital is provided for necessary investments, that business transfers are made legally easier and tax-promoting and that business start-ups are also fully supported. Social security for self-employed people will be improved. A protected “master company” seal is to be introduced as guidance for consumers. For the creation of businesses, more competition in the field of professions is intended to reduce the cost of founding and we want to review the establishment of a stability fund to provide risk capital to young innovative companies. The Internationalisation Plan is also being continued in view of the importance of the export economy for the success of the Austrian economy. In addition, there are a number of other projects, such as the more flexible granting of employment permits for professionals from the new EU countries in sectors with special needs and a socially compatible flexibility of working time. In the field of research, innovation and technology, the new Federal Government is committed to making both a qualitative and quantitative leap forward. In order to ensure growth and employment in Austria, the research rate must be increased and structural change forced: In the next few years, Austria will increasingly become an independent producer of top technology and a top-ranking research location that we can be proud of. By 2010 the research rate will be increased to 3 percent by gradually increasing the existing budgets by a total of € 800 million. This will also trigger as much private research investment as possible. At the same time, the large number of support programmes must be adjusted and more efficient. But the most important resource in the field of research and innovation – human beings – is to be particularly promoted. The creation of new posts for researchers, their mobility from and to Austria, as well as between sectors, as well as the increase in the share of women in both the public and private research sectors are particularly important. The planned technology leadership requires both excellent public research structures and entrepreneurial research. This extends from the reform of the Academy of Sciences to measures for small and medium-sized enterprises with research activities to a headquarters strategy for research and development. A modern infrastructure policy is essential for the success of the economic location and thus for the creation of new jobs. We want to achieve the optimization of the Austrian transport system through a meaningful link between the various modes of transport. Rail and waterways should become more attractive in terms of environmental compatibility as transport routes. The priority in road and rail infrastructure is to close gaps and eliminate bottlenecks in the high-level network. To implement the ÖBB Framework Plan, we will invest €6 billion in this legislative period, and another €4.5 billion in the ASFINAG construction programme. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Public transport is crucial especially in centres for the mobility of people and economic development. In rural regions, it serves public health and social justice. We will make the offer of public transport more attractive. Investment in public transport is not least an important contribution to reducing the burden of greenhouse gas, fine dust and nitrogen oxide. Austria's airline location is also to be further developed, including through quality offensives at airports as well as better networking with road and rail. Transport safety is a high priority for the new Federal Government. That is why we want to achieve improvements in control systems, speed limits, heavy traffic controls and driving training. In transit, there will be a new strategy for greater cost-effectiveness in freight transport. The truck toll is revised, differentiated and increased. Ladies and gentlemen! I come to budget and financial policy. In my view, ordered state finances are not self-evident, but they are an extremely important condition for policy to be and remain operational. If major initiatives are to be put in place for our country or if a weak economic economy needs to be countered, then we need the corresponding resources in the government budget. That is why I stand for a stable budget and for responsible and economical handling of taxpayers' money! The Federal Government is therefore committed to a sound and sustainable budgetary and financial policy that balances over a cycle of economics. This goal requires discipline. The scope for tax relief is to be developed and, in the light of the background, it is necessary to ensure that important future investments for growth and employment, the location of Austria, social security or other important public tasks are also made. The Federal Government pays attention to the common budgetary responsibility of all local authorities within the meaning of the Austrian Stability Pact. In this legislative period, the Federal Government will implement a major tax reform with a tangible discharge of taxpayers and the economy. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The tax and tax system should be sustainable. Ecological aspects are included and a positive economic development is supported. We want to ensure the best possible climate and a functioning and fair capital market. We will work, among other things, at European level, to harmonise the relevant standards, to strengthen market and abuse supervision and to strengthen transparency rules. Ladies and gentlemen! A key task of this federal government is the further development of our overall proven system of social security and fairness. This development must never stop, the challenges, the divisions in our society and the injustices are changing too quickly. If we want to have an activated and modern social state, it must meet the current requirements, and it must be operational, that is, funded securely. Under these conditions, we can achieve greater justice, security and also greater willingness to innovation and initiative. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Pensions are the most essential prerequisites for enabling the older generation to live in dignity. We agreed that no pensioner, no pensioner, must live below the poverty line. The compensatory allowance rate – that is, our kind of minimum pension – is raised to € 726. We are therefore among the top three countries in the European Union! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We also eliminate the hardness of double fees and extend the long-term insurance scheme until the end of the legislative period, allowing men after 45 years and women after 40 years of working life to receive a pension without deductions. And we improve the billing of child rearing times for the pension calculation by also securing the credits for child care. We want to reorganise heavy work and invalidity pensions in order to achieve a higher level of social fairness. This will create more pension justice in Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Everyone and everyone should be allowed to choose the type of care that meets the respective needs – whether it be at home in the circle of the family, whether through professional care through mobile services or through the dedicated forces in the homes and senior institutions. To this end, we need an extension of the services of mobile services, the development of own forms of care for specific old age diseases and the establishment of a legal form of 24-hour care. It is equally important for us to strengthen and support the voluntary commitment, especially of caring relatives. Together we want to combat poverty, which unfortunately still exists in Austria, and we will therefore work towards a general collective agreement that guarantees a minimum income of €1 000. And with the gradual introduction of the €726-based minimum guarantee, we will implement one of Europe's most modern anti-poverty instruments, which, in particular, aims to overcome poverty not simply through payment, but primarily through the return to working life. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has one of the best medical care systems in the world. The Federal Government is committed to comprehensive medical care for all people, regardless of age and income. For us, the principles of solidarity, equal and as unimpeded as possible access to services as well as the high quality and efficiency in the provision of services apply. The focus of the health policy of the new Federal Government is on the needs of patients. We will strengthen prevention and health promotion, promote the integration of outpatient and stationary care, and develop a better coordinated planning and control model between federal government, countries and social health insurance. The aim is to create new forms of outpatient health centres, which can, in particular, improve the provision of medical care in rural areas. Existing efficiency potentials are used to finance health care and health insurance contributions are increased by a significant 0.15 percent. The cost of medication is reduced by a bundle of measures, and in order to support chronic and multiple diseases, a ceiling of 2% of income is set. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Bauer.]] Someone with an income of 1 000 € net must therefore pay a maximum of 20 € per month to prescription fee. This is a real relief for many old people in our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Quality of care is also ensured by improvements in the training of doctors as well as health, care and social professions. At the same time, we will strengthen patient rights and enhance consumer health protection. We place particular emphasis on people with disabilities through the development of the right of equal treatment and specific labour market policies, because the way through regular employment is the best way for people with disabilities to a self-determined life without dependence. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The most important key to the successful future of our country, but also the successful design of individual life is education. [[Call the SPÖ:Yes!]] Education policy is a policy of opportunity, and that is why we will increase annual expenditure on education by up to €200 million because we need to support all the children and young people of our country in the best possible way according to their talents, interests and inclinations. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] With our initiatives, we want to promote the motivation and participation of all those involved – the students, the parents and the teachers. We want to gradually reduce the number of pupils per class to 25 and thus better address the needs of the individual children and young people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We will improve the provision of pre-school education, because we know that many decisions will be taken at this age for the further education and life course and that failures can only be corrected with great effort later on. Here's one very important thing: It is not about the enforcement of any ideologies, particularly in the field of education and education. We want the best school system for our children, because their training depends on the future of our country and our society. And this utopia is feasible, we're going to implement this utopia, beyond the party boundaries, because it's about agreeing that it's the best thing for our children. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That is why we will expand all day school forms and care facilities, strengthen individual support and integration with the focus on language learning, and prepare the further development of the school for the 10- to 15-year-olds. By developing educational standards, we want to increase the quality and yield of education. And we want to reduce class repetitions through specific and performance-oriented support, because this concerns the lifetime of our children. Not least are the internationalisation of education and the further development of educational universities. The school administration is being reorganised, double-tracks are eliminated, and the autonomy of schools is further strengthened. Lifelong learning must not be just a keyword. That is why we will facilitate the repetition of educational qualifications and facilitate and promote access to continuing training, improve education and ensure the quality of supply. A federal educational passport should always be a documentation on each individual's knowledge and skills. Universities, universities and numerous research institutions already have a bearing on social life in our country today. Our university and research landscape conveys basics, open-mindedness and curiosity for new things and helps us to make ideas more concrete innovations. [[In the series of greens, a transparent is kept high with the image of an airplane and the text “Here the study fee flies! Promise – broken. SPÖ’.]] However, the future of science lies in our students. With the aim of significantly improving the study conditions so that any study can be completed without delay, we want to achieve a significant improvement in the care relationships between teachers and students and invest in modern learning environments.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4611	Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, you have shown your poster. I'm trying to clean it up again. Please, Mr. Federal Chancellor, continue!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4629	That gives me a good word: For the promotion of students, we want to further expand the study aid system and make the existing credit models both better known and expanded. To this end, students will be offered the opportunity to receive funding through non-profit commitment to the extent of 60 hours per semester. I understand the concern with those who have expected that the tuition fees will be completely abolished, but I am aware that compromises must also be made in a government, even if one has further ideas. But I would also like to take part in what I recommend to others and what I really feel is reasonable. So with his working group, our Minister of Science should have created the model by which types of non-profit work or activity one should not pay any more tuition fees in the future, then I am willing to do the same as the students. I'll be ready to give after-sales lessons once a week in a Vienna school because I think I can, and I'll learn a lot. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's ridiculous!]] That's my offer to everyone! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Do the students deserve as much as you do?]] Mr Westenthaler makes his first application, although he is not one of the socially needy. [[Further continuous calls to the BZÖ.]] This will enable more students to study without study contributions. We also want to create new offers and better conditions for the growing number of working students and to expand the services offered to students with children. Strengthening the autonomy and international competitiveness of Austrian universities is our goal. The high-school offensive will continue as an important complement to the university offer. The international networking of Austrian scientific institutions and the close link to Europe will be an even stronger focus in the future. As concrete measures, we see the start of research at the ISTA Excellence Institute as well as a successful application for the European Institute of Technology. Women's policy is particularly important to this Federal Government. [[Spontaneous welcome to the SPÖ as well as to representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is coordinated in the new ministry, but as a cross-sectional theme it is drawn up by numerous departments. The improvement of equal opportunities in the labour market, the closure of income shears between men and women, the fight against poverty and gender-specific medical approaches are examples of important issues that we need to deal with and resolve together in our ministries. The promotion of the independence of women leads to employment. Our concrete objective is to increase the female employment rate to 65 percent by 2010. We must pay particular attention to the fact that the number of good full-time jobs is increasing, which also ensures sufficient income. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Women should be supported to choose so-called atypical professions in order to have better employment opportunities. There will also be a focus here on teaching professions. In addition, the development of women-specific training opportunities and re-entry assistance. In order to improve the compatibility of work and family, we will expand childcare and make child care more flexible. In addition to the existing option to purchase €436 for a total of 36 months, there is in future the variant to purchase €18 months for €800. The limit of trust is also increased. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This increases the freedom of choice for parents and at the same time offers the opportunity to re-enter your professional life – subject to sufficient and needs-oriented childcare facilities. At the same time, we give men a better chance to devote themselves to the valuable and demanding task of child rearing. Even more support will be given to single-parents in the future: by adapting family benefits, reforming the maintenance advance, and also for free workers through weekly payments. In the protection against violence against women and in the fight against most trafficking in human beings, the Federal Government will set particular priorities. In order to promote migrants in particular, an action plan will be drawn up targeting, in particular, language acquisition and other skills offers. We want to support families with many children with an increase in family allowances from the third child. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We will include children's rights within the meaning of the UN Convention as fundamental rights in the Federal Constitution and will establish, with the countries of Austria, uniform regulations in the field of youth protection. We pay particular attention to the protection against alcohol and drug abuse and to the glorification of violence. However, we also want to improve the democratic rights of participation of young people: in the form of diverse youth participation models and in particular by reducing the electoral age to 16 years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Art and culture have a high priority in Austria, and the Federal Government is committed to an open dialogue with art and culture creators and to an open cultural climate that allows a critical discussion of both history and current development. Public funding of art and culture is a necessary investment in the future. Special importance for us is the promotion of contemporary art and culture, but also the social protection of artists. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] In addition to promoting cultural participation and a wide range of other projects, the Federal Government will focus on strengthening the media and film location in Austria. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Morak.]] We want to allow an entry-free day per month in the federal museums so that all these important facilities can also be visited. We want to develop a new concept for a "house of history" by the middle of the year and support Linz as the "European Capital of Culture 2009". [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The aim of the Federal Government's media policy is to ensure a pluralistic, diverse media landscape with high-quality offers. To this end, we will create an independent and comprehensive media and telecommunications authority. As a public-law foundation, the ORF plays a central role in cultural identity and in social integration. It must be positioned as a national and international company with a clear mandate and transparent forms of financing and must also be competitive and secure at European level. The promotion of media will be evaluated and expanded, with the aim in particular of reviewing the promotion of commercial and non-commercial electronic providers. By the end of 2009, the full supply of broadband access to the population is expected to be completed and Austria has risen to one of the leading nations in information and communication technology. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The rural area is particularly at the heart of this Federal Government. This commitment requires essential political steps. From 2007 to 2013, Austria has available EU funds of €3.9 billion, co-financed nationally by the doubling. The Green Pact will be implemented as planned and will focus on three pillars: the mining programme, a comprehensive environmental programme and the investment offensive to strengthen Austrian farmers in their competitiveness. The Austrian path of ecological agriculture is unique across Europe. The Austrian food enjoys excellent reputation. That is why we will continue to fight for the freedom of genetic engineering of our agriculture. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In the environmental field, we place a clear focus on our committed fight against climate change: We will make our contribution to this internationally and nationally. After 2012, our goal is to include all industrialised countries and developing countries in an international agreement. We ourselves will do everything we can to reach the Kyoto target by 2012. Another clear confession: Nuclear energy is not a sustainable form of energy supply and therefore no alternative for us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This should also apply to our neighbours, which is why we will continue to act within the framework of our friendly relations for a zero-variation at the Temelín nuclear power plant. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We need to show more alternative and renewable forms of energy supply. During this legislative period, we are particularly concerned with increasing the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption to at least 25 percent and the share of renewable electricity generation to 80 percent. We want to convert at least 100 000 households to renewable energy sources and increase the use of alternative fuels in the transport sector to 10%. Biomass use should be doubled. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hornek.]] We are focusing on state-of-the-art technology and research in addressing environmental problems. To this end, we have ambitious objectives, such as doubling the share of environmental technology in gross domestic product. Finally, protection against natural hazards for Austria is an important topic: Here we must continue our offensive course in the intelligent wildlife and avalanche cultivation and in protective water construction. Another cross-sectional matter in society and politics is sport. It plays an essential role in the economy, tourism, health, education, integration and many other areas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] This recognises the new Federal Government and therefore sets itself a number of goals, such as increasing sports activity in the population, ensuring the financing of non-profit sports, forcing kindergarten and school sports and stimulating more broadband and club sports. In top sports we want to optimize the funding systems, ensure the important role of the German army and executive in this field as well as support and benefit from major events such as the football Em 2008 or Olympia Salzburg 2014. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Security as I understand it, ladies and gentlemen, has many dimensions. I only mention the social dimension, the security and the protection against life risks, as the modern social state offers it and thus contributes significantly to social cohesion. This does not in any way detract from the importance of internal security as the essential task of our state. Austria is one of the safest countries in the world. It is one of the most important challenges to protect the freedom and security of its citizens in the future. The Austrians have a claim to it. I believe that our executives must have the best possible equipment for their work at their disposal. The training of our police officers, based on the steps taken so far, will also continue to be professionalized. In the field of security, international cooperation is of particular importance. In order to combat cross-border crime effectively in the future, the Federal Government will further develop and strengthen cooperation with our neighbouring countries. An essential and decisive issue in the coming years will be the area of "immigration and integration". Immigration is a global challenge. Immigration to Austria must be tailored to the needs and possibilities of our country and our labour market, not least in the interest of immigrants. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Integration is facing a new move. Integration is a social task and needs to be done in accordance with the principle that decent existence and social peace are guaranteed in our country. A corresponding income, ordinary housing conditions, an existing health insurance are as essential as basic knowledge of the German language. Integration must therefore take place at all levels: in kindergartens, schools and other educational institutions, through special promotion of integration into local life and environment. The essential principle must be that immigration is always linked to integration work. This is the overall responsibility of the Federal Government and of all local authorities. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The central task for us remains the fight against illegal migration and tow crime. There is a clear separation between asylum and immigration. In the area of asylum: rapid and fair protection for those who are persecuted; the duration of the asylum procedures will be further shortened and we will install an asylum court to further optimize the procedures. It is my particular concern, ladies and gentlemen, to strengthen human rights, democracy and tolerance in our country, but also internationally. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Against this background, the special commitment to successful integration is to be seen, but this motive is also based on the projects that we will undertake in the years to come in the field of justice, state and reform policy. Justice reform, state and administrative reform, and, last but not least, our international commitment to extending personal rights, to greater justice and to better living together people. Sufficient resources for justice are the basis for the rule of law and human rights. All people have simple and equal access to the right. In view of the rapid social change, the reform of law and justice must be constantly progressed. In this way, we will carry out a fundamental renewal of family law, which takes account of a changed social reality, in close connection with reforms in the field of social law. The aim is to take into account the living social cohesion and solidarity of people, whether on the basis of marriage, community or patchwork relationships, in the legal order. This reform will also address the question of the non-discrimination-free legal design of same-sex communities. Furthermore, maintenance rights should be improved and maintenance advance rights made more efficient. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Further developments will take place in wide areas of consumer protection, taking into account European legislation. In particular, the so-called digital rights of consumers should be improved. In the area of criminal law, the fight against so-called criminal tourism is a priority objective. Special importance is attached to increased cooperation with judicial and police authorities of the countries of origin of foreign offenders and to the extension of the takeover by the home country. The improvement of measures against the diverse manifestations of violence in the social area must continue. In doing so, violence against women, children and old people will have to be given special attention. And we want to ensure an effective and specialised youth jurisdiction. In criminal proceedings, there should be an improved differentiation according to the danger and personality of the perpetrators. This also requires improved training and training in judicial institutions. Important improvements have been made in the area of victim rights and financial assistance, but still a lot remains to be done. A coordination body for victim assistance should be set up. Ladies and gentlemen! Living is a basic need, such as work, education and health, and must therefore be sustainable and high-quality. This is achieved by a number of measures, such as with the support of a high-performance non-profit housing, the maintenance of housing, the abolition of contract fees for housing and rental contracts and the reduction of commissions for housing contracts. Further reform of the judicial organisation must not be at the expense of easy and rapid access by people living in rural areas to the institutions of law. The Federal Government has also set itself the ambitious goal of a state and administrative reform. It concerns both the structures of the State, such as a modern distribution of responsibilities between the Federal Government and the Länder, and measures for greater proximity to citizens. The aim of the State reform is to improve the individual's living situation, access to justice, but also his rights as such. Building on the results of the Austrian Convention, the discussions will be completed by the end of this year. The fundamental rights currently distributed in different legal sources are to be merged into a single catalogue and adapted to the new challenges. This relates in particular to fundamental social rights. These fundamental social rights must also be enforceable. Overall, our legal protection system must increase its efficiency and proximity to citizens. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The management will become more efficient, customer-oriented and legal. E-Government will be strengthened. And in the next legislative period, there will not only be the reduction of the electoral age to 16 years, but also domestic participation will be increased by the introduction of the letter election. We expect this to increase our participation in the next elections. The legislative period will be extended to five years from the next election in order to gain more time for the actual political design between government and the next election campaign. We also want to ensure the constitutional rights of the ethnic groups. There is no doubt that it is necessary to implement the local knowledge of the Constitutional Court. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This is to be done in as broad a consensus as possible with the groups and to be safeguarded constitutionally. As far as the division of tasks between the Federal Government and the countries is concerned, the government and administrative reform is to create a clear approach. The position of the municipalities is also to be strengthened. Now for external security: No military yet as highly equipped can serve the security of Austria to the same extent as the political integration process in Europe. Austria must also play a very active role in Brussels. On the basis of ever-increasing neutrality, Austria will continue to be a solidarity partner and will continue to participate intensively in the development of European security and defence policy. Austria has an excellent tradition in political and civil crisis management, but also in stabilizing international crisis fires with military resources. These peace missions, whether in the context of the European Union or of the United Nations, will continue. Today, in addition to its tasks of protecting sovereignty and neutrality, the Austrian Federal Army must support international efforts to ensure peace and stability, especially for the people of the country, but also abroad in the event of disasters. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] For all these tasks, the Federal Army must be equipped and equipped accordingly. This also applies to airspace monitoring. The Federal Government acknowledges the recommendations of the Federal Hero-Reform Commission. General military service is maintained and the military service is reduced to six months by law. Improvements in working conditions and training of soldiers are also necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian Federal Government is committed to a strong, social and modern Europe. The sense and quality of the European integration process will only be comprehensible to Austrians if they can experience an actual improvement in their living conditions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] For this reason, we will be strongly committed to increasing economic growth, combating unemployment, developing social standards, as well as activities for education, research and development at European level. We need more European cooperation in many other areas. A common European asylum law is very important in order to achieve a fairer distribution of asylum applications across all EU countries, as well as enhanced cooperation on energy issues in order to achieve greater security of supply and sustainability. The Federal Government will ensure that the enlargement process takes full account of the EU's capacity to accept it carefully and prudently. European integration without the countries of the Western Balkans would probably be incomplete. However, it is also important to develop other, tailored cooperations beyond accession with neighbours of the European Union. The Federal Government considers the EU Constitutional Treaty approved by the National Council to be an important basis for the capacity of a much enlarged Union to act. We will play an active part in the discussions on this, in order to make the EU closer to citizens. Special commitment deserves cooperation with Austria's immediate neighbours. Here the Federal Government will also perform its traditional protection function for the Austrian People's Group in South Tyrol. Austria's role in the centre Europe should be substantially strengthened. Especially within the framework of the European Union, the Federal Government will also be committed to a peace solution in the Middle East. This conflict is the root of the instability of the region as a whole and contributes significantly to the global threat of terrorism. Relations with all those world regions that have received valuable impetus during Austria's EU Presidency are naturally maintained, not least, we want to contribute to a sustainable deepening of transatlantic relations. The further development of relations with the Russian Federation and the emerging nations of southern and eastern Asia will be a special concern for us. Austria will continue to be actively involved in the work of international organisations, particularly the United Nations, but the United Nations is the centre of competence for the international promotion of peace, security and justice. Our commitment will focus on the areas of peacekeeping, protection of human rights, disarmament, protection of the environment, equality of women and the fight against terrorism. Austria will run for a non-permanent seat in the Security Council for the period 2009/2010. For development cooperation, we want to implement the decision of the EU Council, according to which 0.51 percent of the gross domestic product will be used for this area by 2010. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The Federal Government will continue to actively pursue the protection and support of Austrian citizens and their concerns abroad. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to stress that I am very happy to keep this declaration of government here in Parliament. [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] - You've seen that, I know. I have worked as a parliamentarian for nearly a year and a half and a half, and I am so happy to do so because I consider Parliament to be the essential achievement of democracy. Of course, I share this respect with my colleagues in the new Federal Government. Everyone and everyone here in the House has not only the task, but also the will and the conviction to work for the good of people in our country. That is why this Federal Government will maintain close exchange with Parliament, and it will also, in particular, hold an intensive dialogue with the opposition parties and their representatives. Not least, we support the fact that Parliament, as far as possible in the consensus of all parties, is improving minority and control rights. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We will also always be working with the countries and communities, with the social partners, with other stakeholders, with NGOs and committed civil society initiatives, in order to develop the best possible solutions for people in our country. Above all, however, I want and want to be in constant contact with the Austrians, who place great trust and expectations in this Federal Government. Political and partyism is best fought with good work in the sense and on behalf of the citizens! This also means discussing with all those who do not agree with the government and its policies. We live in democracy, and everyone and everyone has the natural right to criticise. As long as it is non-violent and about the confrontation of opinions and arguments, it is not just a legitimate element of a living democracy. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This federal government is the most recent Austrian government of all time – despite some gray hair that can be seen here in the round; I am probably not an exception – and it is the one with the highest proportion of women on the government bank. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I look forward to working with my colleagues. We will do everything for this country, our home country, so that in four years it will be even better, even more solid, even more likely and more future-rich than it is today. We won't let that happen. – This is my promise to Austria! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A promise again!]] So let us go to work together – for our Republic, for the Austrians!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4970	I would like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic for his statement. We are going into the debate on the Government Declaration. The rules on speaking time are known. The first to speak is Mr. Klubobmann, Dr. Van der Bellen. His speaking time is 20 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4998	Well, Mr Bundeskanzler – no doubt a big day for you personally, but somehow I remain uninspired by this speech. And if I really appreciate the mood in the hall, it was not much different for all the other political groups – I emphasize: all the other groups – except for the compulsory applause that Mr Klubobmann Cap has just begun. [[Abg. Strache: Privately trained for it!]] But on the right side, at the ÖVP, the yawning was hardly overlooked. [[Call the ÖVP:You also slept, admit it!]] I recall at least in part that casting builders of course speak better when they speak freely. But a declaration of government seems to have to be read by the leaf, otherwise you could say something that doesn't please the coalition partner – and already is the first scratch! But – second and more important –: Federal Chancellor Gusenbauer gave us a summary of the government programme, and this government programme is not inspiring, it is a program of disappointed hopes – not only the opposition, ladies and gentlemen, but also across the political groups and, of course, various groups in the population. The old Federal Government, I suppose, was not selected without reason, and that was clear. But now we have a continuation of similar policies, with similar means, half-hearted, with strange priorities, provided that priorities are at all recognizable. The “old” SPÖ, the SPÖ before the 1st century. October 2006, would have said: Pfui, this is a neoliberal financial policy by Karl-Heinz Grasser, we cannot support it at all! But now, as far as the basic principles are concerned, they are doing something quite similar; I am still going to come back to it. Ladies and gentlemen! People have been disappointed in their hopes, and they feel that different things are in the process of breaking – the word globalisation – that competition is growing in all markets, now purely economic. The question is how to react. In education policy, with better schools, with a more dedicated technology and innovation policy, in universities and so on – something happens already, but: Where's the big vision? Where are the budgetary priorities that would require a strong answer to these questions? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the change in the labour market, the dwindling opportunities for people with no one or one at all – how am I supposed to say? – rudimentary training – the situation today is quite different from ten, 20 years ago, let alone 30 years ago – requires a new construction, a reconstruction of the social network in Austria, not only in Austria, throughout the European Union. And where is the great litter of your side – instead of marginal adaptation to the edges? It's not all bad, but where's the big throw that a big coalition could do? – People are right to miss that. This concerns not only classical social policy, but also active labour market policy and, in particular, tax and tax policy in Austria. And last, but not least: „Der Spiegel“, “Die Zeit“, the “Financial Times”, the “Economist” – all international media speak of climate change, climate change and climate change again and of what can still be done to at least inhibit climate warming if not stopped. The whole world is discussing this. You, too, have mentioned some goal in your government program, but not a measure to get there. I'll come back to that. These would have been things that have to deal with a great coalition, which is dedicated to major problems that create great litters, a coalition with perhaps something unpopular at the beginning of its reign, if you already want to copy bowls. But nothing like it! There is managed a little ahead, administered there, as you allow routine to operate instead of serious and determined action while at the same time explaining to the people in Austria why something is necessary. – Something that the old bowl government has seriously neglected: from pension reform to other things. Mr. Cot stupid, shaking You don't have your head! If it were different, for example, you would have been better able to bring people closer to the “greatest tax reform of all time, ” as you have said. Obviously, no human has responded to this supposedly largest tax reform programme. The Gusenbauer I government – whether there will ever be “II”, we will see – of course has a credibility problem, and we all know that, because election promises have not been made. But essentially, I consider this first of all a problem of SPÖ – and not all of the House’s Members. Finally, the Green Members have not promised what the SPÖ has not kept. This must be the SPÖ with itself. Mr Bundeskanzler, but I ask you: Not to spend the first few days telling Members of this House simple untruths about the media. I would have thought you'd decided to rule at least in the style of Austria a little different. Do not start by trying to present to the honourable Member an X for a U, and simply want to put false things on the eye! I refer to your comments on tuition fees. Dr. Gusenbauer! In an interview, published on Saturday, 13. January, you are asked by the “Standard”: “The social service is from the table? They also talked about work in a hospice.” – Answer Gusenbauer: “It has never been about social service. This is an invented claim.” Federal Chancellor! I'm neither sordid nor completely deaf. I followed the press release by you and Dr. Schüssel on Monday, I think last week, and, of course, there was express talk of services in the hospice service. And if you consider this to be an ‘invented claim’ and do not want to examine it, then the government programme must also be invented, in the context of the study fees measures on page 97: ‘This will be particularly done in the context of education and activities in the context of new social challenges (hospice movement, etc.) The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 3(2) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. If this is free to be invented, I wonder what the rest of the government programme is, whether it has been invented as freely as it is. On the occasion, I shall put forward a motion for a resolution. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You trust something!]] [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] Parts of the SPÖ do not tire of requiring the abolition of tuition fees. A certain Erich Haider in Upper Austria and the wife of Schaunig, I think, in Carinthia are getting strong, apart from Voves, trade unionists and so on. [[Abg. Broukal: Unfortunately, Mr. Anschober was not for this!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] Mr Cap, but Mr Broukal was in favour of abolishing the tuition fees. That is why I put forward a motion for a resolution: “Broukal” – I accepted your request, Mr Broukal; so “Broukal” crossed through – and “Van der Bellen, Grünewald” – and not introduced it in the course of the debate on the urgent question “Chaos in Education Policy” – that was then in September – but of course today on the federal government’s declaration. I have left the whole text unchanged, Mr Broukal, with the exception of an angry style error, I would say once: [[Abg. Broukal: Thank you!]] You write: “Three quarters of the working students must already work...” So: [[Cheerfulness with the Greens and the ÖVP.]] I would have thought that three-quarters of the working students were already working. I have allowed myself to remove “employed people, ” and then it is: “Three quarters of students already have to work...” – Thank you very much, Mr Broukal, for this request. [[Abg. Broukal: Professor, thank you!]] The motion for a resolution reads as follows: “The Federal Minister for Education, Science and Culture is invited to abolish the tuition fees.” [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As the irony wants, the competent Federal Minister is today our new Minister of Education, Dr. Schmied, because the Federal Ministry Act has not yet been amended, and Mr. Hahn is a Minister without a portfolio, so that even this point of the Broukal application is perfectly correct. I now ask you, Mr Broukal, to accept the motion for a resolution by Mr Broukal, Mr Van der Bellen, Mr Green Forest, although I have put you through for the time being. I also call on the other Members, especially from Upper Austria, to agree to the request. If you don't, we know what we have to think of Erich Haider's initiatives. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Well, nothing! As the Upper Austrian, we have known this for a long time!]] The same applies to the Styrian and Carinthian SPÖ delegates. We'll see. Fun side by side, gentlemen – in case: [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The study fee is not fun!]] My Lord. What you have to say to the universities is already sad. In the speech of German chancellor Gusenbauer, this was a “absorb. ” In the government programme it is a little more, it contains a number of probably sensible measures. Some of them would cost money: the improvement of care, the improvement of the relationship between professors and students will cost money, the further internationalization of universities will cost money, the structural measures, the re-purchasing of equipment will cost money. – None of this can be found in the government programme. Within the framework of the research and development programme, which is a little better, I admit, a little more resources will flow to universities. But, ladies and gentlemen, just seen from the orders and to show how little you see the signs of time: The EU Commission – is this also a shabby neoliberal invention, Mr Cap? – the EU Commission believes that the countries of the European Union should agree on 2% of GDP for universities. The U.S. spends significantly more on scientific research. Where are we in Austria? – About 1 percent of GDP! Now for those who can't convert fast enough: We are talking about a missing amount for universities and colleges of about €3 billion! Certainly not feasible from today to tomorrow – the EU Commission speaks of 2015. It is therefore to be done within eight years and feasible, but only if you start with it today. And what are you doing? – They abandon the students, they abandon the teachers, they abandon the researchers at the universities. They move out year after year. At least read the demand programme of the rectors' conference, and you'll find out what's not in the government's programme, not to mention other recommendations. A little more positive is the case with research and development. - You see, I'm trying to be fair. – Mr President, the 3 per cent F&E quota of 2010, which we all subscribe to here in the house, I think, all, only: How are you going to get there? The measures you have planned are not enough! In the final expansion 2010 it will be additional 400 million you have planned, but a bit of recalculation shows you 2,4 or a little more percent today – count on it! –, 3 percent in 2010 are around 9 billion. Calculate it. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: You are not a good prophet!]] If only one third of the addition to the league – Mr. Col. stupidly, you can expect it, do it on occasion; a envelope enough, an empty one, also a full one – is missing a billion in addition for the federal government alone in 2010. Where's that? You didn't even budget half! I am only saying this because, here, the main prospects for the future of Austria are not fast enough, not energetic enough to be addressed by this government. That's the problem. I am not simply a lobbyist of universities, but I am convinced, and all of us are as if we were all convinced that the research field, the scientific training the basis, is a necessary basis for the labour market of the future and, in general, for the development of a personality, beyond the educational requirements for the development of the labour market alone. But then you also have to start with, my Ladies and gentlemen, and not for years, manage years ahead and continue a little bit of a budget number. That won't be enough! The same applies to climate protection. You have written down some good objectives in your programme in energy policy, but hardly any measures. How to become Do you achieve these objectives in increasing the share of renewable energy? Or in the addition of biofuels to fossil fuels? How will you be able to ensure smooth mobility in transport, more than before, if we all know that there are the highest growth rates of greenhouse gas emissions in Austria in transport? You want to reach the famous Kyoto target also in Austria – but how? You know very well that we are currently, in 2007, miles away from achieving the objectives that the whole European Union, including Austria, has undertaken to achieve 2010 to 2012. We will not achieve these objectives if you do not take action! And you overlook – I am used to it by the Social Democrats, but I am still surprised by the ÖVP – that you overlook the labour market opportunities in this field of new energy policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The SPÖ was always deaf on this ear. It has never understood that modern energy policy is also modern environmental policy. At the ÖVP there were enough people who understood this. In the case of one of your best, one of the most distinguished Commissioners of the EU, who has ever – I say quite openly – you would only have to give some kind of follow-up time, Franz Fischler – I mean, of course: take. Mr. Federal Chancellor Gusenbauer, instead of going to school and doing your time there: I expect a German chancellor to expect something else from me. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But you can take a supplementary hour, that is to say, with Franz Fischler, with regard to what modern eco-social energy policy is. I would be pleased if this government would certainly bring some productivity! On tax and tax policy: SPÖ and ÖVP do not bring together more in a modern tax and tax policy than what is contained in the government programme? On the previous page, a paragraph containing no specific provisions? – Mr Bartenstein, you have recently given good interviews on the priorities of shifting the social tax burden, from lower and lower incomes to medium and top incomes. You have expressly spoken of reducing the additional wage costs in the lower wage range, on the one hand, I assume to improve the situation of those concerned, their net income, on the other hand, from the employer, in order to employ these people – how should I say? – make it more attractive. There's nothing in the government programme. The government programme does not support the tax and tax structure you are considering in 2010. It is one of the usual passages, and those happen dozens of times, in many dozens of cases where you will examine, will use about 40 working groups. Only: You didn't agree on anything. That'll give you a nice touch! The opposition will certainly not fail over the next two or three years, as long as this coalition holds, given the lack of agreement on important and key issues. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Four!]] Obviously you need another drive behind it. I don't know who to turn to: To the Social Democrats who had various good things in the election program – now Swamm over it! – or to the EIA, which at least in economic policy had a few things in the box in the past? Where are the big programmes now? What is the position of Minister Bartenstein in an interview as a programme that is not part of the government programme? What have you done these last 100 days? - Sometimes you wonder. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Integration and immigration, this is also a story. – Does it always have to be, and every time, that the chapter of integration is a sub-chapter of internal security, suggesting from home that the whole question of people with non-Austrian passport is somehow related to the question of crime in Austria? Is that what you're serious about? Of course, there are criminal foreigners, there are also criminals with Austrian passport – enough, or too many if you want. But does that always have to be summarized there? – That says a lot about how you address this question. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] There are also positive measures in this area as in the school sector, which you have also tailor-made, in kindergartens and elsewhere. But: Where will the money be for it? – It costs a little bit! Integration is a two-sided matter, my colleagues from the ÖVP and SPÖ. This requires something from the immigrants and requires something from us. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] – And this money, these budgetary priorities are completely lacking in your programme. Madam President, I assume that was my final point. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e5292	The motion for a resolution, drawn up by Mr Van der Bellen, has been properly tabled, duly supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e5340	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Cap. Also 20 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e5361	Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen, thank God I had a coffee before you spoke. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] So, an inspiration fireworks wasn't that, a little bit of alternatives I'd have imagined. Of course, the mere criticism is too little in the long run. [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Well, you're gonna have a little laugh in your neck, Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler. The three opposition parties would have had the possibility that it would be different – you have to say that already. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] It's right: They wanted to have pragmatized government seats for the oranges – once inside, always inside. That's okay, I understand this approach. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What now?]] But otherwise, I remember with interest the statement of, for example, colleague Van der Bellen in the "NEWS" of 2. November, where he says: There's got to be a big coalition. That's the result of the election. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: But not any one!]] But that's it! You're a kind of birth-helper of the great coalition. That is what we want to see. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Now I'm guilty of the debacle?- Oh, my God!]] Your wish has been fulfilled: We're here! Your wish has been fulfilled! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In a longer look, I even found a quote of my colleague, Mr. Strache, who spoke for me, which meant: It is now the only two-coalition that is possible, and any other coalition I don't think is viable. – Thank you for this nice statement! That is, it is the only coalition that is viable. You can only wish for such an opposition. I'd say, Just continue on this path! There have also been internal discussions with the Greens. Mr Voggenhuber said: It would simply be depressing if it had been the greatest influence of the Greens in politics – he meant, the last 20 years – that they have brought about the great coalition. I have to ask myself where my party's will to design remains. - Quote. I quote that because I just expected Klubobmann Van der Bellen to say that this will of design is expressed in his speech: Okay, that's in the government agreement now, but I have a different idea. – I didn't actually hear that, so I can't do much with this kind of criticism. I would like to say something about the language of this government agreement. I have been able to track how this language develops. There is much to be found in the design space of the individual resorts. There are objectives, some of which will be negotiated in the budget negotiations – I do not think anything bad about working groups, which serves to clarify and make concrete – and then to implement. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But not 40!]] I think it's positive! I think this is positive because the will is expressed here, it is really the attempt to do the best for Austria to think twice and three times before, not as it was in the previous government a few times, that we have always found ourselves at the Constitutional Court and that laws have been repealed, repealed and repealed. – You should not forget that completely. That was the case before. I would like to say something about the ability of a respective government to act. Of course, the ability to act is also determined by the financial possibilities. Professor Van der Bellen! They have made a very hard analysis of the economic part. I think it is right that the tax reform is intended to encourage and support small and medium-sized enterprises, and that it should be made even if it is possible to do so. But of course, I cannot spare those who were responsible for what had happened before, namely, in what situation the Austrian state finances were left behind. [[Call ÖVP and BZÖ:Very good!]] That's important. Yes, yes! In what situation they have been left behind, namely in the last seven years, when Karl-Heinz Grasser was practically a self-proclaimed sparing raw material with the zweispitz by internal policy and always told us what a great saving policy that government is. That's where I have to say: When I look at the budget deficit, when I look at the debts of the ÖBB, the ASFINAG, when I look at the situation of the family burden balance – all this has to be seen! We do not react so nervously now, then, when the Cassascend – not so nervously! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer]] – has taken place – you have to know on what basis you make a government program – see, there has not been much money left. A lot of money has just been lost on the way to the cash register, and this of course has the possibilities to determine and limit the speed of action. This has to be said in all clarity so that the audiences can see how the starting situation was. For example, the maximum number of students is 25: Why is that a reference value? – Well, we all would have liked this to happen immediately and immediately! Why do you have to aim at this gradually? – It is the same with other examples in the government programme: We are committed to making a responsible budgetary policy here – that is not a question – but we can only spend what is there. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] And for what is there and what is not there, bear the responsibility – now the applause is right. [[towards ÖVP]] That's what you're responsible for. That was clearly stated here once. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call: It's starting very well]] - I think so. I also think that the job rotation of the new kind is very positive: Klubobmann becomes Federal Chancellor, Federal Chancellor becomes Klubobmann. That's all right. That, I think, is once a stir in here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Klubobmann becomes Federal Chancellor, Federal Chancellor becomes Klubobmann. I find this invigorating! We will also have a factor for recovery in our presidential conferences. [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: Now it becomes dangerous!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Chancellor Josef Cap!]] But now on the individual points, on the study fees from now on. I find the following remarkable: I have read through today's interviews of the new University Minister. These are philosophically inspired, he is committed to promoting and extending scholarships. But: When do you actually have your first university event, Mr. Minister? – You will make an information event there, you will want to introduce yourself there. Which university will you choose? What's going to be You're going to tell the students there? What you said in your interviews, or will it be a little more? Will you say something to the work students there, for example? Should there be a change? – That would be very important, they are already working anyway. Will you say something to the alone mothers? Will they have to continue paying tuition fees or not? You should not hide behind the hedge, because the inventors of the study fees, that was the ÖVP! You're ÖVP University Minister! You have to do this information event sometime now. I guess you'll come back pretty pale from this event, maybe you'll call me and say, Now we'll talk. . I think the last word on the tuition fees has not yet been spoken, I promise you this, Minister of the University. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'd find that right, too. I don't make a murderer's pit out of my heart: I think you should really think about it again. At least one should consider the changes that affect the single mothers, one should consider something about the student work, the credit model, the extension and the promotion of scholarships. There are so many ways to figure this out, that at the end there is probably nothing left. But I'll tell you something. Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen has previously asked what the big visions are. – I think that once in principle there is a change, a change of climate, more liberalism, more openness, just because there is a new state of government here. This is also expressed in many chapters in this government programme, I believe, very clearly. It has not even been formed by the government, there has already been a change in what has affected the compensatory allowance rate. [[Abg. Oillinger: We didn't need the government to do this!]] The fight against poverty is an important concern. We do not care whether there is poverty in one of the richest countries, such as Austria, or whether a government is prepared to combat this poverty. This is a concern to all those who advocate a solidarity society, a solidarity society. I have never found it all right how some of you have produced and the need-oriented minimum assurance has slandered as a reference for lazy people. That was a conscious error. A conscious error! It was only a matter of not falling below the poverty line. This is something that has a broad consensus here in Austria, from the churches, from all Christian inspiration. Mr. Ewald Stadler, you are so Christianly inspired. You'll have to nod right there. And there are many others who think that this is a real step, that a rich society should also be solidarity and that this is very important for the entire social climate. I know there are still some areas where you should not miss the train of time. That was the discussion that we had about the registered partnership, the question of the general school – loud things, for which probably another generation in the ÖVP needs to regrowth in order for this change to occur in the ÖVP in order to resolve these hardships. Maybe there's that. I hope so. I believe that it is right to think more about these points here and not say, well, that is currently the mood or decision of the ÖVP and that is unchangeable. I am also trying to present my own positions within the framework of the new government consensus and to say that we are not going to let go of it, because such a legislative period is still taking place, such a legislative period has this government agreement as a basis, but it is quite possible to develop additional ideas as well. You're going to do this as a government partner just as we're gonna do. Even if the opposition parties have good ideas, which is really not to be excluded, then we will try to take that up. That is also what is particularly positive in this government programme: the new approach to Parliament, the handling of the opposition parties, the strengthening of control and minority rights. Well, that was not so obvious – and I say that quite self-critically – in the past seven years or before. I think that it is all right to have this included in the Government Convention. This is also important for the citizens, because some have elected SPÖs, some ÖVPs have been elected, but some have also elected the three opposition parties. And these citizens should see that this is to be taken seriously – both the work of the investigation committees and the performance of the audit mandate and the way in which one deals with one another: in good time the templates are given the information, try to involve and maintain a new style here. We shall sit here in Parliament on this matter. We will see that for the spectators the question hours become more exciting that this criticism of question answers finds a form that is not only exciting, but where, so to speak, the members of the government are giving more answers than before. Or: that citizens should see how the committees work in committee work. Public committee work, i.e. transparent Parliament, i.e. more democracy. I also believe that as far as coalition work itself is concerned, this is a new kind of coalition that does not fall into the old pride of the great coalition before 1999 with all the things that we also criticise or about which we have found in retrospect that it has gone wrong. “Coalition new” here means that there is no camera party, friendly economy, packaging, but transparency, the concern for Austria, professional distance, but at the same time basic consensus. And you're supposed to try that. I think this is necessary in dealing with us, even with the opposition parties, that you don't say from home, everything they say is opposition rhetoric, I don't even listen to it. – This is wrong, but one must try to bring in this democratic quality, and I hope that is possible. In the case of reports from individual resorts: The opposition should have the possibility – not all reports, otherwise we will not be done here – that there are a number of reports where one says they are important, which we want to discuss here, for which there should be the public of plenary. Everything in the interests of citizens, everything in the interest of the fact that there is a real competition for ideas here! I was very unhappy about how sometimes these coalition negotiations were reported. I see coalition negotiations as a democratic process where two parties are trying, while respecting the interests of their electorate, to get as much into a government agreement as possible and to link it with the guarantee that this will eventually also be implemented. I'm very unhappy about it when it's always going to be a poker game or a fight or whatever that may be. That's Austria! That's not a tableau. This is about Austria and concerns that this country will become even more sustainable and that the good ideas will ultimately also be received and implemented. I am still unhappy that the movement on the part of the manufacturer as far as the Eurofighters are concerned is not yet sufficient. I believe that this would be important in the interests of Austria. It is unfortunate that such a contract has been designed, which apparently allows so little room for action. I think there's a lot of tax money in there – and that's a shame. This continues to be a tax waste, which I consider to be a waste of money. You have seen for yourself – the previous speaker has mentioned this, the speaker will probably do the same – if you go through the government programme capitalily and say, but perhaps we could have mobilised even more in finance. Forget about it. You never know what the reason for that is! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The missing backbone for us!]] The one reason is how the state finances were left behind with all the outsourced areas, the other the purchases that I think are superfluous. But yet, I think, it is more than tangible, and it has a clear social-democratic manuscript, especially in comparison to what happened seven years ago in the government agreement. – Klubobmann Westenthaler, you can't judge this, because you've only ruled the lie and you haven't really seen what's happening, but we want to see that at eye-to-eye that really two partners are working in this government. There the social area is absolutely recognizable, including the changes in pensions, where we have drawn the poison teeth. [[Abg. Oils: Where?]] The social sector is absolutely visible in terms of combating poverty! The women's part is absolutely herable: Finally, we have a women's ministry again! – These are not only symbolic progress, they are also positive content. The flexibility of the child's money is absolutely tangible and has also been promised weedland. The entire health sector must be mentioned. If everyone, including the countries, is involved, then there may be positive changes, which is important because we have always said that we do not want two-class medicine. But, of course, we have to ensure that the health system can be financed in the future. In the field of education – Mr. Strache will, I assume, go into what will then –: Improvements are planned with regard to German education in terms of integration opportunities. It is looked at in time for German lessons for those who do not have German as their mother tongue. We have addressed the whole field of pre-schooling, and we have finally addressed this linguistic training – in addition to the many, many points mentioned earlier in the Government Declaration. I would just like to highlight this and say that this is a very essential aspect. I also think that these points are very, very positive in terms of foreign policy and the European area: Austria's voice in the European context to give weight again. [[Call the ÖVP:Go on! Keep going!]] I believe that much of what has been developed here as a model can really be presented there. Another point is state and administrative reform: making this state closer to being able to organise the administration more cost-effectively. Indeed, with all appreciation of the work of the officials, but there must also be much in this direction. - And that's how you could continue. Economic and employment policy again focuses on: Economy, employment, fight against unemployment – clear social-democratic manuscript. If you look at all that exactly, which unfortunately has been overlaid in public reporting in the last few days, I think these are points that are extremely positive. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] I have to say to my green speaker that the part of my heart, which is totally green, is higher when I look at this part of energy, the environment and agriculture. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Where is it?]] This is like a green programme of principles: zero variant temelín; Anti-atomic combat: Austria remains with the anti-atomic energy policy, although at European level it is for security, but not for the expansion of nuclear energy; it is a Kyoto target. It is like a green programme of principles! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] In fact, need You're no longer in the government, it's all you're asking for in this government agreement. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Rarely so laughing!]] I do not know what the following speakers would like to say at all. Every speech of content is taken away from what is inside. Mr. Strache is also going to be hard on himself. It is almost everything inside, from German lessons to internal security to integration. [[Abg. Strache: I didn't find it, but I've been looking for a long time!]] – Let’s say it’s already in the government program. Just turn her off! In conclusion: It is a good government agreement, and on this basis it is now to be worked. – Mr Bundeskanzler, all right!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e5658	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Strache. Same time of speech: 20 minutes. – Mr Klubobmann, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e5681	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Appreciate members of the government! You really must congratulate the Federal Chancellor: He's the first ÖVP Federal Chancellor with a red party book! You've really succeeded in something historic, Dr. Gusenbauer. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[The speaker holds a panel on which, among other things, can be read: ÖVP membership on a lifetime for Alfred Gusenbauer.]] They deserved the honorary membership of the ÖVP. I'm allowed to hand it over to you. - Here you go. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer: Thank you!]] They have really achieved something for which it would not have been necessary for three months in the negotiations. You would have this result one day after the 1st. In October the SPÖ was sold out. It is the continuation of a federal government of Black-Orange now holding with you as Federal Chancellor. They are a chancellor with a title without means that has fallen into all areas of content. This is already seen on the government's seat today: Behind me, Mr. Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer, right flanked by ÖVP Vice Chancellor Molterer, then ÖVP Foreign Minister Plassnik, then ÖVP Minister of the Environment Pröll, on the left also ÖVP Minister, former Minister of Defence, now Minister of the Interior Platter, then Minister of Economic Affairs Bartenstein. – So the red German chancellor is formally encapsulated by the ÖVP. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] And that's exactly how you have to see God's too. Dr. Gusenbauer's sandbox dream has been fulfilled. He has a day of joy today – unlike those people who were on the 1st. The SPÖ has given confidence in October in the hope that something will change in substance, that the globalization madness that has already been addressed today will finally end the European Union's madness, and that a social policy will be restored to ensure that we look at the little ones in the country and represent their interests, that we comply with the election promises that have been made and that the tuition fees are abolished. The fact that everything, even the last shirt, has been given in the field, is rightly outraged by people. I remember this very well – you of the Greens have rolled out a transparency on this matter today –: ==References====External links== October, the SPÖ has pasted: Social fighter instead of Eurofighter! – What is the result today? Today, Dr. Gusenbauer is an ÖVP fighter, but not a social fighter. He's an ÖVP fighter! [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] The Eurofighters will not be cancelled, which is basically fixed. [[Abg. Großruck: We already knew that before!]] That's where you fell down, and you took your shirt. With the tuition fees, you have covered the pants. In the case of mineral oil tax, which is to be priced, They leave the red socks and are now, as it were, the replacement for the government-retired Minister Grasser as a zero-deficit fetishist. And then you left the underwear at the Eurofighters – and today the chancellor is standing with new clothes. All the clothes are taken off, all contents are stored, but the main thing is that you are the Federal Chancellor: a Federal Chancellor who is in fact a sub-rent of the ÖVP! The main tenant is in the case of Vice-Chancellor Molterer, where you have to say, of course, where Molterer stands on it is always a bowl inside. That's right, these are the twins of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There has been no change in the content of the programme before – except for the basic assurance, apologies, there is a renewal! With regard to basic security, the ÖVP has said together with the SPÖ that in the future there will be an unemployed basic income of € 726. Well, since every decent worker who has to work hard and doesn't earn much more than €726 a month will really thank him if he hears it now, some who are not at all willing to deliver a performance will receive €726 in unemployment basic income in the future. In the field of education, you will find out what great achievements there will be. 25 students per class – it would be nice if you had also committed this to the government program, but you only write again as everywhere, that is a goal of us instead of making it mandatory that it be implemented as soon as possible. If Mr Cap has spoken today that the three opposition parties have had the opportunity: Please, Dr. Cap, don't tell the voters wrong! Who has said during the entire election campaign that we cannot imagine any form of cooperation with the FPÖ?- Oh, my God! It was the SPÖ representatives who said that there was no cooperation with the FPÖ throughout the election campaign! The representatives of the Austrian People's Party, who also said during the entire election campaign, did not cooperate with the Freedom Party! We are in the word of the voters, and we have been the only party in this House to speak. That's the difference! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, you've been the only possible coalition if you assume that a two-coalition was on 1st. ==References== If you have quoted me with the ability to live, I tell you, yes, this programme of the new government can be summarized: too little to live, but too much to die for the citizens of this country. That is the content, and that is quite disappointing for many. If today a prominent SPÖ member like Androsch says that Bruno Kreisky would turn around in the grave, then he's right. He may not be the Profundest who should say this because he is himself a representative of the large industrial interests, but he is right in the core. Dr. Gusenbauer, who has repeatedly said that he sees Kreisky as an example for himself, has in fact all that Kreisky once worked out in terms of content – and I say this figuratively now, for just as you have to see it – to let it disappear on the garbage dump. And that is disappointing, that is disappointing for many people! Many people have lost their feet for you because they had the hope that something will change through you. Despite the BAWAG scandal you have run for the SPÖ, despite the ÖGB scandal, despite the fact that you later betrayed the pensioners, despite all kinds of scandals, started from the “consum”. You have run for the SPÖ because they had the hope that you will implement your promises. And now people come up with it: Everything's different! After the election, a trade union bank is destroyed by a speculant fund, the American speculant fund company Cerberus, in German Hellenhond. All the interests of social democracy are to be found in the grave. The social conscience is carried to the grave. That is why I can only say that I invite all the people who are rightly disappointed by your behavior to go a little bit of the way with us in the future, because with us you can be sure of one sure and certain: [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] We keep word! Not all of what I say, you always have to be able to sign. That's not a question. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Since yesterday!]] But if I say something, you know that you can rely on it and that I stand for it – and that's exactly the reliability in politics. It needs reliability in politics! If you make an election as a politician, you also have to keep it. It was today about compromises: These are not compromises that have come about! This is really a task that has taken place. Not for nothing the words of a former SPÖ Chancellor Sinowatz, who once said: The party is all, and I'm nothing! – Yes, one has the impression today that Dr. Gusenbauer turned this saying: He's all, and the party doesn't count anything. This is obviously the new motto. [[Abg. Großruck: We've heard that before! Bring something new, this is an old hat!]] – If you were at my New Year’s event yesterday, I can congratulate you, then this is the first way to improve, and They're reorientating. I'm glad to hear that. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] In the end, Dr. Gusenbauer has remained true to his course in recent years when it has been a matter of acting consistently against the interests of the population. There was the station in Moscow with the kiss at that time, where the ground could not defend itself. There was the second station in Paris and the Champagne-Gelage with the Brussels Sanctions Lobbies, which celebrated at that time that they started sanctions against Austria. Then there was the third station: the swimming pool plan at millionaires in Mallorca, while Austria sank in the flood, where one did not worry about having to stop the holiday. Then there was the fourth station that the SPÖ has placed on their list in the election campaign a neoliberal man who is also sitting in the House today, from the Liberal Forum someone who is really not suspected of representing social interests. And now Gusenbauer is a sub-owner of ÖVP-Gnaden in the Federal Chancellery – that is now, as it were, the final station. As Dr. Cap probably already today a little Freud’s promiseer, when he said: Apparently, it is the future model that the club members will be the future chancellors in the future. He probably already sees himself as chancellor and as successor to Dr. Gusenbauer. That's probably what he's meant by this comparison he brought. [[Abg. Parnigoni:... refer to yourself?]] - No, there's no need for it. Don't worry about it. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Thank God!]] We stand on our contents, and we will not throw our contents like the SPÖ overboard. We have experienced this painfully in our past. There, Dr. Haider has a lot in common with Dr. Gusenbauer: The ÖVP has experienced a defeat – and both have exhumed the ÖVP again. You can already see this at the distribution of the resorts: Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Labour has the ÖVP. It seems that SPÖ's work as a subject area is no longer important. It seems that there is no interest in determining the financial sector and changing and renewing it, which is why the zero deficit fetishism is being continued. For the other ministries similar pictures: Ministry of Foreign Affairs remains in the hands of the ÖVP, Ministry of the Interior in the hands of the Austrian People's Party. In reality, everything has been abandoned – but a civil servant has been made Minister of Defense. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A really great thing: a civil servant as a minister of defense, who had a problem of conscience, a problem of conscience, to take the weapon in his hand. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: An objector!]] So either he's dizzy at the time or today, because if he has a conscience problem, he's not allowed to become Minister of Defense. Because if a crisis comes to our country, then one has to rely on the Minister of Defence to be able to use it, if necessary, also our federal army accordingly. And this is a threat to our security, a threat to Austrian security, if he does not agree that he may have been wrong at the time and yet has no problem of conscience with it. Actually, as Mr. Dr. Gusenbauer said, and there he is right to do, he would not be harming the post-war service. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] But it wouldn't hurt Dr. Gusenbauer to get the military service. It was then, I think, coffee picks in Nicaragua and in Austria because of locusts freed from military service. But I know many in the High House who were liberated from military service at the time: because of the inconsistency of Klubobmann Dr. Schüssel or also the new Vice Chancellor Molterer, who was released after my information. The divorced Finance Minister Grasser had flat feet – in the tennis game they didn't disturb at all. So there are already differences between some. Some are more like others and can apparently better judge in this country. You should hold on to that, too, and remove a bit of morality that may become visible to some behind it. We stand on our topics of content, which we have represented in the election campaign. And we miss in the government programme that we really have to deal with essential problems. The problem of immigration is a problem. In recent years, another 300,000 immigrants have come to Austria. And you definitely write in your government program: Further immigration is agreed. They keep doing this. I have a paper from the Bank Austria Credit Institute, an evaluation of the 2007 government programme that experts have made, and there are interesting points in it – I quote –: In all, the government programme is expected to contain many declarations of intent and relatively little concreteness. 40 working groups, we have already heard – yes, if you no longer know, then you start a working group. Right after the motto: If we don't do anything concrete, let's open everything up! It is also in this preparation of the Bank Austria with regard to the area of referendum on Turkey's accession to the EU: Only after the outcome of the negotiations has a referendum been agreed. – Too late, I tell you! Now the Austrians want to decide, now they want to express their clear rejection. And if you are talking about minority rights, Dr. Cap, then start to strengthen democracy in our country and finally make binding referendums possible and to support with us! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Direct democracy needs our country, binding referendums, so that such a paralysis of government, which is already in place at the beginning of the period, can be broken by the population, so that the population can also have the opportunity, if a government is not prepared to implement the interests of the people, to force the government to implement certain content in the context of a referendum – such as a better and sharper asylum law, such as that of Switzerland with a referendum, as in the area of the rejection of Turkey's accession, as well as in other areas. That would be an important step. It is also to be read in the preparation of the Bank of Austria experts that the reduction of restrictions on competition in the professions has been specifically agreed. – The pharmacists, the notaries, the doctors, the lawyers will be pleased that the next attack will be prepared for the professions. It goes on: It is interesting where it is said that bilateral employment agreements should be negotiated with the new Member States during the transitional periods. - All right! What are the transitional periods for us when we interrupt them and negotiate contracts quite again so that other cheap workers can come back to Austria and there will be wage dumping again? The increase in mineral oil tax – for diesel to 3 cents, for petrol to 1 cents – again the opposite of what you said! More taxes, which are up and which, as experts at Bank Austria have calculated, will cost taxpayers 300 to 350 million €! [[Abg. Kurt Eder: Who are the experts?]] – These are experts from Bank Austria. I read it to you: This is an official expert paper from Bank Austria to evaluate the government programme, and this is very interesting. It goes on to say – I will read it to you immediately – that the social security contributions are increased. First of all, there will be a juicy increase in contributions, and from the Bank Austria it says: A deficit is to be made up of half by savings and by increasing contributions – plus 0.15 percent. A reduction in expenditure by efficiency increase of 300 million by 2008 and a further 100 million by 2010. As far as the increase in social security contributions by 0.15 percent is concerned, it is not yet clear how the breakdown between workers and employers will take place. But it is clear that both are again burdened, probably fifty to fifty! In addition to wage costs, workers are likely to be charged 50 per cent, and employers are taxed! This is how it draws like a red thread through the assessment that is a disaster. Finally, the following results: In the medium term, a balanced budgetary balance is now to be achieved by 2010 instead of so far 2008. However, for at least good economic conditions, €3 billion of savings are necessary to meet your government programme! That is, not a discharge, but a burden is ahead of the citizens! The question is: When and where will be You're taking these stress steps? – This is a load package that you have anchored yourself, and today you try to present it as something else with anointing words. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Since I am already at the end of my speaking time, it is important to explain our position clearly. The social state is our concern – but social state, please, for citizens, not for people who migrate to us, from the first day! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is the difference between our program and your view. There must be differences here. There are citizens' rights, and there is more to a citizen's rights and rights than someone who migrations to us. At the end of the integration leaders, when he has decided positively and becomes a citizen, he will also have all the rights, but not from the beginning! This is exactly what it is all about, and that is what we must implement if we are to secure the social state in the future. It cannot be the case that any family allowance and child allowance are granted; this should be reserved for citizens, up to social housing. This is our social responsibility. We must tackle a family relief offensive for citizens so that our children can afford more than one child! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] I come to the conclusion: We need a discharge package for small and medium-sized businesses, because this is our social responsibility, so that there are more jobs in the country and people also have work again, and hopefully, we should take care of it, with a sufficient salary, not just as you plan, with an unemployed basic income.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e5941	Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Schüssel, spoke next time, also with a speaking time of 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e5962	Mr President. High house! First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much for the gesture at the beginning of the meeting, for the mourning minutes of commemoration of the suddenly tragically dead Minister of the Interior Lese Prokop, who wanted to sit at home for dinner on New Year's Eve, even entered the rescue car and died on the way to the hospital. It should also, I believe, relativize a little the political debate and should also show on such a day that we respect each other. That is why thanks also to all the retired members of the government, by Vice-chanc Gorbach, started on the Minister and State Secretary! A part of it, as elected representatives, continues to take up political work. I think it belongs to that we also see that we are building on the work of earlier political generations. The success story of Austria did not begin in 2000 or 2007, but it is actually an unbroken one since 1945. I would also like to thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for today a number of sentences have been heard, which have already been remarkable for us and which have also done well, such as: Austria is one of the safest countries in the world; in Austria, organic agriculture is unique across Europe; Austria has one of the world's best medical care systems – that sounds quite different from the two-class medical fear of earlier; Austria has a proven system of social security and fairness. And the government programme says: The Austrian pension system is one of the best in the world. – We believe that too! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] We have worked on it and thank you for this fair assessment that comes from your Federal Chancellor. I understand, of course, the melancholy of Professor Van der Bellen, because I've been tracking this back and forth. They have always strongly criticized us during the weeks of the negotiations – I mean now the People's Party: First of all, you have criticized us for negotiating a great coalition; then you have criticized us for interrupting us; then you have warned again of the great coalition. There was also the back and forth concerning minority government, yes or no, that is clear. That means, a little bit I already understand the melancholy about you not coming back. Consider, too, whether it is wise that you actually have any form of a different majority formation – which, of course, always exists! – From the beginning excluded! I know it's difficult; no one knows better than I know it's not always easy to work together. But it is possible, and in fact I believe that we must respect each other so far that everyone here in Parliament accepts from the other and we assume that it is democrats, people who are the heart of the country and who want to work for a red-and-white-red future. No one can be excluded from it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and BZÖ.]] Now to Josef Cap, the clubman of the SPÖ, who obviously still has some transitional problems to deal with – but of course no one understands better than I – and because today has also been talking about after-help giving or taking: [[Rejoicing and condolences with the ÖVP]] If You are already criticizing the situation of state finances – which is, of course, your right – then I can provide some information about how we took over state finances in 1999. At that time, the reported deficit of 1999 was 2.2 percent. It threatened a 3.3 percent deficit for the year 2000 – without any measures we have then taken. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: You were in the government!]] – But you have put the Minister of Finance and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, this is a very small difference that we have now taken care of, ladies and gentlemen! That's what the public should know. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are handing over a budget deficit, which is one third of what we took over in 2000. I think it's a good place to build on it. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] Be a little careful with the lattice or the on-the-tree climb! At the end of the legislative period, let us look at how the debt of the ÖBB, the ASFINAG or the distributed companies will be if we do what we want to do together, namely to make one of the most massive infrastructure investments, from 2000 to 2010. And then we'll compare, Josef Cap! So realism is in order. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is probably also true with regard to the evaluation of the government programme. Mr Professor, of course it is clear that at the beginning of a legislative period, every measure for four years cannot be specified in detail. That's quite clear. But be just as fair and say that it is precisely about the two things that are very important to you – and, honestly, all of us too – that the conversion or expansion of Austria to a knowledge society and the sustainability issue are extremely concrete. This concerns the universities, for example. By the way, the Austrian universities are – thanks to Liesl Gehrer – those in Europe who have guaranteed budgets for the next four years with an increase of 10 percent and an investment programme of € 1 billion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's a huge advantage! We will only have 1,000 new researchers at the universities in the next few years. We will invest in education; of which one billion € will add about two thirds to education, research and science. To say that's not concrete, that's just not true. As far as energy policy is concerned, too, things that I believe are extremely ambitious: the conversion of 100 000 households to renewable energy in this legislative period, from 400 000 households to 2020; the doubling of the share of biodiesel in transport; the increase in the share of renewable energy by 2020; the research foundation to be used in this area. In the field of agricultural policy: the conversion of rural areas, particularly at European and Austrian level, for these purposes. We don't need to go to school with Franz Fischler, but he inspired us: This is the programme of Franz Fischler, our joint programme, which we are setting out here. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Of course you can say: That's still too little, and you need to sharpen there and there; no question. But I believe that this programme is an excellent one in these areas, especially in terms of sustainability, concern for the future, concern for the young. What I'm very happy about is: Europe is indeed a red-and-white-red concern in this federal government, and it is a sign of living continuity. The EU – and I say so in the direction of Klubobmann Strache – is a powerful shield with the common commercial policy, and consider what it would mean if we were not inside. We have to produce 50 percent of the Austrian gross domestic product in export! A powerful protection and shield is given by the European Union. We have a huge security zone – with Schengen, with all the rules of the game – which will now expand, after very careful and careful preparation. The euro area ensures monetary stability. Think about how vulnerable we would have been, we would have a small currency that is not worth neglecting on an international scale, such as schilling! And within this stable euro zone, Austria has one of the lowest inflation rates. What you must not overlook – and what I think is a historical opportunity – is: ==References== January 2007, for 14 days, the Danube is a European, an internal European river, an EU river from the source to the mouth of the Black Sea. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: That's what she was doing before!]] [[Call the FPÖ:And Serbia?]] – Serbia is still on the way. This is a very exciting topic, because Austria is in the middle of this future zone, in this hope zone, and we can, of course, take advantage of a historic opportunity. For the first time – and this is more than just a change of name – we have a minister for European and international affairs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hauser.]] Nothing foreign or present or negative, but European and international matters: This is a programme, ladies and gentlemen, and a good programme for it! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Everyone, from the Federal Chancellor to the Minister of Foreign Affairs to the respective Minister of Trade, must, of course, take part in this European responsibility. A sentence that I noticed, Federal Chancellor: In your place, I would not have just talked about transatlantic relations and their deepening. I believe that we can say Austrians, just as we do about relations with the Russian Federation, that we want a proper relationship with America, with the USA. Because we owe the Americans a lot! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is also to be said today, ladies and gentlemen. Another sentence on Josef Cap. If I heard it right, you said: Now we finally have a voice for Europe again. – You must have been a bit deaf in the last seven years, because this voice is the same: Ursula Plassnik is the same voice as in the last two years, which has been excellent for us and has our full confidence, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We by the People's Party will vote in full support of this programme. All that we have done before the election, what we have promised in the election campaign, can be found in this programme; of course, also ideas and suggestions that have been taken up by the social democratic government partner. We can therefore all have more than 1.5 million voters, who are on 1st. In October, the vote was as follows: We stand by our statements, and we will work with full strength and full commitment for this Austria for the next four years. Federal Chancellor! Dear Vice Chancellor Molterer! Make a near-to-life policy with this programme! Above all, give people confidence and hope with what we have done – Parliament and Government – with what you have done! Think of the boys, not the headline of tomorrow or the day after, but really what the boys will have of our joint actions in ten or only fifteen or twenty years! Let us jointly consolidate the social network, but not as hammock, but as a springing trampoline, as Martin Bartenstein once said! Ensuring the freedom of choice of citizens: for taxpayers, the taxpayer by reducing the tax rate and the possibility to decide for yourself what happens to his or her money; for families with the option of child care; for parents and young people by a differentiated education system. Look at the taxpayers' money! The loads are two inside, with regard to health – 0.15 percent – and the mineral oil tax. We would not have needed the Bank Austria and the CA, that is what is in the government programme. [[Abg. Strache: That was promised before...!]] It also serves the interests of citizens – in the form of first-class medical education – and the development of infrastructure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Last sentence. Also defend our homeland, regardless of whether we are being attacked or whether there are dangers from inside or outside! That is the duty of a federal government. We support you in this.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e6149	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. Speaking time: also 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e6171	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Austrian Federal Government! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! You only think about the optics when you sit here in the bank series, look forward and see a far-reaching government bank, a huge federal government. I had almost a bit of a worry before – let me have this idea – when I see Mrs. Silhavy holding on to the government bank so that, once Mr. Matznetter coughs properly, she does not tip down. I hope that doesn't happen. But that's how big this government is! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It's just so big that it doesn't fit the government bank anymore – also a picture that's one that's significant! [[Abg. Ollinger: That's more embarrassing!]] [[Abg. Riepl: A weak start!]] Dr. Gusenbauer! I quote something to you: We need a government in Austria, for which on the day before the election also the same applies the day after the election. And in Austria, we do not need a German chancellor of broken promises, but in Austria we need a German chancellor who keeps his word. That's why I'm on Sunday. - Quote. This was said by Alfred Gusenbauer three days before the National Council election at the SPÖ election ceremony. And a few days before the election a member information of the SPÖ appeared: I will keep my word – Alfred Gusenbauer, with his counterfee on it. It is already significant what happened in the meantime. Now you could say: Well, the opposition always criticizes it. Also here are quotations after the choice: “First time in the history of post-war Austria, one will be appointed as the Federal Chancellor, who has lost his political weight even before he even takes up his office.” “The apathy of smiling, with which Gusenbauer sees the defeat that everyone is trying to sell as success, the helplessness with which Cap is the way the ÖVP’s SPÖ went to the knife, has taken the last of credibility from the two.” – This is what Peter Warta wrote in the “Standard” on 10 October. January. Or Michael Völker writes, also in the “Standard, ” on 9 May. year(s) “Alfred Gusenbauer is German chancellor – with lowered pants.” “The SPÖ has practically broken all the promises and announcements it has issued in the election campaign as slogans for the start of government.” “Gusenbauer starts as chancellor with the heavy Loads of broken electoral promises, with an almost ridiculous list of ministers and a government programme that is very difficult for SPÖs to sell.” Peter Rabl in the "Kurier" on 14 November. year(s) “Never before has a chancellor made such a bad start as Gusenbauer.” It had become “unbearable how the new chancellor Alfred Gusenbauer tried to speak and calculate his all-encompassed start. ” “Swallowly turned up, loosely loosely, clearly extravagant. After a quote from Henry Kissinger, he was deeply impressed by himself.” “Medicine knows the phenomenon that intense desire limits thinking ability. Gusenbauer shows all the symptoms of chancellor greed,” writes Peter Rabl. And that is exactly what we are asking ourselves today after these events of the last week, where handshake quality no longer applies, where confidence and hope have been broken in youth, in voters, in citizens, in members also of the Social Democratic Party. The question to be asked, Dr. Gusenbauer, with all the fine sentences of the Government Convention: Is that worth it? Or what is it worth fooling people in such a way and leading them behind the light for fulfilling a sandbox dream that now people are standing there asking themselves: What was I actually choosing, what was I for, what did this election actually bring if all that has been promised has not come and has been sacrificed to the principle “principle of chancellors!”? We see the demonstrations on TV. Now everyone says: That was the case in 2000. - Yes, it was. The difference is that at the time the demonstrators demonstrated against another party. Today it is your own people who are going to the street. And I'm just right to add: They've been your own people going to the street, because you've already lost them. You have mass withdrawals from the SPÖ, you have to lock the ball house square, you have to enter SPÖ events as freshly baked chancellors through the back door, you need police protection. Is that worth the capitulation of the SPÖ? They like to quote Bruno Kreisky, Bruno Kreisky, the sun king. If you compare the picture, Dr. Gusenbauer, you are on your way into a red sunset and might perhaps enter history as chancellors and party chairman of the red solar eclipse. That's why you have to remember these election promises, because there has been a comprehensive election betrayal. There is today a government of the break-up and, ultimately, a disastrous misstart of this government. I cannot list all the broken election promises, I have only 20 minutes of speaking time, but we will certainly also be able to do so in the context of the urgent request. That is, if you compare your promises or the SPÖ election program before the election with the centenary calendar, then the latter is actually a work of reliability and precision, because it holds even more than your electoral programme. Come now You come here and say that you can't remember much anymore or you can interpret a lot about like in the division of resorts. That's why I've been thinking about what present I am handing over to you today as Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. And because you just can't remember so many things, I thought a book is doing it – you should read a lot – and that's why I allowed myself to pass on the book “The Training of Memory”. [[The speaker keeps the book up to date.]] “The memory training” is an interesting book with three chapters. First chapter: ‘Insight as a way to improve’, second chapter: ‘The stages of memory’, third chapter: “Why do we forget?” with subsequent memory test and exercises for each day. I hope you're better, Federal Chancellor. I'm allowed to hand this over to you. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[The speaker presented the book to Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer.]] In fact, I also wanted to bring a present to Mr Vice-Chancellor, namely the book of real socialism. I saved myself that, because he's got that every day anyway. [[Cheerfulness with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] That's why, I think, this gift is superfluous, because he experiences it every day. We will therefore make a motion for a resolution on the basis of these broken promises – one can say, broken promises; they are broken but also broken promises – this afternoon, because we want to see what it is like not to make election promises acceptable. Why not? Why should not Dr. Gusenbauer, if, for example, he wants to abolish the tuition fees and then not do it, also provide a social service for €6 per hour? Today, Dr. Gusenbauer, it was really cynical when you said: Yeah, I do what the students do. Do you know what the big difference is between you and a student? – You have 19 500 € Merit a month, and that doesn't have a student in that country. It is therefore cynical to produce and say: I'm also like a student and I'm on social service. I really regard this as cynical and not comprehensible, Mr. Dr. Gusenbauer. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It's similar with the Ministries. The cabaret position between Vienna and Styria, which went live on show, cannot be surpassed. I wonder what the Villacher carnival will do. You can't overwhelm what happened there, how suddenly, in minutes, ministers were ordered. And it looks the same. We are still wondering what a Mrs Silhavy, for example, is doing. Or you also have to ask the question of how the grandiose idea actually came to be to make a civil servant who rejects the German army the Minister of Defense. For example, I would like to ask myself this question with the Minister of Justice, who is the first official to act immediately with democracy on the foot of the war, saying: In order to solve the problem of the Carinthian local panels, we stop the head of the Carinthian state, who is democratically elected by a majority in Carinthia, although everyone knows – and everyone who knows a little bit – that there can be no choice and no redundancies on your part. Minister for Justice, I recommend the following: Learn Democracy as Minister of Justice! You need that because you can't elect a democratically elected head of state. Secondly, before developing such harsh ideas, I recommend that you consider how you get home to your party friend and comrade Elsner from France and finally stick behind bars. That would be your job, Mrs Minister of Justice, and not to replace the heads of state in Austria. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Interesting, too, is the new family minister – we look at this even more closely – who today conveys her attitude to family and children in the “Small Newspaper”. The main issue is that if she has a noble dinner or sits on a plane to New York, she is disturbing children there. An interesting statement to read today in the “Small Newspaper. ” As you have said as a current family minister, you have to explain that to us. We also come to the analysis of the government programme. It's actually hard because it's a catalogue of headlines. A commentator, Hubert Patterson, wrote in the “Small Newspaper”, the government pact is of depressing courage. Mr Androsch says that's the death pill for the SPÖ. Erich Haider says that this government agreement is incompatible with the credibility of the party. - Highly interesting! Mr Rudolf Edlinger, also a comrade, former Minister of Finance, says: I'm disappointed. It happened what I feared. Your chairman of socialist youth – I don't know if he's still a party member – says it's a negotiation debacle. And it really brought to the point the former Minister of Social Affairs Lore Hostasch. It simply said to the Government Convention: I'm hurting! And you can imagine that this hurts, because, Dr. Gusenbauer, the big announced educational reform is simply not taking place, which has been canceled. She can't be found. They have written things in which Parliament has already decided, such as about 25 students per class. That is what we have already decided here, but this is now suddenly only a guideline in the Government Convention. Otherwise, you have only formed working groups and the study fees have actually made you not social, but even more unsocial, because now a deep gap will arise between those who can afford it and those who cannot afford it. Those who can afford it will pay the tuition fee, they may still be taxed. But you meet exactly those you didn't want to meet, those who can't afford it. The poor, who come from socially lower strata, are then simply obliged to enter the social service, and I really do not lose what you have written in it, namely to enter the hospice service. That is, students who have no education and who are forced to do something are supposed to care for people who are dying. It can't be! We also reject this, which is wrong, since we prefer to say that there should be social fair tuition fees with a system of scholarships – with a third of the students already receiving scholarships and not having to pay the tuition fees. But not this way out, which you have chosen here and which you yourself have brought in, according to the leader of the ÖVP, bowl. They themselves made this proposal in November. Highly interesting also to hear how you seem to have lost your own party here. The “Press” commented on the educational chapter of Mrs Martina Salomon as follows: “Alfred Gusenbauer has promised something. It is said that an educational reform will be at the heart of a social democratic government. Now the “heart” has become a blindend”. – And so is it. The only thing that remains is that you suddenly make it easier to announce young people, the weakest of young people, apprentices. Thank you! Thank you very much, Social Democracy! Suddenly, the cancellation protection for apprentices is gone. These can only be terminated in the first three months of their probationary period, after the first year of teaching, after the second year of teaching. This is a massive attack on the dismissal protection of apprentices, which the trade union rightly criticizes and which we also reject. What can the apprentices do to prevent you from persecuting yourself? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Also on the subject of social affairs, the core issue of SPÖ, we simply have to make a urgent request today, because what the Minister of Social Affairs has so far done is not from bad parents either. He has no idea of the budget schedule at all. He puts himself on the “Openly Said ” program and tells people: There is €400 million a year more for social and €200 million more per year for education. Only: It's not in the budget schedule. There are quite different numbers in there. He has brought people back to light: after the election, in front of ongoing television cameras and in front of a million audience, Minister of Social Affairs. I understand that you're in pain with it, because you're a Social Minister today who's been picked up in his Ministry of Social Affairs. They wanted work competence back from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. You failed, you didn't. You have lost family competence, and you have lost more skills, such as those for youth. They are actually present today as a minister without competence and have to talk constantly about topics that you cannot influence. But you see how in the care sector not only does not increase, but perhaps a valorization takes place once in the legislative period. No word of a real increase, a valorization. They see how cryptically the government Convention stands, the disability pension is harmonised because there are different professional groups. Do you know what that means? They want to cut the disability pension. That's your real intention. That's where we'll see exactly what's happening so you don't meet the poorest people here. And you're looking at the load package that's here. I must say that Dr. Schüssel has openly admitted that there are loads inside, such as health insurance contributions. For seven years we didn't need this, we didn't have to make an increase in health insurance contributions. [[Abg. Oillinger: That's not true!]] You have listed that there are further burdens, you have only forgotten one thing, because here there is also a burden within which all people meet the same, namely the comprehensive increase in fees, all fees, every year, the valorization. And that will also include a volume of about € 100 million. Dr. Gusenbauer! I wonder, what is social and what is the fight against poverty, how to raise all the charges and how to make everything more expensive with this government, as in Vienna after the election. We have honoured the minimum guarantee. This too will be a topic in the afternoon. 726 € for non-time, 1 000 € Minimum wage for full employment. That's unfair! We hear nothing about the tax reform far and wide. Mr. Gusenbauer has promised 500 € for everyone. It's not in the government agreement. Car drivers are being taxed. And we have the biggest government. That was interesting, too, when Dr. Gusenbauer said 19 can't be divided by two, so we'll do 20 in the future. – This is government policy now. By the way, not the first time. That's what's ever happened in the union. In the appointment of the Board of Association, there were three. Three can't be divided by two, so we make four, two red and two black. And so, apparently, the occupation continues over the next few weeks, a self-sufficiency special. With the Eurofighters, as we know, you've come across sad. They wanted to cancel her off. Now come on, it's not possible. Now the Minister of Civil Service says we want to save. He says we want to save, but at the same time, with the knowledge of the government parties, he transfers the first tranche of € 218 million to the EADS Group. There's not a euro saved. And you won't be able to save anything at all. You know, one you can save: If you transfer the annual rates and the quarterly rates directly and not by license, you will save yourself the issue fee. That's the only thing you can save in this story. But here, too, you have finally lost the voters and have not been able to fulfill your promises. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We have 40 working groups in the Government Convention. We've already recognized this. And what I find interesting is the mood. They're all kind of a little sad. Mr. Cap was sitting on the first day after the presentation in the “ZiB 2” and pushed some tears and said: I'm really sad. The Minister for Social Affairs said: This government agreement hurts me, I'm affected. For pain relief, he has the opportunity to comment on this in the urgent request in the afternoon. Mr Cap then wants to renegotiate. The SPÖ Vorarlberg wants to renegotiate. The pact doesn't last even 48 hours. They have not only started weakly, but also left much behind. And not even your own party – you have to imagine that! – not even one’s own family is behind the pact! 25 percent of SPÖ's party board rejected the pact. And you know what I'm saying to you, there are actually twice as many, because many have only agreed to do so – let us be honest, Mr Gaál nodds – to prevent another government: To get to the government, we agreed. But there is much more that is against this government pact, because, as Erich Haider of the SPÖ says, he is unsocial, and is therefore not carried by his own party. Dr. Gusenbauer is now going here and wants to change the rules. He says now, no, it's all right anyway, the ministerial division is all right. He says I now have the key resorts. Although the ÖVP has internal, external, financial and social issues, the SPÖ says, no, our are the right ones. We're going to change the rules now. Do you know what that is? It's like a football coach whose team has lost two to one after 90 minutes, say those who shoot less goals have won. Dr. Gusenbauer now seems to me in the evaluation. Of fairness, of other claims he has made, actually no word. It is also interesting that conflict is already beginning in the government. What does it look like? Maybe we can still hear that. What about the privatisations? Mr Bartenstein? OMV? Telekom? That's where Mr. Matznetter passed you over. Don't get into question, it's called. Who really is to blame on the disaster of tuition fees? Broukal says, the ÖVP, the ÖVP says, the SPÖ. Then, too, we have nice things that are directed, for example, by a SPÖ head of state, who does not see Mr Molterer as just a renewal in the ÖVP. Also interesting. All this shows that this government will not have a long life, and that is why, because you always say, we have no ideas, including a resolution with a counter-programme, a resolution with exactly 20 points in which we demand a tax reform, youth policy measures in which we fix in detail all that you now have in the government agreement. This motion for a resolution, in which we have our counter-model, with which we want to do a great deal for young people in particular, I shall bring it in. Federal Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! They have spread hope, reaped disappointment. They have gone out to be Popular Chancellors, and today they stand as chancellors of the word without a people. They wanted to be reliable partners and are now abandoned by voters and their own officials. They have announced social warmth and have given social competence to the wardrobe of the Federal Chancellery. They wanted to rule sparingly and have the largest and most expensive government. They have promised fairness and have unfair burdens on everyone in the government agreement. They have been fully opposed to poverty and today stand empty-handed. You are at the beginning of your government, but at the end of your march by the institutions. I congratulate you on that! The fact that you have destroyed the credibility, hope and trust of your party is one thing, but that in recent weeks you have also been responsible for the destruction of credibility, hope and trust in politics as a whole, it cannot be forgiven you. This is the damage to the Republic of Austria and its people. Her sandbox dream came true. The price is high, in our opinion too high! We will therefore make every effort to ensure that people do not have to pay the bill for this price that you have set high today. We will therefore in any case be a constructive opposition, which not only criticises but also brings in proposals for improvement – we will take you by the word – in any case we will be a reliable partner of the Austrians over the next four years.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e6313	I announce that the motion for a resolution by Mrs Ing, which has just been put forward in his key points, has just been presented. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues were also presented in writing and are sufficiently supported. He is therefore involved in the negotiations. In view of the extent of the application, I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. Copy and distribute 4 of the Rules of Procedure. In addition, this request will also be accompanied by the Stenographical Protocol. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e6937	Mr. Mag, Vice-Chancellor, spoke from the government bank. Molterer. – Mr Vice-Chancellor, I am setting the clock at 30 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e6959	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen at the audience gallery, in front of the TV screens at home! Two parties, the Social Democracy and the Austrian People's Party, have decided to work together; two parties with different history have a different tradition, but one goal. With this agreement, ladies and gentlemen, the motto is: “Work together for Austria!” [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We agree because both parties have done a lot for Austria, ladies and gentlemen. We have a very, very good starting point here, and I would like to clarify this in the face of some of the current debate and to put it out of dispute. This federal government does not start with zero, ladies and gentlemen, this federal government starts from a strong base, namely from a strong and successful Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, Austria is right there. We have one of the highest jobs compared to the European Union. We have one of the lowest unemployment rates in international comparison. We have one of the best pension systems in the world. We have one of the best health systems in the world. And it's true, we're one of the safest countries in the world. We have a growth rate of 3.2 percent to envy us from many European countries. This makes us strong, and this makes us optimistic, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have a budget situation that we can be proud of because we have developed it together with the Austrians – a solid foundation for the future. This, ladies and gentlemen, makes us optimistic, there is every reason for optimism, and I invite all Austrians to design with optimism these next four years. As a Federal Government, we are not alone in this design task. There you, ladies and gentlemen, are just as demanded of the opposition, as are the workers, the entrepreneurs in that country. We invite you to: Follow us on this path of the good future for Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, it is so – as all speakers are right – that we must respect the environment in which politics is made in Austria. We do not operate on an island of the Blessed, as in the 1970s in Austria it was political consciousness and going and going. No, we look over the edge of the plate, we are in international competition and are therefore also required to shape in this international environment the rules of the game and the policies that are possible to us, and that with all our strength, not by closing our eyes and shooting ourselves off, but by being open and by our own strength making the best for the country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why, Mr Van der Bellen, budget and economic policy, it is not a self-evident objective, I know very well, but it is a matter of orientation and serves two central objectives. The objective is to strengthen Austria's economic location, and the second – equally important – goal to create full employment in Austria. This is the aim of the Federal Government: To achieve site strengthening and full employment, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's what we're working for. Of course, it is a prerequisite – and this is what economic sense tells us – that we want and will achieve a balanced budget over the economic cycle – because it is simply right. We can no longer spend more than we take. At the same time, however, it is political – and this will be done by the Federal Government – to invest in important future areas, in areas such as education, research and infrastructure. We both have to do this: to budget and to invest properly. This is a sensible budgetary and economic policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] You can read this in the government agreement black on white. The budget path is presented for everyone and can therefore be controlled. It is very concrete – contrary to what was claimed – what we are actually striving for. In 2006 we had about a budget deficit of 1.1 percent. We have the goal of making this deficit a surplus of 0.4 percent in 2010. It's black on white. Check us! Measure us by the results, ladies and gentlemen! We're going to work with full confidence. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I will therefore present to you, as soon as possible, a double budget for the years 2007 and 2008, and we will then present this Elk test of our reason for budgetary and economic policy to you in detail, Mr Van der Bellen, and all those who are now criticising. I guarantee that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] But it is not only a matter of achieving a balanced budget, it is not enough for us to invest in the right future projects, but it is a prerequisite for successful budget and economic policy that we continue to devote ourselves to reform work in this country. The reform, the change is a driving force for growth and thus also for full employment – set correctly. And we understand ourselves as the driving force behind these reforms, so that we can also be on this path to full employment. Of course, there are priorities for further development in the field of education. It is important to ensure freedom of choice on the one hand and to optimise transitions from one level of education to the next in order to create the best possible educational conditions. Of course, the question of further deregulation is an important concern to stimulate competition. Competition creates growth, ladies and gentlemen, and gives impetus. It is the question of course also with us in the administration itself. We need to be more efficient. This is also a standard for reducing obstacles to people's development through reforms. This is the task of politics. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, this is part of the state and administrative reform. Yes, but not alone in the covenant, I say that very openly. State and administrative reform is not an exclusive task of the Federal Government and the Federal Government, but it applies to federal, state and local authorities in the same way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I therefore also invite the local authorities to take this path offensively. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The opposition also – because it doesn't happen at all?- Oh, my God!]] And I say, of course, that it also applies to the social partners where they are responsible, for example in the field of social security: Reform work is indivisible as a goal for the entire Republic of Austria. And with these measures, with the mix of the balanced budget, the investment in the future, the reforms, we create the margin to relieve citizens of taxes, ladies and gentlemen. In the second legislative period, a very clear objective has been set: clear and comprehensive discharge of taxpayers and businesses with the aim of increasing purchasing power and creating jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This makes me one of the most important goals of this federal government. Our goal is that we strive for full employment by the year 2010. That is an ambitious goal. But it is important that we give this clear signal to people in this country: Work, having work is probably the most important basis for human life. Therefore, this objective of full employment is primarily not an economic consideration, but rather a social policy consideration. The value of man is also defined by the value of the work that man has. That is why full employment is such a great concern to us, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This requires, of course, personal qualifications. Education, training is therefore not only the personal key to the future, but is the key for a country to go right and strong in the future. The personal key to education is at the same time the key to the future for our country. Therefore, together we will create the conditions in the field of education, science and research that we provide people with the best conditions so that the individual citizen, the individual citizen himself, can find out the best way for himself, in the sense of the freedom of choice we offer in the education system, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Differentiation in the education system responds to the different demands of citizens. Of course – yes, we are also stretching according to the ceiling of the potential – the question of reducing the maximum number of students is common goal and is beyond dispute. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Brosz: In all schools?]] We will gradually implement it because it is important for the quality of our education system, ladies and gentlemen. In addition to this question of education, training and qualification, investment is another essential prerequisite for full employment. I am not going first and foremost – and I am also referring to speaking, Professor Van der Bellen, because you rightly requested this – to the federal government and the local authorities, but I would first like to say that the prerequisite for growth and growth itself is the visible result of the innovative power of the workers and the willingness of entrepreneurs, especially in the small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thanks therefore to the workers and to the entrepreneurs! Of course, as a politician, this Federal Government has a high level of responsibility to support growth and strengthen the growth path. Investment is one of the key issues in this context. I would therefore also like to explain to you, ladies and gentlemen, that we will have a lot of money – the taxpayer's money – in our hands. In this legislative period from 2007 to 2010, we will provide a total of €800 million for research and development alone, cumulated – of course – cumulative, therefore I say yes: over the period. You can rely on my numbers, Professor Van der Bellen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr Sozialminister says something else!]] We invest in education in addition over the period € 575 million – cumulated! – we invest in the area of social security, ladies and gentlemen, in this legislative period totaling €1.2 billion – for example in the fight against poverty; this is a great common concern for us. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Oh so, the Social Minister has said the untruth!]] We are investing – what has been fixed as a temporary measure in the budget by 2006 – will be extended, namely €200 million per year in addition to the labour market – in addition, €800 million in the labour market, as our goal is to create full employment and reduce the unemployment rate in this country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We invest because this is also an important question of the future, in this period for universities – you have already heard this – about a billion in basic equipment and investment in infrastructure at universities. We have agreed that in these government negotiations, we will put aside 10 billion investment volumes for road and rail, so that these major areas of growth and the economy are also strengthened and are optimally available to citizens. The fact that we in the rural area collect every funding euro from Brussels and make national funds available for it is beyond dispute. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] By the way, I also say: There is not only the federal government, but also the federal states are involved in the commitment – you know the 60:40 division. The federal states are invited to carry out their obligations in this context. And – because it is addressed – we will invest a lot of money in a modern energy future. This question of energy future, ladies and gentlemen, is a life question for a future strong economy that is committed to the principle of sustainability. This is our mission, Professor Van der Bellen. And I already know: We also need time to make the right investment. But here too it is clear: Even there we don't start with zero! There is a very solid basis created in Austria, and this is good and creates jobs – we are well aware of that, Professor. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A task will be to involve the social partners – and this is what we have done together – in this reform process, in this growth process, in the innovation process on the path towards full employment offensively and actively. And I attach great importance to the fact that this is not a one-way road, but rather that we are seeking the best possible solution in the dialogue with the social partners and, therefore, the social partners – and I say this very openly – are involved in the common responsibility. - That's me, that's a big concern for us. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I spoke, ladies and gentlemen, on the issue of economic conditions, of the need to be aware that we are acting in the international environment. And that is why, for me and for us together in this Federal Government, this question of further internationalization, the further opening up, is an important concern. I have heard today in the debate, quite frankly, some intermediate tone, that internationalization, internationality and opening up would be something negative. – I tell you, the opposite is the case! Openness and internationality strengthen us when we realize that we need to put in place the right measures in Austria, that internationality and openness benefit us. – And that is our common goal, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We have benefited from it! Go into the companies that have crossed the border! You know that in the meantime every second euro in Austria will be earned in export. You know that from the opposition you criticized that every second job is actually secured by internationalization in Austria. That is why this Federal Government will naturally continue this path and will benefit from the scope of the internationalisation and opening-up – with the clear priority, of course, to have the benefits for Austria, for Austria's location and for Austria's employees. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! One of the location factors that will become particularly important in the future is the question of safety. As German chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer rightly said – and I emphasize this 100% –: Austria is one of the safest countries in the world. And we are therefore very grateful to the colleagues of the police and also to the German army who stand for this security every day with their person. Thank you, therefore, to the Members of the Executive and the Army. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This form of security, ladies and gentlemen, also depends very much on the way in which we live together. We can be proud that the co-existence of people in Austria is in principle characterised by tolerance, in principle by the values of democracy. And I think it is important that it is disputed that it is these values that we continue to develop our security concept. At the same time, however, this means that we must say with the same clarity: There, where our legal principles are challenged, zero tolerance applies. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] For example, if the issue of equality between men and women were undermined, there would be zero tolerance, ladies and gentlemen. Or if, for example, individual freedom is in question, there is zero tolerance. But even if the validity of the law – regardless of the social position or religious confession – would be questioned, there would be zero tolerance. This basis of our security policy is essential to us in the Federal Government and, and I would like to stress this very clearly, it means that citizens of Austria are a valuable asset. And citizenship, ladies and gentlemen, is linked to duties and contributions to the Community. Therefore, concrete conditions must be met for the achievement of citizenship. This includes, of course, mastering the German language, which by the way is also an integral and essential component of integration ability, and it also includes respect for the Austrian legal and value order. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] For me and for us, it is beyond dispute that integration of course takes precedence over a new move, which is the common basis of this federal government. Therefore, it is also clearly defined – and we acknowledge this – under which rules of play and under what conditions workers are welcome in Austria if we need them in Austria and therefore the Austrian labour market is not harmed. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] These conditions are clear, ladies and gentlemen, as well as the fact that immigration is a stop for irregular immigration; this too is clearly stated. The issue of asylum rights is to be strictly separated – as I share the assessment of the discussion. Of course it is clear: Those who are persecuted have the right to asylum with us. And the conditions are to be met that clarity exists as quickly as possible. We owe it to people, ladies and gentlemen, who choose this path. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The security of course also includes the defence of the state. The population that people in our country rightly expect from the federal army protection, and the soldiers expect us to have the best conditions to be able to implement their work – that will happen. This government agreement, ladies and gentlemen, clearly says: The commitment to neutrality is constitutional and constitutional. However, the obligations arising from neutrality are equally clearly contained in the Convention of Labour, and this is a matter of unmistakably the surveillance of airspace as part of the military defence of the country by itself. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] The issue of social justice and policy for families in this country is a major concern to us in this Federal Government. In the focus – and this despite all the developments that exist, you just think about the anonymity of the Internet – becomes increasingly clear: The personal relationship in the family is an essential basis for a human society. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are therefore particularly concerned about the family, and we have also set decisive impulses: The childcare allowance is made more flexible and thus also improves the freedom of choice. Parents – I emphasize: Parents! – have the option to choose between two child care models in the future, which is reasonable freedom of choice so that the best possible option can be chosen. And we have put aside the argument that we are taking additional money into our hands for multi-child families, because families with several children are truly not easy. Here we help. This is an important, central concern for us. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Does the family minister know? Even if she's flying to New York?]] The issue of social security is inseparably linked to the further development of the best health system, and, frankly, They have read it – it is also worth it for us that, with the increase in health insurance contributions, we have taken a step that is truly not easy, and I say this, neither of us. But we received the following message: The issue of health is so important to people in this country that they are willing to accept a slightly higher contribution. But we have made it equally clear that we expect social security funds to make their contribution to the same extent through efficiency and economy in the administration, so that we have both elements: where necessary, additional money, but savings where this is possible, without putting them at the expense and on the back of the patients. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The elderly people in our country, ladies and gentlemen, are well removed. Based on the pension reform, we can guarantee the elderly their pensions. We have already put an end to our common initiative, and we have already decided that, for example, in the field of minimum insurance for the compensation allowance rate from 1st century onwards. January 726 €. That's good. The older people in this country can rely that we will, of course, continue to fulfil our obligation in the future. For us, however, social policy is that instrument that helps where help is needed, and it promotes and demands where promotion and demand are useful; for example, to return to the working world. We consider the need-oriented minimum guarantee for the right model because it helps where help is needed but at the same time motivates. Yes, we will also be motivating, for example, through rules of visibility, so that people can find their way back into work, because that is the real objective of our social policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Apart from disputes, for this federal government, Europe is at the heart of our joint work. We are convinced Europeans. We have already, with strong voice, enforced Austrian interests in the European spirit in Brussels. So far, it will be so in the future. Even a small country can achieve much if the goal is beyond dispute and excellent ministers work in Brussels, for Austria and for Europe. This is our objective with a new Constitutional Treaty and with the perspective of enlargement of the European Union. Europe is one of this centrepiece! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We – not on the government bank, but we Austrians – can actually be proud of our country. It is a beautiful, very successful, a flowering, a diverse country. One of the reasons for this is that we live this Austrian life model every day: the economic capacity on which we build social justice and, of course, we are sustainable in the future. – This is our vision of a better Austria. I would therefore like to see as many people as possible actively accompany us along this path. And I'm appealing from this point of view – many are inside here or in front of the television screens, I hope – I'm appealing to the youth in this country: Make this way actively, it is your future, ladies and gentlemen we have to shape! In this sense, we give the invitation to all people: Join us on this path, step us where it is necessary, quite on the heel, if you think there might be some things going faster! We are ready to do so, we are open and we expect your positive cooperation. By the way: This House is also invited in its entirety for positive cooperation!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e7288	I would like to thank Mr Vice-Chancellor. As the next speaker, Mrs Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek is speaking. [[Abg. Großruck: The “President of the Opposition” is that!]] Your speaking time: 12 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e7320	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ministers! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Molterer has just finished his speech with an appeal to all people, especially young people, and I would like to take this up. I believe that this federal government is acting with a very, very heavy backpack, and this is particularly true of the young generation. And this heavy backpack is a lack of credibility. This concerns both parties, not only the SPÖ, which was very often criticized by the speakers before me regarding their election promises, but also the ÖVP. I can remind you of the following: There have been some criticisms in this country that were objective, I think, comprehensible to all people in that country. That was the abuse in education policy, which is still the lack of equality between women in society, which is the issue of climate protection, environmental protection policy – you have denied for months that there are problems here. Recognizing problems is the first step in tackling them and solving them are further steps. To this day, however, Mr. Vice-Chancellor Molterer, you only say: It was all right, there were no problems, we just continue this course indefinitely! This is, I think, not an offer to young people who have felt, as they have in recent months, in many areas become much more difficult and much more stressful. At SPÖ it is, I think, discussed, but one point I would like to add: I am now less concerned about the so-called invaders and about the broken election promises, but about a certain style of how to deal with a young generation. The study fees are – I know, it is obviously difficult to clarify that of the ÖVP – a social barrier for many people – more than 80 percent of students work to earn a living – and the abolition has not been enforced. But is it necessary to consider these young people in words like “Rabauken”, “Bumbling Students”/“Bumbling Students ” or “Millionary Children ”? I think that has lost absolutely nothing in this discussion. This testifies to the lack of respect for a generation that does not have easy work and does something like this. A study is also a performance! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For me, credibility also includes a certain respect and the style of dealing with young people. In the context of the electoral age reduction, we have discussed why these young people are so disinterested in politics. That's probably one of the reasons. – Lack of knowledge of problems, lack of self-reflection, this concerns the ÖVP, and now this style, which unfortunately was a very bad start for the new federal government. The result of the negotiations, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, is certainly not the greens. We take a lot of responsibility on ourselves, including some who may not belong to us, but you cannot attribute that to us. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would now like to deal with the programme a little bit in terms of content. There are some positive points. I've already cut one: The reduction in the electoral age is certainly positive. It is a positive step in democracy when more people are involved in decision-making. The young people of this age are also becoming less and less aware of the age pyramid. This is a step towards making their concerns more serious in the political debate. I also believe that you don't have to win a four-shoe tour to be optional, but I think it's a fundamental right of 16-year-olds who work, who are allowed to marry, to pay the taxes that are fully integrated into society. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Incontrovertible is also the easy flexibilization of child benefit something positive. However, this will be a drop on the hot stone. We would have needed radical reform in this area. There are a few positive approaches to the goals, and there are a lot of lip confessions, but I am already at the heart of the criticism: This is a coalition agreement of lip confessions. In the election campaign, we have dealt very intensively with what it needs in the future – I think that is still valid. In the next four years, investment needs mainly – and no further savings. The caputt saving course especially in education must be terminated! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What you're doing here is: You have a big project in the future, that is the tax reform 2010 which nobody knows yet what it will look like. Mr Matznetter! You have not only criticized the last tax reform, you have scourged it. Now we have a tax reform 2010 for which is saved, for which is invested in education, in the area of income justice, in many areas not or very little, and then a blue box, where we do not know, what is actually going to happen to discharge, to “re-taxation”. I think that's the wrong way. I think the Austrians would have understood otherwise. Now is the time for investment, for future investment, and your program is essentially one that means future stop. Stop the future! Education is, I believe, the saddest point. It is one of the most important, central areas recognised by all political parties as problem areas. You can't deny that. You can't move at €35 million this year. You can't move with 160 million € next year, but you have to take a lot more into your hands. Only the rate for the Eurofighters, which has now been paid, was over €200 million. This year it is another €200 million; a total of €400 million, which is as much as the total investment in this legislative period in the field of education. And then you say here that's the big educational reform, that's the great vision of the future, the great reform of the future?- Oh, my God! – That is not enough, it cannot be denied! If you take a single example where you can make it visible to the students, then this is the maximum number of students. It is mainly responsible for the quality of education. AHS classes with 36, 37 students do not want anyone in Austria. And if you now write on the one hand to the government agreement that this is a guideline, on the other hand, but do not provide a budget to actually expand it, that is not correct. The budget is sufficient for compulsory schools. In the AHS, HTLs, HAKs, there will continue to be 36, 37 students in the classes. We don't want that, and I don't think anyone in Austria wants it either. We want quality of education! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A guide is something non-binding. Why was it not possible to write in that this is the maximum limit? There is no school class in Austria in which the quality of teaching has to suffer because there are more than 25 students in the class. Why was it not possible to write that? – But this is a symptomatic example of many areas in this government agreement: Declarations of intent, lip recognition on the one hand, but no financing opportunity on the other side through this restrictive budget course, savings rate where I have to say, under the strict line, the caputt saving is unfortunately continuing. Hannes Androsch was right. In the field of education, I think this is the biggest failure, which is just a drop on the hot stone and will unfortunately remain ineffective. In the social field: It was very much about social warmth, more social warmth speaking. I believe that these are also key areas where social democracy can bring a lot into a government – health, social, education. But also here: The so-called minimum guarantee is a lip commitment for the future. There is no agreement from the countries that will finance this, and it will be postponed to the next financial compensation, which will enter into force in 2009; then we will soon be in 2010, at the end of the legislative period. But it is now to help in Austria. We now have acute cases regarding poverty problems, in these days, in the coming weeks and months – not 2009! So: If you want to help, please help now – that is urgent and acute – and effective, not sometime in the future! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Environmental and energy policy has already been the subject. Alfred Gusenbauer meant that there is a new approach to the distribution of resources. There's been a lot of criticism: The important areas of state, as they have been in the past, are mainly the ÖVP, the others at the SPÖ. Alfred Gusenbauer meant that these are the future resorts. If this is really a way of thinking and this is really the future resorts – I am convinced of some of them too – then it is a pity that environmental protection and energy policy do not belong to it. This is obviously a place of the past. You can talk about it right now, as in the past. Minister for the Environment and Agriculture! You might as well speak to Mr Fischler again. Franz Fischler was with us and has made lobbying for the eco electricity law that you have broken down, one of the best and most effective instruments in climate protection that you have smashed together with the SPÖ. – That doesn't happen anymore, that's deleted. Kyoto as a goal – well, but as you want to achieve it, is a complete mystery. That was also a mystery in the last legislative period, and that is why we have missed this goal so capitally. We will also miss out on the Kyoto target if you do not dramatically improve this government programme, with concrete measures, with a little more funding. Klubobmann Schüssel has said that 100 000 households are being converted into renewable energy sources in their energy supply. – Mr Klubobmann! 500,000 households were announced in your election programme! We have a million households dependent on oil. You know the curves in price increases as far as the oil is concerned. 100 000 households are nothing at all! Why not 500 000? Who gave you a deal? The environmental group was done very quickly. Erich Haider obviously achieved all the goals relatively quickly. But where has this been lost, a little more ambitious objective in the field of environmental protection? This is also about social justice, because having oil heating and not getting it substituted in the next few years – that is 900,000 households you want to leave there – means a huge financial burden. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There has also been much hope in the area of integration and women's policy. So I think as far as women's equality is concerned: If you write down such goals as increasing the employment rate of women to 65 percent – by the way today: 64.7 percent – then you should not be surprised if it is said that this is somewhat ambitious. This is a very difficult chapter, because a large number of measures are necessary. I personally wish Doris Buressehr good luck and enforcement in this position. With the ministry she now has, where she has exactly €5 million at her disposal, and with this she is supposed to help the starving women's and girls' advisory services throughout Austria again, I see no chance at all of implementing a genuine equality policy. And when we're talking about equality, one last, very sad note: I have also always hoped that there will be a little more freedom for some groups with the next Federal Government. Unfortunately, equality, the termination of discrimination against gender partnerships is in no way anchored, and I think that is a measure that only brings something – some people, that is, more freedom – and that would have had no problem with your budget path at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Of course, we accept the offer that there will be a new relationship between government and opposition. However, you have to do that, too. say again –: There is nothing except a vague announcement that, subject to an agreement between all parties, there will be an extension of minority rights. And a very large project, the state and constitutional reform, the administrative reform, is now at a stage where I would have made a black and blue-orange federal government from an earlier point of view, a much sharper criticism, namely the Federal Chancellor in a working group where the opposition is no longer present. And that's not fair. This is about rules of play for all – and not only about the federal government, the federal government and the countries, but also about rules of the game for all, and that is why involvement would be the only commandment of fairness. This is not in the Coalition Convention, like many other things. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e7522	The next speaker is Mrs Csörgits. Speech time: also 12 minutes. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e7544	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! I believe that the look on the government bank is a good look for a number of reasons: First of all, it is a good mixture of a dynamic team of experienced and new personalities under the direction of a Social Democratic Chancellor Alfred Gusenbauer. [[Abg. Scheibner: I didn’t know that!]] And what makes me particularly happy: There are very many dynamic, great women in this federal government who will have a lasting impact on this policy. I am very, very proud of that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This makes sure that politics, both in political action and in political considerations, is brought back more focus in Austria. And, Mr Westenthaler, it is also a good look because you are no longer in the Federal Government with your BZÖ, which has held government responsibility for a period of time without taking a democratic election at that time – and that is good, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am pleased, for several reasons, that this government agreement has come about, because I believe it contains very important priorities in very crucial areas: social policy, labour market and employment policy, health policy, poverty reduction; and, in particular, there will again be an independent, advanced women's policy in this country. And that is good, and that will shape our policy in the future! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At the very beginning, however, I would also like to say that I expected more there or there: if, for example, I was thinking about the area of heavy workers and heavy workers; I would undoubtedly also like to have a better assessment of child care periods at the pension. But first of all, I'm quite clear here: If two negotiate, then a compromise will come out. I am also convinced – and I also know – that some of the colleagues from the ÖVP are doing something similar to me on other issues, because they simply had a different approach and a different reflection on different political priorities. Secondly, it must be pointed out quite clearly that we are in a budgetary situation which is not exactly rosy. And here I would like to point out, with all my appreciation, Mr Klubobmann Schüssel, that there is a difference in the situation now and on the other hand the situation in 1999: At that time, you, as Vice-Chancellor with your party, were also decisively responsible. On the other hand, what is now on the table is solely due to the politics of ÖVP, BZÖ and the liberals of the last seven years. - That's just for memory. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That is what you praise in your government program! – The “best pension reform”, you wrote!]] I believe that the measures to combat unemployment are particularly important. The fight against unemployment is like a red thread through the entire government agreement. All those people who have been able to talk to people who have become unemployed sometime know that this does not only mean a financial loss for people, but that unemployment brings much more difficulties, personal injury. And unfortunately, in the situation of recent years, we have also faced the fact that the number of unemployed people has increased very much. Unemployment means that people feel out of place that old people feel too old for work and too young for retirement, that women are only more qualified than women for work, and that those who strive to find a job, but unfortunately find none, are often excluded from society as “social-smaroters”. What is particularly noteworthy here: That we have been confronted with the fact that many young people have not found work in recent years, and that these young people in particular were not only in the situation of not getting a job, not being able to learn a job, but also lacking any future perspective. I am therefore very glad that, in particular, important central demands have been made in the Youth Employment/Teachers chapter. Firstly, there is a strengthening of teaching, and what is also very important and crucial is that it should be better permeability between apprenticeship training on the one hand and school or university education on the other. I think that is important, that I think is crucial, and I also think that it is very, very forward-looking! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What is still very important to me in this context – and I regret that Mr Westenthaler is not in the hall –: [[Abg. Scheibner: Say something for the termination protection!]] It is very, very important not to see the area of dismissal protection alone, Mr President. Of course, it is a legitimate criticism of youth organisations when there is a protection of termination and is introduced here. [[Abg. Scheibner: Not just!]] But – and I would like to highlight this quite clearly –: It is a very, very important second area, that it should be an educational and employment guarantee by the 18th century. Year of life has come – it has fallen under the table somewhere in your perception. Either young people have the opportunity to work as an apprentice in a farm, or also in a teaching workshop, or also the possibility of schooling. This must be seen in combination, and in my opinion this is the main focus of the education guarantee until the 8. Year of life. -18. Year of life. [[Call:18]] I'm sorry, I didn't want to introduce child labour here. As a trade unionist, that would not be taken off at all. What is also important to me and what has already been tailor-made – and this shows exactly what these demands in the field of economics and employment – is the fact that the social partners have played a key role here. At the request of the negotiating parties, the social partners have gained their experience here and I am very pleased that the main approaches of the social partners have been incorporated into the Government Convention. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I am also pleased, ladies and gentlemen, that this Federal Government has a clear commitment to the social partners, both in Austria and in the European Union. I think this is very important and crucial. We will be even more involved, and we want to be even more involved. With this, ladies and gentlemen, our country has always been well driven and will undoubtedly go well in the future. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] What is always very much in my heart as a trade unionist is the fight against undeclared work. In this regard, I can truly say with great joy that excellent approaches are included in the Government Agreement. It should also be noted that the fight against undeclared work, black entrepreneurship, has several good effects: First of all, it is the case that there is an increase in income from the tax and social security contributions and, of course, the stressed budgetary situation can be relaxed a little. The second is that there is a distortion of competition. That is to say, those employers – and I assume that this is the majority in Austria – who have always properly and decently applied for their employees are no longer discriminated against. I think that is important and crucial. And for me as a trade unionist, the benefits for the workers are quite, very important. I would like to stress this once again: It will be the case that, before a job has been started, workers will be registered with social security. There will be a general entrepreneurship liability for my colleagues working on construction. This too is a quantum leap, which is also crucial and important, and it is undoubtedly a good point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The importance of women's policy has already been addressed by my previous speakers. I think that is quite, very important and very crucial. Firstly, there is a clear commitment that the number of women in employment should be increased, and secondly, that the focus must be placed here in particular in the area of full employment. In this context, it has to be noted quite clearly that it has been so in recent times that part-time employment has increased very much and that women in particular often only had the opportunity to have either part-time employment or no employment at all. I therefore consider this point of approach to be particularly important and would like to break out only a part of it: In addition to the accompanying measures in family policy, such as the creation of more childcare facilities, as well as the flexibility of the childcare allowance, it will also be the case in future that if workers provide more services in a holding, they will feel these additional benefits in the form of an award in the wallet. This is a long-standing demand of the ÖGB women, it is a very massive measure in the field of combating working poor, and, in my view, it is still important and crucial – it is also a measure that contributes to the fact that there is no further dissection of full-time jobs. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Many things have also been achieved in the area of pensions. What I lack in the Government Agreement is that there is no general improvement for the heavy workers, but I am sure that the new Minister for Social Affairs will also present a programme here in the sense of the workers. In any case, I will make my contribution to achieving a fair and good solution here. I conclude by saying, ladies and gentlemen, It is a government programme that carries a social, a social-democratic manuscript. I am pleased that it has been done together with the colleagues of the ÖVP. I am looking forward to the implementation of this government programme, because this programme will once again allow us to make policy for all – for women, for workers, for poorers, for young people. Together we want to put people at the centre of political thinking and action – together for Austria! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e7683	The next speaker is Mrs Rosenkranz, also with a speaking time of 12 minutes. – Madam honourable Member, I will, however, interrupt you at 1 p.m. and show you half a minute before the bell sign shows that you have half a minute left. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e7705	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV screens! Remember? There has been a Social Democratic poster in the election campaign, which has caused some confusion. It wasn't quite clear what that meant. – That's clear now. You were very forward looking, you have already referred to the government programme. In fact, at the time you put on a poster: “Austria has earned itself better”. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This government programme does not have the slightest approach to recognize any misdevelopments, let alone correct them. It has no focus at all, and therefore one cannot really determine a will to political design either. Even if you look at the seat order here on the government bank, which of course also represents the political weight of the resorts, in addition to chancellors and vice chancellors the black ministers, you can certainly accept – but it is true! – that it just goes on as it has been. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Lap, Mag. Trunk and Parnigoni]] [[Abg. May. Trunk: Sure not!]] If I take out a single chapter now, this is absolutely confirmed. On the subject of immigration/integration is the government programme: “Europe is experiencing a fundamental demographic change with profound economic and social consequences.” “Migration” continues, “is a global challenge.” What does that mean? What's behind these words? – Behind that, it is understandable that we have had so few children for four decades now that not nearly one generation will replace the next. – Not “a few children”, but far too few children for the survival of the country and social security! [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Ursula Haubner.]] On the other hand, the fact that at the same time – hardly surprisingly – an uncontrolled immigration takes place under various titles – one of them is asylum, for example, which is hidden, which has never been openly discussed or also decided upon. So it is: On the one hand, too few children for decades, on the other, has been particularly strong for decades and a half – under your government, Mr. Klubobmann Schüssel, 300,000 people have come into the country; and, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, do you know how many citizenships you have granted in your time of government?; there were 140 000 – a massive migration took place, also to Austria. If you look at the chapters of integration and family, you can be sure that this remains the case. There's nothing inside that would somehow create a way to change the two things. [[Abg. May. Worm: Flexible...!]] We see here the positions completely contrary to you! We want to stop immigration, and we want to strengthen Austria's families in such a way that there is again a number of children in which the generations are replaced. That's our goal! We consider this to be feasible, we consider it necessary for Austria to have a future, because “Austria’s future” means the future of the Austrians – and for us this is the core task that we have put at the heart of our policy. What's the situation? – In Austria, we now have a share of 13 percent of people who are not born in the country, in the residential population. That's 1.3 million people. In some agglomerations, as in Vienna, it is 18 percent. However, these figures do not reflect the real salary in its full focus, because the figures are young and the Austrians are rather older. Parallel companies have emerged. For example, if you remember the Schnitzel ban and the Nikolo ban in Vienna, you can still smile retrospectively, but parallel societies have developed, which are partly counterparts. Are you really convinced, Mr Vice-Chancellor, that we have zero tolerance where our basic social values are affected? Are you really convinced that we are sufficiently clear and that gender equality is an indispensable basis for living together in European countries? - I don't think so. On the contrary! By the way, you also write it into the government programme: “Integration is an overall social task that requires efforts and efforts both from immigrants and from the host society.” We don't want to! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] – If someone comes here, we want him to conform to our ideas. He's coming to our country! If you do not want to take our warnings seriously and do not want to respond to us, please look around in Europe a little bit and listen to what the immigrants of the first hour, especially female immigrants, have to say about this: They warn against the blindness and the cowardice of the indigenous European population because they know who is moving here and what habits of life and what completely contrary to European habits of life can develop here.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e7795	I thank the honourable Member. Ladies and gentlemen, in the sense of the joint decision, I am interrupting the sitting until 1/15 p.m. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e7831	I'll start the interrupted session again. Mrs Rosenkranz. She has interrupted her speech and now continues her speech. Your remaining speaking time is 6 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e7858	Madam President. High house! I am still standing by the fact that we in Austria have had massive immigration in recent years and decades, that it is also not to be seen that this will be different – against the will of a large part of the population – and that was the reason for the massive resistance of the party base against this kind of policy. By the way, we are now experiencing this to a sufficient extent, as it is, if a government team goes completely away from what it originally promised and presented as a political goal. No one can deny that immigration has massive consequences. This is not so natural in the villas on the outskirts and in the old building apartments in the city center, Professor Van der Bellen, where your voters are preferred. There immigration has not yet so far-reaching and misguided consequences – however, where those who live with low wages around the workplace, in order to compete with new people who work under ever cheaper conditions, and where those who are not able to send their children to private school, and where old people live with low income or low pension, and who, by the way, do not want to move away from their seats because of their attachment, but where they have long since become strangers in their own home, and where they have long since – and this also exists – fallen out of all social networks. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: ==References== District is a large proportion of foreigners!]] It is quite significant, Mrs Csörgits, that you are always fleeing into incomprehensible expressions when, so to speak, you have to act as representatives of the workers, as a social party. Working Poor – how can that be? – It was socially democratic decades in which this happened. “Working Poor”, that is, work without being able to actually earn his livelihood. This has happened in the time period when you have appointed the Minister of Social Affairs, in which you have taken over the Ministry of Labour. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Csörgits.]] Another term – and you’re afraid to discuss it in Austria at all – is “Prekariat”. There is recently a precariat in Austria. They used to say underlayers. Also a “good” development: a precariate. Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy – I will tell you again and again, we will not let it go – you have to decide: Immigration or the perception of the rights of the worker and of the worker! Both are not possible at the same time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Austria is a safe country, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, but it depends on where. There are now districts in Vienna, where the night, especially as a woman, should not be used to caring. [[Abg. Riepl: In what district?]] Or would you guess your daughters alone in the 15th century? District to walk along the Mariahilfer street? I wouldn't be able to answer that. Ask the people who have to drive the Badner Bahn back and forth late in the evening. Ask the people! We note that crime has increased dramatically – by 100 000 cases in your time of government to over 600 000! [[towards ÖVP]] The education rate has fallen massively from over 50 percent to 39 percent. We believe that this increased crime has now greatly shaken the security of the population, and – in relation to the former Minister of the Interior – we are not afraid to say it either: It is mainly an imported crime! Not because foreigners are criminal, but rather the laisser-fair we have developed here, directly attracting criminals from abroad – this is what your own ministry writes in the security report. Why do so many Chechen criminals come to Austria? Because the liberal asylum legislation makes it so easy for them, the 2005 Security Report, which you have probably read, states. We will not tire out to present: If you want to fix the labour market, if you want to restore security, you will have to stop immigration! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the topic of family. – It is also impossible to see that you recognize the seriousness of the situation even more closely; just as you have not listened to the warnings for decades, especially when you are a social state and must be interested in the payment process, you must have a balanced birth rate. You've ignored that for decades, and now that you can't ignore it anymore, it's your tactics to play down and suggest wrong ways. Listen to those who tell you: One cannot compensate for the lack of children with immigration! There is no serious scientist who makes himself ridiculous about claiming that too. The point is: We will not come around our own children, and therefore it will be very urgent to make a paradigm change, in two ways: On the one hand, the material position of the family needs to be greatly improved. It is just as Herwig Birg says that in our society, the one who has no children benefits in our society, even by means of the old age pension scheme alone. And as long as you have these conditions, you can assume that people are oriented to them. A number of incentives are to be seen that make it seem advisable to give up children – in material terms alone. We therefore propose once again to bind a large family package. The costs for children must first be taken into account in tax law and the raising of children may be included in the provision of pensions – because it is the basis for pension provision as a whole! – do not become the individual disadvantage of those who do so. But this is so: the more children the less the pension! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the other hand, of course...
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e7938	Madam President, I am sorry, but due to the interruption, the lamb has not worked. You only have one final sentence. I'm sorry, but I'm asking you to put the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e7953	But it's going to be long now, because I really can't do that now. On the other hand, I am very skeptical, Mrs. Federal Minister Kdolsky, when I read that you said as an interview partner in the book “Childrenless, Well?” – by the way, one of the most stupid books I’ve ever read – that you are a “passive aunt” – because you can “give the children back at some point, ” because with longer contact your nervous system could be overturned. It goes on like this: “I’m a great childfriend, but I stand by the fact that I can have a critical potential if children intervene in my life in an unpleasant way. If I want to enjoy an evening in a Nobellokal if I sit on the plane to New York, a screaming child can miss me a lot.” – Citing. Ladies and gentlemen! In contrast, for us children are the highest good, and we consider it essential for Austria's future to improve children and families.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e7990	The next item is the report by Mr Neugebauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8011	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! My dear colleagues! In his presentation of the government programme, Dr. Gusenbauer has shaped the sentence: “We live in a good and also in a relatively rich country.” It is therefore fair and only logical that this government programme should be built on the success course of recent years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This broad majority of parliamentarians, which the Federal Government can rely on in the future, offers the opportunity to place marks on the basis of the Austrian Convention, which may not have been possible in other constellations so far. The Federal Government has set the experts a very ambitious time target, namely by the end of 2007. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to More democratic control, a election from 16, the election of letters, at least an e-voting already to carry out constitutional adjustments, but also what is important – that is, a permanent process – to carry out an administrative reform at all levels of the local authorities. I am very glad that a new division of tasks between the Federal Government and the Länder is envisaged and that all levels, Europe, the Federal Republic of Germany, countries, communities, are being explored for parallels, in order to be able to easily achieve savings. To strengthen the autonomy of the countries and communities is in line with the principle we like to call subsidiarity. – All of this against the background of a functioning public services in the Federal Republic of Germany, countries and municipalities which are obliged to the common good. We will seek a legal form so that the employees of the public services can carry out their work in a pressure-resistant way, and we also want to re-distribut the salary processes, because the public service can also not give up on qualified young people. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP and of Mr SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I particularly welcome the fact that the Federal Government has increased the importance of the social partners in its programme. The main parts of this paper have been prepared by the social partners. In particular, questions arising from demographics, how to deal with care, in retirement, in health and education, are not yet known to many people in our country. Let's make it clear that just under three lifetimes ago, about 200 years ago, the average life expectancy was 35 years old and that a 50-year-old still has this life expectancy! – This is a challenge for politics, which can only be achieved through a common effort. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The chapter on the labour market and the working world is almost entirely from the social partners who have defined the objectives and measures very precisely: for older workers, for young people, the question of continuing training, for active labour market policies to improve labour market services, not only in mediation, but also in support and ultimately also in the fight against undeclared work, in order to ensure fair competition in the social market economy. Professor Van der Bellen, according to his speech today, misses measures – I recommend him to study the chapter on growth and economic policy; there are 23 measures, from investment in infrastructure to employee participation, which is a very important concern for us workers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] High employment rates now and declining unemployment justify a great deal of money in this area. Let me take a look at my profession, the educational chapter that I was allowed to negotiate with the very worthy Mrs Ex-Federal Minister Elisabeth Gehrer. Those who have been involved in debates and topics in education policy for many decades will find that at first everything is always about structural and system debates. – Ladies and gentlemen, you can pursue this with passion, but this is a subject that creates suffering. In reality, it is about focusing on the inner conditions and conditions: Development of the school partnership, quality assurance, pedagogisation and not the obligation of kindergartens and ultimately smaller classes of schools, where the focus on individual students is more targeted than before. Different societies need a differentiated school system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If I have known the ladies and gentlemen on the government bank for many years personally and also their activities, others through the published biographies, I may say: All who sit here have always had something to do with politics, for example as a minister, as a parliamentarian, as a member of the country, or in state governments, or in areas where we have worked hard on politics. I therefore assume that a hundred-day period of time, normally given, will not be necessary for the ladies and gentlemen of this Federal Government. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to say positively that, and this has been done by Dr. Gusenbauer, a number of changes have been made in dealing with each other from the beginning of the negotiations to the present day. That reminded me of the year 2000. The transfer of the resorts this time was not an item in the headlines – unlike in 2000 – and I can congratulate very, very cordially. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to point out that the Federal Government has set itself the goal of emphasizing everything that is relevant to the EU. I have consciously lit the emblem of the European Union today, because it is important to me in all areas of life to pursue the goal – the only one that really counts – of presenting this Union as the greatest peace work ever in the history of Europe. I wish everyone much strength to do so accordingly. This brought me to Robert Schuman, who once said that the most dangerous in politics are those people with strong imagination and weak nerves. – You can't put this to the ladies and gentlemen here. I wish you all a strong realism, good creativity and a good condition. Finally, as one who was allowed to negotiate, I would like to point out that there are many things that are not contained in this coalition paper, which would also be worth discussing. Mr Bundeskanzler, Mr Vice-Chancellor, you can expect our support. Willi Molterer – and I would like to underline this – not only asked everyone to become familiar with these goals but also expressed the willingness to take the people along this path. As a parliamentarian, I would like to make use of this for myself, in the political debate, we want to strengthen the paths to the stated objective in this government programme, because: Where Austria insists, Austria must also be in it! - Good.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8122	The next item is the speech by Mr Scheibner. Your speaking time is 12 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8144	Madam President. Values Members of this Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Something is happening to me – perhaps not necessarily to me, but to the spectators in front of the television screens, who are watching the transmission of this debate – probably because of the few remaining here, especially in the social democracy: The euphoria is missing, the mood of departure. In the last seven years, we have heard – for seven years – what will happen – my dear colleague, your frustration that you have not become a minister of science, I understand, but you have to make it your own – when this unloved government of black and blue and then orange can finally be replaced, which major reforms you will make. [[Abg. Broukal: Sorry, of you only two thirds are here!]] We want to reverse the loss of pensions, and the health reform will finally be enforced. What else was it? Finally, investment is made in infrastructure, and, and, and. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] Mr Gaßner, where is the euphoria now? Now you have finally managed, you have a Federal Chancellor – and I am not so sure whether you really want him now, this Federal Chancellor, whether you are really so happy that you now have this Federal Chancellor and this government program and this great coalition. But here you are not alone, I think, because by now the majority – I have just received a survey value: more than 60 percent – the Austrians believe that this is a very bad start for the government of Gusenbauer – I cannot say Gusenbauer I, because that will be and will remain the government of Gusenbauer; there will be no cast builder II. I have already heard from representatives of the ÖVP, they receive condolences and persistences via SMS: Keep going, you're all sorry! – At the SPÖ, I heard, there is already a text message, Mr Gusenbauer should not give any additional hours. – Mr Bundeskanzler, this was really a derailment that you are taking a step with students who cannot afford the tuition fees. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Mr. Parnigoni, that a Federal Chancellor with 19 000 € monthly income says he gives at 6 € supplementary hours, that is really an increase of students! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There even your base via SMS, ladies and gentlemen from SPÖ, says he should not give any additional hours, but take a training in negotiation, so that the next time the negotiations may go out differently. Whoever has the saying in this Federal Government, we have seen it not only in the distribution of the department, but also today during the interpretations of the various representatives of this Federal Government. But one thing can be quite proud, ladies and gentlemen: that this federal government, and thus also social democracy, finally admits how good Austria has been for the past seven years, that we now have the best pension system in Europe due to the government measures during the years 2000 to 2007 – as you say in this government programme – that Austria is one of the safest countries in Europe, that we have a good education system, that we have a good safety system, that we have a good health system. Colleague Cap – he's back now – has spoken of a serious legacy that he now has to begin: This is the positive heritage that we hand over to you, and I hope that you will deal well with it in the sense of the Austrians. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What it means to clean up a sniper heap is that we saw in 2000; a sniper pile with record deficit, with a health system that has really gone to the limits of finance, with a proporation system, with a standstill, with depression in a federal government. We broke up and came to new shores. Let's see what you're doing! First, there is a record in the number of new members of the government. That, Mr Bundeskanzler, was also such an attempt of deception that you said for arithmetical reasons you would have to extend the Federal Government from 19 to 20 members. I should like to remind you that the last German government has taken office with 18 members of the government. [[Abg. Parnigoni: With 19!]] – Not at the age of 19, you too have already forgotten, Mr Parnigoni. ==References====External links== Member, has only been used when it came to preparing and implementing the EU Presidency of Austria – by the way, very professionally done, Mr State Secretary – and we started with 18 members of the government. [[Abg. Oillingers: And the Cabinet members, count them once!]] You have promised not to increase the number, you have said that the State Secretarys are unnecessary – I think so slowly, because they themselves do not know what they are responsible for – but now you have simply expanded the government by two ministers so that you can accommodate all your trustees. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You didn't need so much!]] Yes, Mr Parnigoni, have you read the government programme? I don't think so, because I'm telling you, the red falcons would present it, then you'd throw it back. There are so many common places in it: strengthen, increase, improve, evaluate, use work circles. So really, if that were a youth organization, it would be said that it lacks the prospects; but that's all you've done in this government. – Very little! You are very concrete only where it is about additional loads. By increasing the tax on mineral oils alone, you are burdening Austrians, especially the commuters – especially you, Mr Parnigoni, you have once been transport spokespersons, or are you still? – by €100 million more a year, ladies and gentlemen! With a stroke, you're very concrete! Or: Health charges. We have fought hard – at the time German Chancellor Schüssel knows that – we have fought extremely when it came to the health system... – Mr. Parnigoni, be not so nervous! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] I know you have a bad conscience, you also honor it, but now you see that you are bringing something forward in this government. We have worked hard and then agreed to finance and renovate the health system not through higher contributions, but towards a change of philosophy. We have said that we are not increasing contributions, but we are investing in prevention, in prevention, because there are opinions that you can save not only a few million euros, but also up to €2 billion a year of savings potential, if you simply prevent people from getting sick, and thus do not have to finance the disease. And administrative savings are not prohibited either, Mr Parnigoni. Tax reform. – Federal Chancellor Gusenbauer, that was You promise! You have said that at the beginning of the legislative period you will introduce a tax reduction. 500 € tax relief for everyone! What's now? You announce, maybe there's something in the end, but there's no details. What about the announcement from then Minister of Finance Grasser to abolish the inheritance tax? How does it look to reduce tax rates? How does it look to further promote the small and medium-sized economy in the tax field? - We don't read anything in this program. The tuition fees have already been mentioned. As for the care allowance, ladies and gentlemen, one of your big demands was: Increase the care allowance! . We have submitted applications for this. What's going on now? Once you'll valorize it. When we did that at the time, you criticized it very much. The mandatory pre-school year in the field of education and integration. – Yes, I give you the right to know the German language is one of the most important means of integration, especially for children. Where is this mandatory pre-school year for all children who do not have sufficient control of the German language? – You have always called for that! This is not the case in this government programme. There is much more to be done here, for example in terms of security policy. It is really funny that some of the times in this government programme the commitment to ever-increasing neutrality is taken on the one hand – apparently a little sugar for you, so that you do not have to admit that it has been you who have caused this situation, namely that accession to the European Union in 1999 or the subsequent draft change and full participation in the European security and defence policy are very strongly opposed to a serious ever-ending neutrality. And this very contradiction is now also reflected in this government programme. It is also interesting that an order for the Austrian federal army is held: The federal government is supposed to protect neutrality. – That’s interesting, it’s an army’s task to protect an instrument under international law. How does this work, Mr Darabos, if any member of the government, such as the foreign minister, agrees to an extension of European defence policy in Brussels? This is contained in the government programme: They want a European defence. That is, Austrian soldiers then defend Poland and Lithuania and other countries. I have nothing against it, but to put it in line with neutrality is interesting. Do you then use the federal army against such evil government members who violate neutrality? So you can't take this seriously yourself, what's in here. Mr. Minister of Defence or Minister of Civil Service, this is not against you personally, I say it again, but you are being abused here by your own party, which has needed a signal to prove that it does everything to order this supposedly so bad and expensive Eurofighter. – I really respect someone who says, for reasons of conscience, I cannot provide the service with the weapon to the Austrian federal army; no question at all! And I'm not saying that someone must have been serving the ground in order to be Minister of Defense or to have any role in security policy, but if someone explains – once again: I have respect, if someone cannot agree with his conscience – that he cannot apply military service for conscience reasons and that he cannot use force of arms against other people and that would therefore be in a state of conscience here, it is already problematic if the same minister becomes a minister of defence and has to give orders of action! You once said in the “time in picture 2” – that was also a little slipper –: You yourself wouldn't have to take the gun in your hand. – Yes, but what does that mean, Minister of Defence, Mr. Civil Service Minister? They will face thousands of recruits who speak the following vow formula: I promise to protect and defend my country, the Republic of Austria, and its people with the weapon! – They will stand before you, who will have to perform this promise before you – and you will signal that you cannot agree to this service with your conscience. Mr. Minister of Defence! You will probably admit that this is a contradiction in itself. In this sense, we also see the power of the federal army at risk, and we therefore demand a clear commitment from you! And I'll tell you: On the level of the matter, we will work with you and also with all other members of the government as far as possible, but here we need the certainty that you are also aware of the constitutional agendas. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, this is probably the minimum you can do for the soldiers of the Austrian federal army who, with their lives for our security and, if necessary, also guarantee with the weapon in hand. And a minister who says that for reasons of conscience he rejects this task is difficult to digest.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8279	The motion for a resolution has been tabled. The first part alone would not be possible, but in combination with the second sentence the application is allowed. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8359	Ms. Federal Minister for Foreign and European Affairs, Dr. Plassnik. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8380	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Since yesterday, there has been a common currency on both sides of the Karawanken. I was yesterday on behalf of the Federal Government for Austria in Slovenia and took part in a ceremony there. I must say that I am proud of our partner, our neighbor Slovenia, because behind this introduction there is a challenging path that Slovenia has managed in a record time. ==References====External links== The anniversary of the recognition of Slovenia's state sovereignty by Austria and the European Union. [[Abg. Oillinger: And what about minority rights? With the town boards?]] Ladies and gentlemen, a day when we will feel the power of this European integration! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am speaking to the young friends who are taking part in the presentation of this government program here at the gallery. On page 158 of the government program you will find the clue to work out the iron curtain scientifically. – I admit, it was an inspiration that came from me, and I think it’s a privilege to live in a Europe where we will present the overcoming of the Iron Curtain in a museum. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Therefore, the work of reuniting Europe, the active participation of the peace project Europe in our generation – that is a key concern of this federal government. This is what neighbourhood policy looks like, and it is foreign policy. I'll go to Serbia tomorrow. ==References====External links== January elections. We want and we will support Serbia on its European path. We will not make any cuts in terms of the European Union's requirements here, but I am absolutely sure that one day, ladies and gentlemen, one day – one day not too far away – Serbia will be like Slovenia in the European Union and will come to the euro zone. And we'll work for that day. [[It is a pleasure with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The Balkans will therefore continue to be a focus of Austrian European and foreign policy. Here it is necessary to make this perspective of accession credible. One word on Turkey: We have noted in this government programme that we are giving ourselves the objective of a gradual approach, initially with the aim of a tailored Turkish-European Community. And we also noted that there would be a referendum if this negotiation process, which will be a longer one, were to achieve a goal of accession. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The basic philosophy in the European and foreign policy part of this government agreement is to understand Europe as an opportunity. And I am convinced that if SPÖ and ÖVP work together on this presentation, on this consciousness, the acceptance of the European integration work will also increase among Austrians. We want to be actively and fully involved. We will participate in all the policies of the European Union, and we will help to ensure that Europe remains a continent of confidence that Europe is not driven by its fears. The European life model with all its components, with its distinct social component, but also with the components sustainability, diversity and cultural diversity, we will preserve it – we will develop it further. And we'll do it together: It will be a teamwork on how foreign policy and European policy as a whole is teamwork. We will work on the Constitution, which is now supporting the German Presidency. We need clear rules. We cannot go to the elections to the European Parliament 2009 without having any clarity about these rules. However, the European Union will also be strengthened by us as a global partner, and I say from this point of view from the new Secretary-General of the United Nations, who knows Austria well, Ban Ki-moon: Mr Secretary-General! They can continue to count on Austria to be a reliable, committed, co-shape partner of the United Nations. [[It is a pleasure with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The world community faces major challenges. A regional focus of this work for the world community, for the European Union and also for Austria will be the Middle East, because it is time, ladies and gentlemen, for this to be an impetus, and this impetus should go from the European Union. That's what we're working on. We have a lot of trust capital on both sides, now it is important to benefit from this trust capital and to make the conditions for us to come to a two-state solution. A word on foreign culture and development cooperation. Here we will pay particular attention to women. We have agreed in this government agreement that each individual project of Austrian development cooperation will be examined to ensure that it takes account of the interests and concerns of women accordingly. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We will continue to work closely with the economy, and we will also call this ministry a renewed development of consciousness: Ministry of European and international affairs. Austrian foreign policy and European policy will not be red, ladies and gentlemen, it will not be black, it will be red and red. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8454	Next, Mr. Federal Minister for Defence Mag. Darabos. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8485	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! First of all, thank you for your increased attention. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (on the banks of the SPÖ) Where? Where? Where is it, please?]] I want to start personally. I am proud to be the minister of an army over the next few years, knowing that in every situation it offers protection and assistance to the Austrian population. I have the highest respect for the work of the soldiers, from the generality to the basic military servants, and I will give my best and always stand loyally to the troops, and I am convinced that this is the same. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would also like to expressly thank you for the open reception which was given to me by the Federal Army during my introduction, and I also appreciate the high-ranking officers attending this meeting today. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Army is in the process of breaking up. The geopolitical situation has changed to a great extent over the last decades and is still in motion. With the enlargement of the European Union, the peace project Europe is far advanced, and Austria is exclusively surrounded by states that are friendly and friendly to us. This development has been taken into account by the Federal Reform Commission, which completed its work in 2004 with its proposals. I would like to thank all those who have contributed to it, at the head of Dr. Helmut Zilk, my predecessor Günther Platter and my friend advisor Toni Gaál. [[In the case of the SPÖ and the ÖVP representatives, as well as the approval of the Agg. Scheibner.]] The concept phase for the German army 2010 is thus complete, and it is one of my main tasks to live up to this project and build on the proposals. A further focus of defence policy will be on international activities in the coming years. The Austrian Federal Army is highly respected worldwide for its commitment to disaster relief and peacekeeping. But not only here it is necessary to continue to live up to this reputation, I would also like to make Austria even more attractive as a location of international organisations. A very important factor in this context is our commitment to constant neutrality. It has not only been a guarantee of peace and security in Austria for decades, but also an excellent basis for our international peace efforts. That is why I am glad that I was able to work out a programme with my colleague, Mr Platter, in which neutrality is of particular importance. I think this explicit emphasis is essential and important, because this neutrality is the key to the development of a peace policy that is far beyond the borders of Austria. To preserve and strengthen them means to secure peace. You know, I have been commissioned by the Federal Chancellor to seek alternative solutions for Eurofighter procurement. This, too, is a task which I will fulfil in close consultation with Parliament and, above all, with the current committee of inquiry. This is a question in which I know the majority of Austrians behind me. SPÖ and ÖVP have come to know themselves in this coalition agreement on airspace security; it has already been said today. I believe that there can be cheaper solutions that ensure the same degree of security in Austria. I will try to find an optimal solution. The Austrians can rely on this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] An important measure of my first days in the term of office as Minister will be a measure to attract the military service. You know that in the Government Convention we have agreed to set the reduction of military service to six months by law. [[Abg. Scheibner: This has already been implemented, Minister! That's true! Read the law!]] So far, it has been the Minister's discretion to shorten the service to this duration. [[Abg. Scheibner: With 1.1.2008 this is in force!]] So far, according to the Minister's instructions, it was possible to shorten the military service. We will enforce a legal reduction in the duration of the military service to six months. This will be one of my first official acts. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: An idealess more on the government bank!]] In addition to all these areas which I have mentioned, there are two areas which cannot be thought away in the Federal Government's self-understanding: first, disaster protection and disaster aid. What has been done here in recent years, under most adverse circumstances, is priceless and valuable. The second point is the use of the German army at the border. The German army has developed great respect and recognition in the population over the past one and a half decades through its assistance efforts. I myself, who I live in a border region, have always appreciated this commitment. Until the final achievement of the Schengen maturity of our neighbouring countries, there will be no change in this task. On the contrary: It will remain fully preserved until 2008. And after that I will try, in cooperation with the Minister of the Interior, to develop concepts that ensure the country's security in general and the border regions in particular. Coming to a conclusion: I am firmly convinced that defence and peace policy, as it is unfortunately happening today and there, is not suitable for changing party policies. I am not going to do so, and I can call on all the representatives of this House to do the same. I will work transparently and seek the conversation and cooperation with all parties – this is important to me in the interest of the country – and I will address my tasks in the sense of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8597	The next item is the speech by Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8618	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! What is missing somewhere today – the word “melancholy” has already appeared – is already something like a mood of departure and joy. Somehow sad is the mood, and I wonder if you can't analyze it very briefly, what's behind it. Vice chancellor Molterer meant that the government will have the Elk test. So I don't think the elk test is a good test, because first of all, a vice chancellor doesn't belong to the couple's family, you'll give it to me. Secondly, no Mercedes plays a role here, but study fees, migrants, unemployment and deaths in Hospizen. They'll be the test for you, whether the government program is good, right and feasible. I also admit without a doubt – and I do not enjoy saying – that there may be more disasters in the world and in Austria than the study fees, that at the university and in research there are many construction sites that are equally important. Nevertheless, study fees have an educational infernal signal, I think, a counterproductive signal. Why? – Compared with other countries, Austria needs more students, no less! We see that individual... Mrs. Brinek! Let me talk! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] I know at least as well as you do, you can believe me. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are a number of professional groups in Austria that are not EU-compatible and internationally comparable. I'm counting vocations with a huge proportion of women: the entire diploma care profession, nurses, nurses, medical and technical services, and not least the compulsory school teachers who are not trained at EU level. It is even funny that the educational universities now belong to the Ministry of Education – and for themselves, because they are not universities, but purely labels. But I'm not unkind, because I might find it better off than in the science department. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You have no idea, Professor!]] But: How did you deal with tuition fees when we need a hundred thousand more students, when you signal students, the universities fear you, they break in on you, they don't have a place for you, they're being overburdened, they have to create access rules that are embarrassing themselves? One creates exams, whose reliability is more than questionable, limited places of study and leaves people standing at the door. What hope does this give to the youth? What confidence does this give to the youth? How do the parents of these young people think? – This is not the last thing Your merit, but your guilt! If you think you can make incentives with tuition fees so that more students come, I have to say that no one who has half his nerve cells in his head can understand it. If families have children – three in the number, two in the number – who study, this is a sum per year that really goes to the middle class, because study is not free. That's all dispassionate, which is claimed here. Studying also means giving up on income for years, depending on the parents, being dependent on the need to earn a living by the way and thus abandoning the contribution years of social security. No academics in comes to these 45 years of contributions. What's so great about that? Or: Do you know, Mr. Bundeskanzler – you already know – that in the end almost 80 percent of students work? If you want to be done during the regular study period, this is at least a 40-hour week of lectures, seminars and so on. And if you still say – and I consider this to be benevolent, extremely unhappy – that students, not only have to do hospice work, then this is a serious disease and contempt of seriously ill and life-threatening sick people. Everyone, I suppose, on the government bank, if he is sick, will not be satisfied under a hospital board, an ordination at the AKH. Dieing old sick people should then be sent to visit students – this also disavows the social professions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I believe that your former party comrade Blaha does not live with 200 € grant as a scholarship. Whether this is a social hammock is another question. Such a flattering handling destroys hope. Hope is to destroy the last thing a government wants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8678	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Deputies. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8699	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a few comments, which can be made in five minutes, on the broad range of issues to be addressed in the field of foreign policy, European policy and international policy. A word on security and defence policy too. First of all, on the subject of European policy. I think that what has been agreed in the Coalition Pact is a good basis for joint work, that there is also a good agreement here between the two government parties. I am also very glad that tones, some of which are still around the formation of your government, Mrs Plassnik, have sounded that you are glad that you have succeeded in making us Europeans again, because this has not been our problem. The problem that Austria has had in recent years was that you were in the government with a party that was very European hostile. And this should be said clearly: This point has now been overcome. It is now a Europe-oriented federal government in office – and that is a good thing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I therefore also think that the word of Klubobmann Schüssel can be addressed with the 'vote for Europe'. Now it sounds pure again and is not marked by European hostility or xenophobia abroad. That's important. I don't blame you for being xenophobic, but you need to know what sounds you had to sell. [[towards Federal Minister Dr. Plassnik]] We still remember if you forgot. The second point is that with some concern I have heard Mr Vice-Chancellor's speech, which has spoken of a new Constitutional Treaty. I don't know what he really meant. But he said “new Constitutional Treaty”. I believe that what it is all about is revitalizing the existing Constitutional Treaty and getting it on the way. It will then be a new treaty for Europe, but I think we should also try to find a common language. The other thing you have to say is: The task of the department, namely the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Europe or the Ministry of European and International Affairs, as you would like to call it – I could have lived on with the old term – is essentially to represent the Austrian interests in the world. And the prerequisite is to become clear about what these Austrian interests are. On one point today, the following has become very clear: Of course, it is our interest to give Austrian interest to those countries of the Western Balkans, which are still at the door of the European Union today, for future accession to the European Union to mature. This is a very important task in which you, of course, also have our support. I think that, even in other fields, such as the question of dealing with Turkey, the same could be developed. Overall, the Coalition Convention gives scope for further development of policy areas, including foreign policy, international and multilateral policy. And there are also essential accents that we fully sign. I am pleased that this coalition agreement also contains a slightly clearer commitment to development policy and to the extension of financial resources for this purpose. I think that is crucial because it was embarrassing how little money Austria has spent in recent years as one of the richest countries in this world for this purpose. I am glad that there are now clear, clear figures in the Coalition Pact and that we intend to redeem them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me perhaps say two more short words on security and defence policy. First of all, on the point raised by the opposition parties, to ensure that European defence policy, which is to be sought, could be contrary to the ever-increasing neutrality. I think this is a problem that you see more clearly than we do, simply because you cannot understand that the European Union is also us and that the defence of the European Union is something that could be seen exactly as the case of the defence of Austria, because if Austria has the case of defence, then the European Union has been attacked. [[Abg. Scheibner: But the EU is not neutral!]] We should perhaps try to add in our minds that what is currently the core of ever-ending neutrality, namely, no foreign troops in their own country and no involvement in wars – self-defense and police actions within the framework of a UN mandate – can be solved quite differently than you solve it. Last point. They considered it necessary to challenge the Minister of Defence for his civil service past. If I didn't know how I was questioned as an interior minister only because I used to be a probationist, I might have taken your accusation seriously. [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign.]] I mean, you should consider, it's useless that you say that. I was also an officer of the Federal Army, and you would not have accepted me as Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8790	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Stadler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8811	Mr President, you will not believe it if I tell you that even I would have accepted you as Minister of Defence. Believe me! That may surprise you, I fought hard with you, but I still have a heart for it when someone has at least served with the gun. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The difference is considerable if you look at the duties of a Minister of Defence. But let me begin by saying something about what is characteristic of this government programme. I still remember government programmes and government declarations from Viktor Klima. These were just too literary masterpieces, which he gave the best here at the time. I only had the suspicion today – the German Chancellor is not here now – that in his oral statement, which he read down, the same author was active; I think it was Mr. Kalina, who already wrote the contributions to Viktor Klima at the time and now also writes to Alfred Gusenbauer. One would have to write the subtitle below: If I don’t know anymore, I’ll have a working group! – And this government is setting up 40 working groups, ladies and gentlemen! At the time, Viktor Klima did not even represent such a thing of inconsistency. He has still tried to act at least as if he knew how it goes on. The plattites contained in this government programme are really still coming to Viktor Klima: If I don’t have any ideas anymore’, I’ll stop talking politics! Mrs Bundesminister Plassnik, on page 7, there it is said literally – I may quote –: “The aim is to guarantee the optimum enforcement of Austrian interests through the greatest possible coherence and efficiency.” What does that mean? What do you start with such a sentence? It's getting even more beautiful, it's gonna get involuntary comics. This is about the Danube. It means literally – I quote again – on page 7: “The potential of this river” – that is, foreign policy, not water management – “is not only a transport arteries, but also in the fields of culture, the environment, tourism, it is to be revived in a comprehensive way;” The flow of foreign policy, ladies and gentlemen! I live in the Danube, I think... [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] I heard the sentence was inspired by you, but you can't have invented it. Look, I once worked for the water industry in the Lower Austrian state government, but I couldn't have dreamed of such an elegant recovery rate at all, and not in foreign policy at all. The Federal Minister as Donauweiberl – I imagine this funny – who revives the river with culture, with the environment and with tourism! Ladies and gentlemen, this is involuntarily funny. - But that's the way it goes. Mrs Bundesminister, this is not the case. Your level! Tell me this isn't yours! There, where you could have been, in the Turkey question, nothing has come to your mind, you do not know so well: Are you a Donauweiberl now, or are you a Donaumanderl? Because you could have said clearly whether you are for accession or not for Turkey's accession to the EU. I say quite clearly to you: We liberals are against this accession! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] With 78 percent of Austrians we are against this accession; They did well to write this in a government program. And now, that's completely wrong at all – I quote from page 8 –: “The EU should only carry out those tasks which can really be done better in Brussels in the Community, as well as more involve national representatives (subsidiarity).” Professor, have you ever heard “subsidiarity” so misdefined? - Not me! [[in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen]] Subsidiarity, Mrs Federal Minister, is something quite different, namely the reverse: All that can be done better in the national field, or at least equally well, is to be left there and not in Brussels, as long as they do not prove that they can really make it better in common, ladies and gentlemen, High House! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You can already see that the wrong idea is present. However, I do not want to stay here with these boards of foreign policy at all, but I really want to come to a favorite topic. That's this occupation in the defence department, ladies and gentlemen. This is really involuntary funny. I know, Federal Minister Darabos, that you would have liked to become Minister of the Interior – but then you should have rejected the office. The fact that you have been ordered according to the Ene-mene-muh system – one, mene, muh, the Minister of the Interior is already occupied, so he will become Minister of Defense – can't really be true. We all see how unhappy you are with this place of business. But, of course, you see the accident literally in your face. Ladies and gentlemen! I also understand when you have promised grandma that you will eliminate the Eurofighter, and now you announce that you will talk to EADS and have not even – ORF interview with you – read the contract. – Yes, how do you even imagine how you want to negotiate with them? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Payment will be made!]] He already pays, but that, I think, has already begun his predecessor, but how he can negotiate the contract, where he has not even read it, is another question. If you had inquired with my colleague Herb, he at least knew about himself in the committee of inquiry, he at least read this contract. It seems to me that – this has nothing to do with his refusal of military service – at the time it was called “responsive refusal” – as if you were to order an anti-alcoholic as a brand-in manager. That's how your order, Minister Darabos, appears to me. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Someone said that's like turning an atheist into a pope. It's just missing that you order Peter Pilz to become the Air Force Chief. Then the round is finished. That must not be true! [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, High House! You will only have to prove, Federal Minister, that the federal army is really your concern, as you have claimed from the government bank. I only know from the past and from your political gesture that it is not. [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign again.]] A final sentence, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, because you look so sadly at the government bank: If we had blues a red heart, we would have to feel sorry for you. But we have pity for the voters you have betrayed, ladies and gentlemen, and not for you!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8903	The next item is Mrs Rauch-Kallat. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8924	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! High house! The new name of the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which will in future be called the Federal Ministry of European and Internal Affairs – the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs – underlines the important challenges and tasks of this department. [[Call the SPÖ:International affairs!]] However, foreign policy, the successful foreign policy of Austria with the peak of the EU Presidency in the first half of 2006, will continue in the future the path that has been taken so far, which was a good path, also in the two governments Schüsel. Mr President, although some decisions have not always been easy, they have always been taken together and a common path has been found, while at this time the second largest party, SPÖ, has run a foreign policy zigzag course, which was not always quite helpful, also internationally. This foreign policy lies with Ursula Plassnik in the hands of an experienced diplomat, who has already demonstrated in the government of Schüssel II that she is able to cope perfectly with national and international difficult situations. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Where? In the Danube? Where did she do that?]] Mr Stadler, even if possible, you have gone below your level. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Remember, Mrs. Plassnik in the EU was the only one who has stood on the issue of Turkey, which has moved an entire EU to rethink and has achieved that the EU can now go this way. [[Abg. May. Stadler: For or against?]] That was their merit, and that was certainly not easy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: She has begun negotiations with Turkey!]] Austria will continue to remain a strong voice in the EU, and Austria will, of course, continue to run its candidate for a seat in the UN Security Council in 2009/2010. This also applies to the objective of development policy, in particular to keep women's concerns in mind. The objectives of women's policy in recent years are also reflected in the women's chapter of this government programme: a further increase in women's employment from 62 to 65 percent. The EU average is currently 55 percent. The new Secretary of State Christine Marek will be particularly involved in this area. But also the compatibility of work and family, the promotion of women's careers in the economy, science, research, art, sports and politics, and much more, up to the protection of violence for women who feel threatened and are actually threatened, can be found again. The longing for an independent women's ministry – for there has also been one in the last six years – has only been fulfilled on a conditional basis. This ministry is now located in the Chancellor's Office. If I see the reports correctly, the personnel matters with Mrs Bures will also be, so she will also have a lot of other things to do. Nevertheless, despite all the struggles of recent years, which were mostly as false as unfair, I wish my successor a great deal of success in “Boring Hard Boards” for the benefit of women! I am, however, particularly pleased that a core competence of the Austrian People's Party has come back to the hands of an ÖVP minister with “Youth and Family”, and I am proud that the successful path of the two governments Schüssel I and II, which has brought Austria to the top of the countries with the highest family benefits, will continue. I am glad that it has succeeded in halting deterioration in childcare money, and I am also glad that the freedom of choice is maintained. Those who wish to take advantage of 36 months as before can do so; those who want to do it shorter, 18 months, get 800 € per month. With the valorization of pension contributions, the increase and valorization of the amount of earnings and additional support for multiple child families, we want to support those in their increased financial effort whose courage to the child does not end with the second child. But, Mrs Rosenkranz, let me say one thing: Respect for mothers and fathers with children, with many children – but I guard against discrimination against women and men without children, whether wanted or unwanted! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And if you quote from the book, Mrs Rosenkranz, then you should also know how tragic it can be to have no children. [[Abg. Strache: These were statements and quotations that are immense!]] [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign.]] Let me briefly say something about health. Also in this chapter, there will be a successful continuation of the major health reform of 2004. [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign again.]] Andrea Kdolsky has worked on this health reform and will continue this path. She's a proven expert, she's got the heart on the right, and she's a camper. She will need all of this in her new task, and I wish her all that, all the good!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e9058	The next item is the speech by Mr Bucher. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. I'm asking for time discipline. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e9080	Madam President. Dear Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I too have made the effort to analyze the government programme. I have mainly devoted myself to the chapter Economics, Finance and Budget and, of course, also asked myself: Where is the Great, where is the special, where is the New in this government programme? When you look at what is written here and what has been opened here in new visions and perspectives, you will find that the ÖVP has succeeded in pulling the SPÖ over the table. In an unprecedented way, the divorced Federal Chancellor succeeded in “cleaning off ” the SPÖ, probably on a traditional day, namely, “Hl. ==References== There is the traditional day where we let the Christian trees disappear in the boxes, and you used this time to clear the SPÖ like a Christian tree. [[Abg. Dr. Schussel: Light measurement we clear him off!]] [[Abg. Steibl: So I don’t let a Christian tree ‘ disappear ’!]] The SPÖ, that was probably the new thing, has thrown all its principles, all its principles, which it has represented here in the House for many years, overboard, just to do a human pleasure, namely to become the Chancellor of this Republic. [[OBJECTIVES]] .. I wonder if this Republic has earned it. I already admit that I am disappointed about the attitude of the ÖVP, because we have been sitting together in a tax reform committee for many weeks and months, Willi Molterer, Martin Bartenstein, my colleague, stupidly, and we have broken our heads over it, as the business location and financial centre of Austria should continue in the next few years. And I was very, very sorry – I say quite frankly, Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Schüssel – that KHG, Karl-Heinz Grasser, has left this Federal Government – not only because he has brought me into politics, but because he was a guarantee for the economy, for a positive development of the economy, for orderly finances in that country, and because he has demonstrated that one can reorganise a budget. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] This must first be done by this Federal Government! He has already demonstrated in the second year that he is able to reorganise a broken budget. And that's what I'm going to do now, including in this government programme. It's me! [[Abg. Oillinger: Don't tell fairy tales!]] Where are the courageous reforms? We agreed on this, but we said that we finally had to reform the tax system in Austria structurally, simplify it so that people in our country know what they are doing so that they can be able to complete their tax declaration themselves. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But that's what the grassman was negotiating!]] There is only a handful of experts in Austria who are familiar with income tax law. We have always put a lot of reforms in front of us. Or: I also lack the Federal Budget Act, which we have negotiated for many months in this House, together with the SPÖ, with Mr Matznetter, the current State Secretary Matznetter, who also insisted that there should be a simplified presentation of the budgets in public administration in the future, as we know from the economy. [[Abg. Parnigoni: We will come to it! Come on!]] So many things I miss. Instead, under the synonym Valorization, there are a number of hidden tax increases in this paper. I wonder, for example, if you increase the price of the vignette, for example, if you also increase the tax on mineral oil, if you know that in the middle of this year the car tax will also be increased, which means for the commuters in the rural area. What is social about it?, I ask the colleagues of the Social Democrats. What is social about spending more than 150 to 200 euros per year in the future to get to work? What's social about it? We have tried to implement the largest tax reform of the Second Republic in the last legislative period – 3 billion to discharge. [[Abg. Oil: Yes, yes, yes!]] Mr President, you are laughing, but 3 billion are going off in the government budget. [[Abg. Oils: Where are they?]] They have flown back to workers and the economy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's where you need to read the budget carefully! So these are things that are just obscene to me. We have always known how to promote the medium-sized economy. We speak on every third speech about the medium-sized economy being the backbone of this Republic. – No mention of this in the government programme, although in this context we have brought in many, many ideas in the last legislative period. I hope that there will be a lot more here in the course of the discussions on the tax reform, which was raised in 2009/2010, on new and creative tax ideas. I hope that's preferable. That would be good for Austria – and not a brave policy, as it was presented here today.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e9222	The next item is Mr Buchinger, Federal Minister for Social Affairs. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e9243	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. High house! Last autumn, the Economic Research Institute, the Wifo, presented a White Paper on growth and employment. In this White Paper there is a whole chapter under the heading: Social system as a productive force Perhaps this may surprise one or the other, who has seen social policy from the point of view of the distribution of acquired prosperity, but the Wifo explicitly points out that social security also has a strong influence on the achievement of social wealth, because it is a moment of stability, even over crisis cycles in the course of the economic cycle, because social security levels are stabilizing, because it means that it also means personal courage to show risk willingness, because it means renewal and mobility and flexibility, knowing that there is a catch-up network when the risk should be hit. And it is also a productive force that trusts in an enhanced system of social security. This view and policy, based on this view, has shaped the economic and social development of Austria for many years, with special dynamics in the 1970s and 1980s. It was not until later that the view was expressed that social expenditure was primarily social costs, and the welfare state would be a burden, an obstacle to society that would prevent investment and economic development. As wrong as this approach – I refer to the Wifo – was and is theoretical, as harmful as it is in political practice, and we have experienced how quickly confidence in the social state can also be shaken. They all know the comparisons with the “hospitable deer. ” They are usually used to identify the behavior of capital that is shy and volatile and that cannot be feared. At least equally true are these comparisons with the “sorry deer” in relation to confidence in social security. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign, as the speaker is about to exceed the agreed speaking time.]] Because just as there is a real cold and a felt cold when the wind blows, as there is real inflation and a felt inflation that is significantly higher, as we know, so there is also a real, real security and a felt social security, which is important for the development of the country which is a valuable asset. The new Federal Government attaches great importance to this confidence in social security and the further development of our social security system. The Federal Government and I hereby acknowledge the ongoing renewal of social systems and the social protection of individuals, in conjunction with a fair competitive economy. The goal of full employment, which we strive and pursue together, is supported by an ambitious social policy, and I am pleased that I can assume responsibility as part of the Federal Government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This is accompanied by an offensive education policy and an active labour market policy. We can thus accept the existing and new social challenges and contribute to solving the problems in this area. In the field of care and care for the elderly, the further development of a high-performance and differentiated care landscape is a priority. This ranges from social information and care services to stationary care and care in our good old-age homes. We attach great importance to the greatest possible freedom of choice between the different forms of use of social services. Additional support measures and offers can be found in the government programme for those affected and members, if they are caring for, but also for civil society, volunteering. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A variety of individual measures to strengthen care, to strengthen care and care will support this implementation, from the point of view of durability, quality assurance and permitted legal conditions. In order to support family care, a significant additional step is also envisaged with the takeover of pension contributions. In general, important adjustments and improvements to the pension laws of 2003 and 2004 are made in pension law, adaptations that mitigate existing social hardships and increase fairness in the pension system. An extension of the discount-free possibility of access to the pension by 55 and 60 after 40 or 45 years of contributions to the long-term insurance scheme over the entire period of the legislative period will fulfill the promise that 45 years will be enough to retire under the current framework conditions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign.]] [[Calls:Reading time]] As a result, the double cost of the corridor board is halved. A central feature of the new social policy is the fight against poverty, which has already been detailed and prominently explained in the statements of the Federal Chancellor and Mr Vice-Chancellor. We demonstrate, for example, how the link between modern social policy and active labour market policies creates employment bridges in the field of demand-oriented minimum security. [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign again.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Speaking time!]] We show how a springboard, a trampoline is created here to return from poverty and exclusion into participation in the labour market and in other social conditions. For people with disabilities, we have developed a wealth of measures to which we can subsequently address in detail. [[Call the FPÖ:Ready time!]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! While in many countries social security systems worldwide become more fragile and bleak and there are tendencies that the social state becomes a charity, a welfare state, the new Federal Government sets other expansive moments and elements. I am pleased that in a new federal government, I can work together with you and the social partners to ensure that politics focuses on the needs and interests of people. I invite you to participate together.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e9351	The next item is Mr. Federal Minister for the Environment, Agriculture and Forestry Dipl.-Ing. Pröll. – I ask you to respect the speaking time agreement and keep time.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e9383	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! The government programme presented today is undoubtedly a very good programme with regard to the quality of life for our country as regards the prospects for the future for farmers in terms of ensuring the quality of life and the environment as a whole, and this programme will also help to ensure that we will have satisfied consumers in Austria in the future. And I'm also glad that what belongs together stays together. Since 2000, it has proven itself to have a responsibility for agriculture and the environment in an optimal manner, and to be very critical for the future in order to be responsible for the quality of life in a common place. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Being responsible for agriculture, water resources, the quality of water and the availability of the forest as an increasingly important resource for sustainable energy future, for the whole of the environment and also for security and independence in the field of energy and food supply is a great task. And if I have heard this one time or another today, in the program of this coalition the future will be too short, then only the three chapters of agriculture, the environment and energy impressively disprove these claims. – Everything so to speak in the green area for red-white-red. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We asked ourselves two important questions at the beginning of the negotiations: firstly: What do we have to do for our farmers in order to create an environment in increased international and European competition that will enable them to fulfil their task of sustainable food production and landscape care? What must we do to leave our children a world that provides them with a healthy and secure basis of life? And the key points of the Government Convention are clear, even if some argue. The objectives are clear, and you assume, Professor Van der Bellen, that I and we will work together to achieve all these objectives, which are addressed in the future, with the appropriate measures. What are the important strategic objectives? First of all: Each euro will be ‘reclaimed’ from Brussels. That was not always the case, it was not a matter of course, even in the debate before the 1. It is not a matter of course of course that the money for farmers and rural areas will be “brought down” as a whole. That's safe. A 3-billion-€ package will provide this basis in the future by 2010. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We can use these €3 billion for the mining industry, for an environmental programme in the agricultural sector and for an investment offensive – I think this is a very important point for strengthening competition. We will give a clear impetus to women's opportunities in rural areas. With the agricultural diesel, we will ensure that there is competition with competitors across Europe, and we will also set new and important accents on many social issues concerning farmers. We will also continue to fight together – and this commitment we have carried over the past seven years – for a genetic engineering-free Austria. Nor will anyone prevent us from doing so, not in Brussels and not internationally, because this path has been successful because it should be successful and it also distinguishes us from many others who are already relying on genetic engineering. This also gives us an important market economy asset in our hands. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I think what is closest to people must be particularly important to politics, and these are the communities. If you look through this government program, you'll see, we're just setting an important impulse for the communities: Broadband offensive with €300 million – substantially and noticeably more money, especially for the municipalities – in the area of flood protection and protection from natural hazards. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the energy issue is concerned, we rely on independence, economy and the principle of sustainability. We are focusing more than other countries on renewable energy sources, with very ambitious targets: by 2010 increasing the use of fuel – much has already been mentioned today – expansion of biomass; all important contributions also to the achievement of our climate change targets. Ladies and gentlemen! Together with the people in Austria, we will also focus on the issue of energy saving/energy efficiency. Good for the environment, good for the wallet – especially at rising energy prices! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Protect the environment, benefit opportunities – due to the short period of time only a few keywords. Yes, environmental technology offensive abroad: In the ten new member countries and also in China, in the booming markets, we want to improve the quality of life with our technology and create jobs in this country, here in Austria. Clearly, we will also make progress in what is at the heart of our environmental policy, namely climate protection, in Austria, in Europe and internationally. We will continue our path towards active anti-atomic policies in Europe. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The aim is to remain the only – unfortunately almost only – anti-atom lobby in Europe and to become even stronger. This is what we are doing in all the institutions in whose formations we have taken up on this issue. In this sense: A very good programme for quality of life in Austria, for rural areas, for farmers, simple and simple: for all of us!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e9501	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e9523	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Pröll! Mr Neo-Minister Buchinger, you are the body representative of this government programme, as it could hardly be described more accurately if you have now been listened to: Flossules, worts, nothing concrete – and with so much hot air already an active contribution to climate change. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Well, Mrs. Colleague! That's not even the greens clap!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So much hot air is no reason to clap, Mr Pröll, I'm sorry. You should have expected something more concrete. After all, you're not new to the government and you should be able to rule a little. The fact that Mr Buchinger is perhaps still a little bothering with the first speech on the government bank may now be less surprising. However, I would have expected a little more concreteness. Above all, I would have expected a little more social competence on the cross-sectional matter of women's policy, which has once again been pursued in the government programme. How one can talk about poverty in Austria without mentioning the word “woman” at all, I am sluggish. I cannot understand how to talk about social security and social security without addressing women and their problems at all. Mr Buchinger, I hope there will be some supplementary education for you, which is not from German Chancellor Gusenbauer! As regards the importance of women's policy in the government programme, one can very clearly refer to lean three pages of 170, or how many they are. It is not always the determining factor in quantity, I totally agree. If one analyzes – which does not last long – these headings, which are summarized on three pages, one can see that even the quality leaves more than to be desired. In some areas, we have admitted very concrete proposals from the government – in quite a few. Mr Gusenbauer, Federal Chancellor, for example, mentioned a concrete action on the morning, in the area of the new self-employed, in which we, particularly women's policy, have major problems with marginal employment, inadequate employment forms and insufficient social security. This is where the government has planned a very concrete measure, namely a seal of quality “Checked Masters. ” Whether this will solve the problems in the lives of many people working as “I-AG” in the IT sector, as a service provider in the personal field, I doubt, but it is something concrete anyway. I am looking for such a concrete feature in the entire women's policy chapter and in other relevant passages of the government programme completely in vain. Let us just take the example of the labour market. There is a number, a goal: Women's employment rate is to be raised to 65 percent by 2010. Wonderful: We had 64.7 percent in 2006; that is, you now need three and a half years to raise the employment rate by 0.3 percent. That's what you call an objective in women's policy? – That is pathetic, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let us take note of the example of poverty, which is a major and pressing problem, as the SPÖ has not been tired in recent years. What do vulnerable women in Austria expect from this Federal Government? - Nothing! Because this says that the minimum wage should once again “get out” of the social partners. We had that already in the last government programme, ladies and gentlemen. However, the Austrians still do not have the merit of at least € 1,000, and they will continue to wait in vain. Or: How's a woman trying to get back into the profession after a child break? What does the government offer it? – As before: an orientation course during the karenz phase. So it can only be said, Madame Rauch-Kallat - now Member - is absolutely right if she says: The objectives of recent years are again reflected in this government programme when it comes to women's policy – and nothing else! There is a little guidance, a little mentoring, a little bit of beautiful explanations of intent, but at least one not: additional financial resources so that women's policy can finally be fulfilled with life. That's more than a shame! Let me make one last comment on Mrs Rosenkranz and the debate on childless women, whether they be ministers or not. I would like to experience that this question is asked by a man! Why does a woman on the government bank have to be responsible for whether she has children or not? [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign.]] I think that this is a private matter, but it is a betrayal of the image of women, which is also prevailing in this government, especially in the field of the ÖVP. I hope that the government will be put to the test by the people and voters.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e9603	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e9625	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the new government! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus very briefly, in 5 minutes, on the chapter on agriculture, and first of all I would like to say that this declaration of government is for the first time a part of agriculture's capital: 'and rural'. This is new; I have looked closely at the government programmes of the last government declarations. Here the “rural space” is already prominently at the front. What is the rural area? – These are all the people who live there, all the people who live there, all the people who work there. Of course, agriculture, farmers and farmers, who work there as an essential pillar, is very important. First of all, we have a very essential task to do, Mr Federal Minister: Market regulation laws should be amended or redefined. Not only did the Constitutional Court ask of us, But this is what the farmers also demand of us, so that they have legal certainty in their work, in their works, in their activity. A second essential condition and work will be to realize it, because the first time in the government programme is that the intensity of the work is anchored and contained as a criterion for funding. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is really a milestone, I would say that subsidies are calculated even after the labour force, after the use of work. In this context, it must also be said that this government programme involves a business-size modulation for large businesses. This will also allow smaller and medium-sized agricultural units to survive. It is a very, very great responsibility, finally to stop the deaths of farmers, to block these farms when it comes to maintaining our cultural landscape, our leisure area as we wish. All these measures also ensure jobs, jobs in agriculture, jobs in rural areas. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, a major innovation in this government programme is the safeguarding and strengthening of the entire economic structure in rural areas. So not only agriculture, but also all the small and smallest farms are mentioned in the programme with and important and necessary for the maintenance and development of our rural regions – of course in connection with agriculture, of course in fair competition with agriculture as the essential close-up supplier. All of this is also contained in this government programme, which, of course, the opposition parties now clearly want to make a poor start and simply want to question. An essential pillar – and this makes me very happy and happy – is the rural communities and the smaller cities in rural areas. There are also smaller cities – not only large towns, but also smaller cities – that are mentioned in a decided manner, and here – also to read in this government programme – it is said: more financial resources for the smaller and medium-sized communities! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is an essential key point, and it is not the only one! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is also quite clear that the necessary resources must be made available for water supply and disposal. It is also very clear and central in it, ladies and gentlemen, that the core competence in water supply must remain with the communities – a clear rejection of any attempt at privatisation in this area! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! One last sentence: It has already been said today that flood protection is also very important in this government programme. For this I am very, very grateful in the name of those who still fear these events again and again. [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign.]] Federal Minister! You have already had excellent employees here, and we will continue to implement these work together in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e9716	The next item is the speech by Mr Kickl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e9739	Madam President. Dear Members on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, one thing has to be left real to the SPÖ negotiating team, which is now largely identical with the government team: Overall, and therefore probably particularly in the area of social policy, you have succeeded in making the impossible possible. Then: Just that, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, of which you said a few weeks and months ago that this will never be possible under your leadership in Austria, you have now implemented in a wide range of areas. A terrible scenario for many Austrians! But obviously you are so close to the face of power, so close to the opportunity to enter, then go into your knees and have thrown everything they had promised before, high and holy themselves. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that many people – and also many of your own Members – can see what you can see when you look into the faces here – who have hoped that it might end with the social cold course in this country, now only have the hope that the whole thing is a bad dream or a nightmare, from which they will soon be minted. But reality is another: No, it is as it is and as it is stated in this government programme! In concrete terms, that means: We will be delivered to the Eurofighter. Austria will have to wait until the Sankt-Nimmerleins Day for the “social fighter” – which has disintegrated into air – if it goes after you. Ladies and gentlemen! The only function that the SPÖ fulfils is the function of a social fig leaf, which the ÖVP has not depended on. I understand that you are pleased to be able to continue your policy for large companies, your policy for lobby groups, so that you can make it happen that the rich in this country are getting even richer and the poor are getting a little poorer. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] You may be indifferent. If the Minister of Social Affairs today almost rips up his mouth as a social-political lion, then he has to be careful because he can then be looked into that mouth, and then we find that he has been drawn almost every tooth, especially the teeth of the teeth. And the ones you didn't pull, you still dropped yourself so you can't bite. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Yes, you are, in fact, totally toothless, where the fight against unemployment is concerned, no question at all – precisely because you are only social ministers, but not employment and social ministers, as the SPÖ's promise has actually been! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They have thus put the whole area of the labour market, the entire area of unemployment and the whole area of combating poverty in principle at the hands of the EIA. A total crasher that you did! Ladies and gentlemen! If it were only to the detriment of SPÖ, then it would not matter to us all, but the victims are the unemployed who left us with this elected government, and these are people who have sought a perspective and who have not deserved what they have now been served on behalf of Social Democracy! Ladies and gentlemen, these people have been betrayed and sold by you, just as you have already sold and betrayed the pensioners on the first day of their grand coalition re-approach. They have been betrayed just as you have betrayed the students and will continue to betray them, as you have already announced. I don't want to go into the details at all. In any case, there can be no mention of any burden in this area. What you're doing is: They “increase” – under quotations – the pensions by 1.6 percent gross, not telling the people that the net is far less – they are now slowly coming on it – and thus continue the course that has led to a permanent devalue in recent years. For this you increase health insurance contributions, and you do not reduce VAT on the cost of medication. Where you are finally going to spend something, you think of such a great thing as the minimum or basic security, in which you make no difference again between those who are citizens in that country and those who are not citizens and for whom we imagine that there should be a system of social responsibility and social security. [[Abg. Oil: Apartheid!]] This is not an unfair thing, but it is only fair to those who, as citizens, also face their obligations to this Republic. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: This is a apartheid system!]] - Yes, I know you have your problems with it. We'll see it a little different. Ladies and gentlemen! At the end of the day, perhaps some word on Mr Pröll's words: He is a congenial partner of SPÖ, a second master of disaster. [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign.]] If both work together – you can be promised; and I come to the last sentence – then those who think well with this country will face difficult times. There is plenty of reason to worry about it, hardly to hope for it!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e9829	I am now interrupting the negotiations on the Federal Government's declaration so that the urgent question requested can be dealt with at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[14:59:31]] Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Ing. Peter Westenthaler, colleague and colleague at the Federal Minister for Social Security, Generations and Consumer Protection on social democratic breach of trust in social policy (247/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e9860	We start with the call for urgent inquiry. It is a few seconds before 15:00, but I think it happens in agreement with all those involved. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10173	I now ask Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler for his statement on the urgent question. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10194	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! It is also a good thing in this government agreement, which is the beginning of the comment that we should build on the achieved one. This is actually a good testimony to the government of the past seven years, and I also use this testimony to the social benefits of the past seven years for the managing ministers first of the FPÖ and then the BZÖ in the Social Ministry. We have increased the social rate in these seven years, we have implemented a pension scheme, which is expressly praised in the Government Convention by mentioning that we have one of the best pension models in the world. Yes, we have, and we have implemented this over the last seven years. We have implemented a great social policy achievement with the child money, against which the SPÖ – remember! – has been massively watered at the beginning and has also voted. She was massively opposed to the model of child money. For the first time, we have made child training periods also at retirement periods for women who can be reckoned. This is also an important measure. We have implemented a heavy-worker regulation. We have enforced a so-called hackler scheme, so that we can also retire after 45 years of corresponding insurance periods. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I am astounded today when I read a statement by the Minister of Social Affairs in the Upper Austrian News: “If you want the hacker scheme to remain, you have to pick SPÖ again in 2010.” – Minister! The hacker scheme has introduced the government in front of you, so it will not use anything. You actually have to choose BZÖ if you want the hacker scheme, because we have introduced it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We have achieved a great deal in the field of disabled people. That doesn't really dispute anyone anymore. The Disability Equality Act; we have enforced a “Millionage of the disabled”. In 1999 we had 52 000 disabled people in employment. Four years later, there were about 60,000 disabled people in employment. It's a success! For the first time since 1995, we have increased the care allowance by 2%, and we have done so even though we have implemented a double tax reform and have also kept the government budget stable. And this is an achievement that you can actually build on, as you have in the Government Convention. A good witness! I am only concerned that, because of the many promises they have broken, even in social policy, the famous social warmth you have promised will not be the result of this, but will be a reversal of the past development. The statements of the Minister for Social Affairs suggest this. The election promises, which were broken by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, were discussed in great detail today. It would blow the frame once again. So let's come to his supervisor at the breakup of the promises, the Social Minister, who is always so happy to see himself as Robin Hood. And we now insist that he is not a Robin Hood, who is raising the money from the rich to the poor, but that he is incassing as a sheriff of Nottingham and actually pulling the money out of the people's pocket. And we will have the proof of this today in this debate on our urgent question, and that is why we have also tabled this urgent question, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I am also amazed at what the Minister of Social Affairs has today given to general floscles in his first statement from the Government Bank. The only tangible sentence was: He's glad he's here. Even this one is reprehensible! Even he's not right. Mr. Sozialminister, I quote an interview in Ö1-Morgenjournal of 12. Yes, where you've been asked: After what do you think that you are Your place of business has been exhausted, that they no longer have skills, that work at the ÖVP is, that families at the ÖVP is, that youth is at the ÖVP, and that you actually have zero competences? – Do you know what You said about that? – I quote: The SPÖ has given other questions a higher attention, but I am personally affected and also a little sad. - Quote. He's a little sad, the Social Minister, so he looks like he's sitting up there today. And in the “standard” he says on the same subject, namely the scrapping of his department: I can understand, but it hurts! - Well, it hurts him. He sits right on the first day as a sad, pain-suffering minister on the government bank, and therefore also the urgent request so that he can recover from this suffering and tell us how he really thinks it, because everything he has done so far is already something to question. Minister Buchinger! They were sitting on Sunday in the “Openly Said ” program. That's not an extraordinary thing in itself, it takes place every Sunday. But this mission was extraordinary because you were sitting there with representatives of youth, with young people. I think there was a pretty high deployment rate, about 600 000 people in it. And do you know what you gave of yourself there? – They said there all serious that in the future, €400 million of additional expenditure will be spent on social issues each year! – and to that, you said, €200 million per year in educational expenditure. And the young representatives sat vis-à-vis and looked, because, of course, they couldn't escape it and because they didn't know that what you said at that time was the white untruth, Mr. Minister. I will now read to you the budget plan of your Federal Government: For the year 2007, more expenditure on social security is planned, not €400 million, but only € 185 million. Do you know what that means? I made a chart for you here. According to Minister of Finance Grasser alone in 2006 we have €5 billion in additional revenue from taxes that were not budgeted. 5 billion € in surplus income! And next year, you will spend a total of € 185 million more on social matters. There's a graphic for you... [[The speaker shows a board towards the government bank.]] Mr Sozialminister, perhaps you have the kindness and look at it. – Don’t interest him anyway! [[The speaker turned the table towards the Plenarsaal.]] A graphics: 5 billion € in surplus income, and the small corner there, the 185 million €, that you spend more for social things. – That’s your social conscience! Very, very poor, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy, and very poor, Mr Social Minister! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You, Mr Social Minister, have said the untruth, and I say to you: To say the untruth is basically unfair, but to say the untruth of young people is double bad and double negative, and you should apologize to the young people before whom you said the untruth. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] So we have a Social Minister who does not know the budget timetable at all, who does not know what resources he has. He doesn't know what skills he has. – He has no skills at all, he has to go and ask questions. For example, when it comes to issues of minimum security – a horse of the Minister of Social Affairs, so he always brags – he has to ask the ÖVP, specifically the Minister of Finance and the Minister for Labour and Economy. If he wants to do something about emergency aid, he has to go to Minister Bartenstein. He can't do anything alone. He, as it were, leads a “grunted” ministry that simply has no skills. – That’s something you need to look more closely at! And precisely there, in fact, the criticism of the U.S. Social Democrats – after all, Mrs. Hostasch, the former Minister of Social Affairs, Mr. Edlinger, the former Minister of Finance, and also your Upper Austrian party chairman, Haider, said that the agreed content, for example in the field of social affairs, was not compatible with the credibility of the party, namely the SPÖ. That's it! They have been “clean-off” – that has already been said today – like a Christian tree in January and have depended on social competence in the Federal Chancellery in the wardrobe like a coat and no longer have any skills in the social field, except in some peripheral areas. And that's to criticise! This has to be criticized, such as the care sector. – There’s Mr. Lapp sitting up there, who should know this: At the last meeting of the National Council, we submitted an own-initiative proposal here in this House demanding that the care allowance be increased by five percent and then valorised each year. However, you have said that you do not need to agree, because that will be contained in the Government Agreement. Mrs. Haidlmayr – and this has really been a sacrifice for it – is a witness that this will be decided in the Committee. What's the result now? – We have no increase in the care allowance at all, but a unique, unique valorization. How much? – One or two percent in four years! Do you know what that is? – This is a commonplace with the caring people in this country, an insult because you have abandoned people in this area, ladies and gentlemen. Or: Mr Sozialminister, what do you say about your commitment to your SPÖ programme in August 2006, that there is no legalisation of foreign workers? – They have worked for this in Salzburg. You said: That's not the solution! Now we have it: Legalisation of foreign workers and opening up the protection provisions of the labour market we have, for seven years. This is opened so that everyone can get in and, in the social sector, in the care sector, ultimately make wage and social dumping and can work everywhere. What's that supposed to be like to the union? Mr Haberzettl is on the list of speakers, and I am already very excited about what he will say on this subject, and also about what he will say about it, Mr Haberzettl from the union, how apprentices will be dealt with in the future, that apprentices of the protection of employment will essentially be removed, because they are announced every year. So far, this was only the case in the first three months. In the future they will also be at the end of the first and at the end of the second academic year. We will take a closer look at this, and I am now inviting – because many are also sitting in front of the screens – every individual apprentice who feels unfairly treated, who is to be terminated on the basis of your new law, to report to us, and we will help him. This is a promise that, unlike yours, I can promise. [[Abg. Oillingers: This time also – very significant!]] You want to introduce a care insurance – a care insurance insurance that has already been shown in Germany, how unsocial it is because it is precisely the people concerned who have to pay in because it is not eligible for funding?- Oh, my God! Because she's just ahead of failure in Germany, we're against this care insurance. No, at last increase the care allowance by at least 5 per cent and allow justice to operate, Minister of Social Affairs! – That and nothing else we demand of you! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] No increase in care fees – increase for this Get the health insurance contributions! – “Wonderful”, everyone should pay! For seven years in our time in the government, we don't need to increase health insurance contributions once – you increase them, you have raised them, but in the care money you just look away! Minimum security, Minister of Social Affairs, that is the best at all: € 726 for nothing in essence! And that's not the famous trampoline, so to speak, into a better world, but do you know what that is? – In reality, a springboard into social dependence, but also into the social hammock! What does an Austrian worker think today, a worker with their 1 000 € minimum wage, which is net of course much less, which is not even 900 € if you deduct social security contributions, if he or she is only slightly above the so-called minimum guarantee? Why is he supposed to go to work? – Questions Let's get him out of here. Why should he still go to work in this country if you spend the money with both hands for people who don't want to do anything at all? That's what we're against! This is not only immature, but it is also badly negotiated, poorly thought through! And – once again – you can’t promise it here either – now I’m back at the beginning – because you don’t have the competence to do so, Minister of Social Affairs! Again, “grooved soup chicken ”! They do not have the competence because the competence in social services, including minimum insurance, is in the financing of countries! You promise something here that you cannot implement as long as the countries have not promised to finance. And I wish you every good thing for the negotiations, which you cannot have, because you are not responsible for them at all. - So, I don't know how to do that. And there is something else that is socially unfair in this minimum guarantee. Do you know what's wrong? – The Minister of Social Affairs goes here and says: 726 € – but all national social benefits are taken into account! That is, housing aid, heating aid, all country support in the social field are gone! That means, the €726 that someone has to deal with is much less! All of this is taken into account! That is in the model, and that is therefore really unsocial and unwarranted. They should have thought about how we can actually help people who work full time who work around the clock. – Why is there nothing about an investive wage model, as we have proposed, so that we finally reduce the injustice between the strongly rising corporate profits and the less rising real labour income at last, so that we give people the opportunity to participate in corporate profits, as some businesses already have? Then they will also work more and will be motivated, and then at the end of the year they will have more money and more purchasing power to feed their family as well. – These are good models that we should consider, and not any Marxist minimum wage models you want to use! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Or: Increased fees. – Mr Sozialminister, do you know that all fees will be increased? – Around 100 million € are talking about the Austrians! Just a small example: Next year, in 2008, a million passports will be issued in Austria. Every Austrian who receives a new passport next year is already paying the higher fees because the increase in fees has already gone over the stage and is in the end already a reality. - That's the point! Or: With the commuters, with the drivers, that's where it gets skinned! The oil price is increased by the mineral oil tax increase – it is fully skinned on it! We looked at this: A commuter who has to travel back and forth every day from Vienna – and there are some! –, will pay € 144 more from next year alone for driving so that he can get to work. What does the trade union Haberzettl say about this? And I am also very excited about what the Minister of Social Affairs will say about the massive burden on the workers who depend on the car, as the Socialists have already done in the federal states. What about the disability pension? – That’s still very interesting! Federal Minister Buchinger, the government agreement says that the disability pension is being harmonised. Wonderful Word! Only: What is behind this because there are different pension models on the basis of different job opportunities? Today – and this is what we demand of you – give the guarantee that the disability pension will not be reduced, but will be maintained because it is a possibility for sick, poor people to retire earlier! That's what we're asking you to do! Interpret the government agreement the way we demand it from you! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr. Sozialminister Buchinger, one thing has to be left to you: They have also had an approach of honesty in this “open said” broadcast. – I really had to laugh out loud, when you suddenly said all the serious things there: Yes, the SPÖ does not have the majority, so we could not implement 100 percent! - And then it went on: Well, I don't know, not 90, not 80, not 70, not 60. – Quote Buchinger. At 60 he then stopped because he noticed that the stacking was not so well done either. Yeah, then what did you even do? – That’s like in a bazaar: not 80, not 70, not 60 percent implemented! I'll tell you something. This is like in a bazaar, you have ultimately sold and playful your social policy concerns in this bazaar of power for power, for entry into government! – You did that! And that's why we're going to take you to the floor. We are taking you to the floor today, which is about to break election promises. Therefore, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Yes, we should consider whether – as well as in the private sector or in every individual private: If he does something wrong and says something wrong, he can be blamed for it – including a politician, a member of the government, a representative or a member of parliament, whenever he is caught in a breach of an election promise, he can be punished. [[Abg. Oillinger: But that would be extremely dangerous for the BZÖ!]] [[Violent calls at the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I also tell you how: either he pays a fee for a charitable purpose – on the other hand, no one will have anything – or he does social work, perhaps for 6 € per hour – that would be a possibility – or it will be shortened the promotion of the parties – would also be a way to have an instrument for it – and the Minister of Justice should consider how we get to more truth and more reality in politics. – We will work for that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Does that apply to Haider?]] Mr. Sozialminister Buchinger! The broken promises of the SPÖ – not only from Mr Gusenbauer, but also from the past – are Legion. That's nothing new. Let's remember, please. The famous “pension lie”: Before the Christmas election, Franz Vrannitzky promised people that the pensions would not be reduced. – Then the choice was, and after that they were shortened. The famous “Teacher Lies”: Viktor Klima has said: In my time, there will be no more apprentices standing on the street and getting no work! - Wrong! Don't stop! [[Abg. Eder: What have you promised and not kept?]] Today, we have already announced a double-digit number of broken electoral promises by Gusenbauer – and Mr. Sozialminister Buchinger is now taking part in this history. I don't know, maybe I want to. Once you become head of government, Minister Buchinger, because you are rowing up a promise with these broken promises – before the election, after the election, up to what you mentioned only a few days ago in the “Open” show, where you have said the untruth to young people. In other words, it is necessary that we judge according to the principle: Social benefits for all they need, and not for all they want. That is social security! That is, social benefits primarily for Austrian citizens, for socially needy people. We must resist the cold of globalisation from the social warmth of our homeland. That is where we can meet – but not with the measures you have finally developed! It takes for this implementation of social reformers – and not any beautiful speakers or wordbreakers, but politicians who tackle and also implement them. [[Abg. Oillinger: You must be careful when you take it up, Mr. Westenthaler!]] How seriously you take this and how seriously you take parliamentarianism, we look at it very carefully. Even when answering this urgent question – your first one you have to answer, Minister Buchinger; there are 48 questions – will show, Mr Cap, how seriously this government is taking Parliament. I am already very excited about the answers you will give us now, Minister Buchinger. I hope that when it comes to social security, you will always be looking for communication with the opposition parties, because perhaps you can explain what you really are responsible for and what you are not responsible for.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10427	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and properly submitted and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10479	To answer the urgent question, the Federal Minister for Social Security, Generations and Consumer Protection spoke. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10500	Thank you very much, Madam President. High house! I ask for more forbearance with Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler than I have now noticed them from parts of the House in the speeches. He has, after all, made a contribution to our health improvement after the food that perhaps one or the other had. A little more blood supply in the stomach and abdominal area due to a higher circulation will not harm us all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I advocate this forbearance and do not want to comment very thoroughly on this powerful counter-programme on our social security programme in the Government Declaration and in my contribution because I will focus on the issues. I say so much about it that the electorate has given a wise answer. I answer question 1 and tell you that I mentioned the correct figures. Additional funds for social policy up to €400 million are available by the year 2010. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You said “yearly ”!]] These funds will include € 185 million in 2007 – I am going to question 2 – in 2008 € 260 million, in 2009 € 340 million, in 2010 € 400 million. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Every year you said!]] I cannot answer Question 3 out of respect for the House, which will make, or will not, any corresponding changes to the Federal Ministry Act. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Ing. Westenthal]] It is your decision-making. Question 4 I am going to answer that in fact in the... [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You don't mean that seriously now! You must know what you are responsible for!]] Do you want to complete your questions or do you want to hear my answers, Mr. Klubobmann? If you want to complete the questions, then come out or do it in writing, I can also answer them well. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I answer question 4 with a no. I shall not vote against such a proposal. I have signed the government programme and, of course, I feel committed to this government programme. Question No 5, I also answer with a clear no. I didn't negotiate the distribution of resorts, that was chief business. Question 6 I answer with a clear and clear yes. I am in favour of this outcome of the negotiations, even if it hurts me, Mr Klubobmann, in some areas. On Question 7 I say that we will start in 2007 with an extension of the social budget by € 185 million, and I would have applauded every additional million who would have been devoted to the social sector under the government in which you were also involved. I would have liked it. We also devote 185 million €. This is infinitely infinitely more, Mr Klubobmann, than at your time! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Question 8: In the social field, there is in principle a free charge. If you point specifically to fees where you ask me if they will be raised, I will also give you the concrete answer. In this general sense, I can only give you a general answer. On question 9, I would like to inform you that the social partners are invited and have also undertaken to enter into a general collective agreement with a minimum wage of € 1,000. We have positive signals from the social partners. If this project cannot be implemented, I will work as a Social Minister to ensure that we consider an appropriate legal regime. I will also be very determined to ensure that the minimum wage rates for employment groups not covered by collective agreements are also guaranteed a minimum income of €1 000. On Question No 10, I inform you that the social contributions to be paid by the worker are about 18 percent. The monthly net wage, Mr. Klubobmann, is therefore about € 850, 14 times a year at a gross salary of € 1,000. In international literature and politics, one can say – as one wants – that there is a distance offer of about 20 percent, which would be useful between replacement income and labour income. We lie, if you calculate this – I did it for you – with an increase of 23 percent from this €726 to € 850, 14 times a year. Question 11 is to be told that you may not know at all – then I am telling you now – that willingness to work is a prerequisite and a cornerstone of the minimum security of demand and, moreover, that the threshold of the minimum security required at the level of the final expansion is a net 692 € with the above-mentioned value the distance offer is well respected from – since you have to deduct from gross. On Question 12 I inform you that a single person with a basis of assessment of € 850 net – to be taken from the question before – has a claim to an unemployment benefit of approximately €600, including additional contribution 12 times a year. If these additional contributions, as provided for in the government programme, are also introduced for emergency aid workers – that was something I had been negotiating with my colleague Bartenstein for a very long time – then the benefit would be 570 € for single persons at this level of income as an emergency aid – that is, 600 € unemployment benefit, 570 € emergency aid. For multi-personal households, it is not possible to calculate this, since the need for assistance depends on the family income to be charged, and we have also agreed to a social-political improvement there and will also be implemented together. On Question 13, I may inform you of my position: I think that this difference in income is appropriate. It should also be borne in mind that additional claims, such as labour law, are acquired in the case of income from work, wage income. If you allow, I would answer questions 14 to 17 and 19 to 22 because they are related, in total, then give the answer to question 18 extra. I have been a social representative of the Salzburg Government for almost the last three years, so I know both the interests of the countries and – much more importantly, Mr Klubobmann – the interests and needs of social assistance providers in the countries that, with great hope and expectation – I have received many hundred consenting emails – have included our common model of need-oriented minimum security. In the past – partly also with my participation at national social conference conferences in 2003 and 2004 – the result of a joint working group on the development of social assistance rights, which has already been used under my predecessor – if I have expected it right now – Federal Minister other than Lore Hostasch, has noted positively and states that this is a good instrument to achieve harmonisation of federal and national services taking into account minimum security elements. The countries have also made rapid implementation of these proposals in the framework of an agreement between the Federal Government and the Länder pursuant to Article 15a B-VG, which reads as follows: common measures for minimum social security; Citing – explained ready, provided that the federal government in its area of competence also designed and brought into the negotiations efforts to implement minimum standards accordingly. That is exactly what Minister Bartenstein and I have done, and therefore it is to be expected – and the signals of the countries are very positive, both by the excretive chairman of the national conference, head of state Pühringer, as well as by the current chairman of the national conference, head of state Burgstaller, that the countries will continue to take a positive position on this minimum guarantee formulated in the government programme and will make their contribution within the framework of national legislation, especially since already with the increase of the compensation allowance rate on the poverty risk threshold and the decisive improvements in the area of unemployment insurance, as provided for in the government programme, the Federal Government also accords with important measures at the same time in this field of social security and thus as a performance of the federal government. At the moment, it is planned that the level of social assistance provided by the countries will be increased at all stages by 2010 by the end of the year, i.e. during this legislative period, to the level of the compensatory allowance rate, at the same time as the value for the poverty limit which we have set. It is estimated that the country budgets of all nine countries could be charged up to €120 million by extending social assistance. I assume that the actual burden will be significantly below, because the development of minimum-security elements in emergency aid and the compensatory allowance rate will also provide relief from countries. As I know, almost all countries – perhaps even all, I suspect – are accountable for the corresponding relief effects and possible additional expenditure effects in order to be able to determine the actual additional burden in a balance at the end. Wherever this increased burden of countries will lie: This is an additional burden – and I ask for this change of view – for those involved in the new, needs-oriented minimum guarantee as additional benefits, as additional security of existence, as a contribution to poverty prevention. That is something we are concerned with, and we are pleased that after good negotiations we have found a consensus with the coalition partner. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On this occasion, I should like to mention the many social institutions – for example, the Caritas, the Diacony, the People's Aid and others – which have supported us in the public opinion that this need-oriented minimum security, this model of poverty prevention, is a whole, very essential progress to combat exclusion and poverty in Austria. And I am glad that these solutions have come. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At present, Mr Klubobmann, some 230 000 persons are entitled to compensation, some 90 000 are in need and some 114 000 are in receipt of benefits from open social assistance. How many people will finally benefit from a need-oriented minimum guarantee depends on the concrete design that we will try to shape in the next few days in many negotiations and discussions. Also, the current so-called non-taker ratio of persons who, for reasons of discouragement, do not trust in the corresponding benefits, or do not do so – they are valued differently by experts – will be of importance in the final determination of the number of persons who will benefit from the requirement-oriented minimum guarantee. In the run-up to the negotiations, I have estimated them to be 400 000, perhaps 450 000 Austrians. If you share the additional level, if you want to share the additional resources that we want here together with the countries, by this number of people, then you will see that the respectable and also individual improvements in the living situation will bring. However, even stronger improvements will result in us creating the link between minimum insurance and work, including organisationally secured by the labour market service and the corresponding services offered by the labour market service, thus creating the way to the bridge for employment in the first, second, at least on the third labour market. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to say, Mr Klubobmann, that the Federation has very much competence in the field of social assistance, and refer to Article 12 B-VG, in which a corresponding competence is defined. For emergency aid, I can still mention the number – because it is comparatively precise –: According to estimates from the labour market service and the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour, the additional effort will be around €70 million annually. The question 18, for which the € 118 million announced in the “Format” in 2007 is precisely used, is so common. They do not mention ‘Format’. I guess you mean the news magazine; that's not quite clear either. You will get a precise answer to a precise question. I'm asking for for forbearance here. I have to guess. I think you are referring to a statement that I made and in which I refer to the calculated amount of the additional costs of the new compensation guidelines, as they were calculated at the time. On question 23, I answer that I am convinced that Austria is indeed – now I can say – still one of the best pension insurance systems. It has been the interests of the workers, there are ÖGB, the Chamber of Workers, there have been many social institutions in recent years also very fighting that against the intentions that there has been, this kindness of our pension system could be maintained and we can build on it, after all, to maintain stability and trust in the system as a whole, and that is so important, I could also say this in my address – the Austrians in social security, especially where she is established in the long term – and this is an element of pension insurance – because social systems and trust in these systems, as Wifo writes, are a productive force. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Before the elections this sounded different!]] This ensures our prosperity. There is the corrective need I have made, and I will present the proposals for these corrections in such a timely manner that the House can decide on the corresponding changes in the first half of 2007 so that they can be with people quickly. They're waiting for it. This will bring reliefs between €50 and €180 per month for the individual referee. This is something we would have liked in the previous years. We do it, we implement our announcements. We do what people want, we put people in our country at the centre of our policy. This is the programme of the new joint federal government! [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Aubauer.]] On question 24, I answer that the government programme does not contain any evidence of the increase in the statutory retirement age in this legislative period; and for good reason you do not find yourself because we do not plan it. The talk is about a sustainability factor in the pension system, where life expectancy is to be taken into account and what then triggeres automation. Such a sustainability factor will be jointly developed by social partners and experts. My answer to question 25: The increase in the solidarity contribution for maximum pensions is not covered by the Coalition Agreement and is therefore not part of the joint government programme. That's how it's held. On question 26 I answer that it is within the responsibility of the Federal Chancellor to bring this point into the discussion. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It was promised!]] I will, of course, support him with full force, as everywhere, in these initiatives. On the question 27: I do not think about it, Mr Klubobmann – I do not know how you come up with the idea – to abolish the heavy work pension. I hope you in the high house don't think about it, because it would be in your hands. I think we don't plan this together and don't plan it, but I think very much about improvements and modernisations that have been abandoned so far, but whose need all experts see. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We have introduced this if you do not know!]] Your experts, ladies and gentlemen, also see these needs, and we have decided to set up a joint working group of experts and social partners who will make precisely these improvements, which will produce precisely these changes and give them to political discussion and decision-making. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We have introduced this, Minister!]] On the question 28: Dear Mr Klubobmann, the Austrian pension system not only grants Austrians and Austrians – and you should take this seriously – but also all those who maintain a pension with their insurance contributions of this paid-back system. All people who are socially insured in Austria are thus entitled to the corresponding insurance benefit. I stand for this, and I am confident and confident that the whole of the Federal Government and also a very large majority in this House are in favour of ensuring that people can continue to trust in the benefits they receive through laws. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You have announced an advance here and have tabled a corresponding motion for a resolution on broken electoral promises. Mr. Klubobmann, I admire your courage. I don't know if this isn't getting close to a self-hazard, but I have to say that what you're asking me here under item 29, I don't understand language either. [[Call the SPÖ:Genau!]] What increase are you talking about here? I would ask you, even if it is an extensive catalogue of questions, that you work out every single question as carefully as I will endeavour to continue to give Mr Klubobmann answers with due care. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On Question 30, I tell you that the legal situation that the BZÖ ÖVP government - I don't think I have to remember - has been created, i.e. the increase in pensions with the CPI. However, this year I will also have the opportunity to consider possible alternatives via working groups. In question 31: In the case of invalidity pensions, there is also need for improvement, modernisation needs, and the preparation of proposals. Personally, I am particularly concerned about the lack of professional protection for uneducated workers. And I am also willing to examine and introduce myself where there may be injustices in the field of self-employed. We will try together in a working group to help to break through the principle of greater fairness in social security systems. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On questions 32 and 33: ==References====External links==* Official website January 2005 increased by 2 percent. This valorization and implementation cause annual additional expenditure in the Federal Republic of Germany of € 30 million. The corresponding additional expenditure of the countries, roughly under €10 million, also results from the fact that the countries have been following the agreement under Article 15a B-VG. An increase in the Federal Care Money Act, as you have said at the speaker's desk, by 5 percent with effect from 1. January 2007 would be associated with a financial increase of around €84 million in the Federal Republic of Germany in 2007, according to the proportion of countries. And assuming that the pension adjustment factor reached 2 per cent for the following years according to ASVG, the additional budgetary burden for 2008 would have amounted to around € 125 million, € 169 for 2009 and € 217 million for 2010. Currently – as of November 2006 – 327 456 persons receive a care allowance in accordance with the Bundespflegegeldsgesetz, including in stages 1 to 6 people I would like to read to you from the number, Mr. Klubobmann, if you wish to do so in detail. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No, Minister, I just want to know, why don't you raise it?]] You do not wish to do so, thank you, then you will also help me to keep the speaking time that has already been covered. And the federal government spent €1.566 billion in 2005 for benefits under the Federal Care Act. The funding is from the federal budget. On the basis of the existing agreement under Article 15a B-VG, a further valorisation of the care allowance, which is included in the government programme, is to be negotiated with the countries and seen as part of a complete re-design, which can also be discussed and discussed in detail during the budgetary negotiations. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: such an exaggeration!]] You know that the government programme is intended to evaluate selectively once after care levels during this legislative period. This is the minimum programme we have undertaken. If we see a margin, we can also start further discussions, perhaps also realizations. Binding and agreed a valorization once selectively after care stages. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is pathetic!]] I do not need to remind you of how rarely has the care allowance been valorised so far and that there is, in principle, a great need in the field of care benefits, which we will try to cover even better than before by means of benefits in kind, but also by means of cash benefits. On Question 34, I can tell you that the government programme is intended to ensure the redesign of care with durability, to set up a working group for this because here federal, state and local authorities must vote. The corresponding results, i.e. the development of a durable, quality-proof and legal model, should be available as far as possible – I will do everything I can to support it – in 2007, because the corresponding amnesty scheme will take place at 30. June 2007 – the Hohe Haus knows that – expires. On Question 35, I give the answer that scientific studies confirm that the Austrian care system has taken the right course. Mr Klubobmann, here we may have a common ground – I am trying to see every common thing we can extend – that scepticism about a care insurance scheme, as it should be considered as a possible alternative model, should also be carefully examined, also in the working group, also from my current preliminary point of view. However, according to the results of the working group, if it turns out to be a better model, I am open to propose this better model. At present, I would be skeptical, especially in view of the related increase in the additional wage costs which could potentially endanger the economic location and thus also the social location of Austria. However, we will discuss this very responsibly in joint working groups at the appropriate time, as soon as possible, and we will submit a proposal to the House on this subject. Even though the current system has proved itself to be successful from my point of view, a system which is not yet 15 years old, it still needs adaptation, adaptation to changing conditions, and this further development of care provision, care provision is also very prominent in the joint government programme. We'll work this out together. On questions 36a and 36b, I can tell you that the budgeting in Chapter 15 of the estimates is 1/15456, measures for the disabled. The Secretary of State out of office and the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs will also know this very precisely, but I would also like to tell you from the Government Bank. Questions 37 and 38: 24-hour care. In this regard, given the division of competence, I will, together with the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour, start working in a joint working group to examine these proposals and to develop a model which sets the 24-hour care of labour law, professional law and social security law on a new legal basis or on an improved existing legal basis. In this context, the question of employment permits for foreign workers will still be considered, as far as it is not yet regulated. And I say to you that the originally little thought-out solution – which has been referred to by my criticism, which you have quoted – has been developed in a number of discussions with Mr Bartenstein the Federal Minister and with experts into a comprehensive, round solution proposal, which we could then agree with and which I also personally support. On question 39, I tell you that the low funding from the ESF, Mr State Secretary and the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, should be compensated by means of the compensation tax fund. Here too, there's a more direct way, but I'll tell you. On questions 40 and 40a, I give you the answer that, in accordance with the provisions of the Employment of Disabled Persons Act, all service providers who employ more than 24 employees are obliged to hire a favored disabled person on each 25 employees. If, for any reason whatsoever, a service provider does not, or does not fully comply with this obligation, he shall pay a compensation tax. In 2005 – I mention this data because it is not yet available for 2006 because the review takes place afterwards – 15 711 service providers in Austria were subject to statutory recruitment requirements. A total of €78 million was taken up in compensation taxes, significant resources flowing from the economy for social contracts, for social benefits. It would be better for us if they were not to flow and if the obligation of recruitment were to be observed to an even greater extent. However, these funds are used very well for the purpose of occupational inclusion of people with disabilities. To further optimize the system, the existing good system, the government programme provides for an examination of the possibility of a progressive element in the compensation tax regime. In the preparation and evaluation of the corresponding model, the social partners, as in so many questions, where they are again – and I am pleased about it – gaining a great deal of weight, being well used, and we are grateful for this expertise. Answer to question 41: In order to continue the employment offensive agreed in the government programme, which is a good instrument, that is a good initiative, that is why I say continuation of this employment initiative, I have been commissioned to prepare a strategy paper on the occupational integration of people with disabilities, which, taking into account future foreseeable developments, sets proactive targets, target groups and measures and, as far as possible, provides financial support. You can ask in Salzburg how I have fulfilled this task, as the social responsibility officer, to provide the necessary financial resources, in Salzburg. You can trust that I will do so with the same tenacity, with the same conviction, with the same commitment and based on common programmes in my new role as Federal Minister for Social Affairs. Answer to question 42: Although the extension of the voluntary social year is not explicitly mentioned in the government programme, this does not exclude inclusion in the considerations as a sector measure. I have already made such considerations in this direction as the Landesrat in Salzburg not only, but also realized, and I can do so with the appropriate reasons as the Federal Minister. They ask if I will change the current CI, Corporate Identity, of the Social Ministry. – Well, you are asking, because in recent years such changes have obviously been very severe, with considerable financial effort. I would like to follow up a consensusal, jointly formulated, modern social policy that will be directed towards the future and invite all the social speakers of the political groups to discuss, to support it. The change in corporate identity plays a very small role in my considerations. The effect is important in humans, that is the decisive thing. And to help here I invite all people of good will across parties – and all of them in the House – very, very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am not currently planning employment of external consultants and I promise you, if the need exists in the future and I am going to award such orders, I will remain far below the lattice you have put here with full hands. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My hands will be small when it comes to external consultants, and will be big when it comes to services for those affected. On Question 45, I can answer that the reform of the main association is closely linked to the development of the regional health telephone. I am concerned with the possible reform, in particular, of bringing regulations that have led exclusively to the shift of power within the bodies, when there is the possibility of illuminating, analysing, bringing them to an objective level, so that decisions in the main association can be made quickly and efficiently and implemented. This too should not be a way of playing for party-tactic considerations, but rather an institution which should implement as well as possible social policy measures for the people concerned in Austria. On question 46: The interpretation of this wording must first deal with the currently foreseeable European legal requirements in the field of consumer rights. Here, in the Green Paper announced for January 2007, the European Commission proposed the principle of maximum harmonisation for consumer law as a whole. This prohibits Member States from providing for national stricter rules in favour of consumers. I see the danger of levelling down, but I want to do everything in my ability to prevent that. And in my view, a maximum harmonisation would certainly not lead to a takeover of all these specific regulations. It is also foreseeable that the European Commission wants to anchor the introduction of the principle of mutual recognition in consumer law. This, in turn, would mean that, in the case of cross-border transactions, entrepreneurs have the opportunity to agree for them more favourable provisions of the country of origin of the entrepreneur in the contract. This could and would increase the legal uncertainty of consumers. Entrepreneurs with easier access to information and law could be preferred on one side. So there is still a very critical discussion and development. In particular, it is important to review these developments in European law for Austrian conditions and, in all contexts, to achieve a reasonable balance between the different interests of market participants. The generally weaker starting position of consumers should be taken into account. In support of the Lisbon process, attention must be paid to the functioning of the market and to improving the functioning of the system in so far as consumers are sufficiently strengthened in order to avoid endangering the balanced system, the balanced system. I am convinced that this principle of balanced consideration of interests will be in the interests of all, including in the interests of the economy. I would like to comment on the further concrete projects, if you allow them to stop going into detail, because it could be too long. I would like to say to Question 47, Mr Klubobmann, that I intend to reintroduce the report on the situation of consumers, which was regularly drawn up between 1992 and 2000, in an extended form and also to forward it to the National Council. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, the former Minister of Justice, Dr. Böhmdorfer, has closed this report. The new Minister for Social Affairs, Dr Buchinger, will try to re-establish it. In particular, the Socialist Group and the Greens have repeatedly called for such a new edition in recent years. I would therefore like to meet these wishes and demands, but this report allows a comprehensive insight into the problems of consumers across all sectors, and it can and will be an important basis for efficient consumer policy and an important source of information for decision-makers here in the House. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you allow, Mr Klubobmann, I come to the last question, Question 48. It says: ‘By way of derogation: What does Mrs. Silhavy do?" [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We would like to know!]] I wonder at the word “absolute ” in a urgent request. “Other” means: by the way and if otherwise nothing is. In a urgent request, I would have meant, one deals with the urgent problems of the country and the people. Whether what Mrs Silhavy is doing is really the most urgent question of the people in Austria, I dare to doubt. By the way: I'm not responsible for that either.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10966	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. First of all, Mrs Haubner is speaking. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10993	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr Sozialminister, Minister of the New Government! I believe that we have seen today that in future a new style of responses will also come in the future, that a minister will not answer a very simple question, which tasks will be taken from the Ministry of Social Affairs to another ministry. [[Intervocational calls]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The minister doesn't even know what to do! It's embarrassing!]] And we can now argue about what Mrs Silhavy's duties are. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] I think the House is entitled to an answer here, because in the end I remember just coming from your group, how unnecessary state secretaries are and what tasks they have. Here we can ask very well. I think it's also a new style when a minister says when answering a question: I am sure the former Minister and the former Secretary of State know this too. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A naughtiness, such a thing!]] So here, I think, we should be a little more cautious in dealing with Parliament – and I myself have experienced how critical the opposition was in relation to the government at that time –, Mr Minister. Perhaps – I don't know – it's so common in the state government in Salzburg. I also come from a state government, namely the Upper Austrian, has been here for some time, but that has not happened to us. However, I would also like to point out, Mr Minister, that: On the other hand, I welcome the answer to some of the questions, because I believe it is necessary, in a government programme, in a social government programme which is so inconspicuous that is so superficial, that it is so non-binding, to get quite specific answers to certain questions. I am pleased when you say that the pension system is one of the best in the world. I just wonder why your group has been talking about “pension harvesting” for many months. I am glad that you say that the heavy work regulations will not be abolished, that you do not remember to set up a working group. Here is certainly an additional possibility. But in connection with the 30 working groups, I believe it is no longer a matter of reference to this working group. I am also pleased that you have clearly said that the disabled billions will continue to be used for the employment offensive, that you will not rule out the fact that the voluntary social year will continue to be here in the future and that there will be new ones. But in total, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, I must say that in the social sector, there is still flaw in the area of competence and tasks. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's exactly what you say...!]] The important area of generations, the important area of families, youth and seniors comes to the health and women resort. That, I believe, is a step backwards, a step backwards from a policy that has made clear statements on generation policy in recent years. I do not think so if the seniors are in a different place than the youth, for example, and if the families and the youth are in another place. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] It's strange that the men stay with you. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A completely unimaginable minister! He doesn't know anything! I don't know!]] What do the men eventually have to do with social security? I think they would also belong to this package. Smooth, I have already said that it is mainly non-binding to see. But I must admit one thing to you, Minister – perhaps the Minister who comes from national governments has the same way –: That you are of an impressive honesty. I was able to see this today when reading the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten”. It says there – you say it quite honestly – that responsibilities are not optimal what seniors and men are getting. The government programme also states that a referendum is announced on a new care model. But they say that this is rather unlikely. The care insurance – and I am pleased – is more skeptical of you in this interview. And my clubman has already said that the “hackler regulation” will be limited to this legislative period, and you are quite clearly saying that an indefinite extension is not necessary. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, are we making policies here for legislative periods or for generations? – I think that’s a step back! I mean, fairness and social warmth mean not only a need-based minimum guarantee. I am very glad that you distance yourself from your original approach of a basic security of €800, because just a basic security of €800 is something that does not fit into an active social system today. Therefore, I say that, of course, fairness and social warmth also mean increasing the care allowance – not only once in a legislative period. I don't know what you mean by "selective". I have to say that's a word that I'm afraid of a little bit, when the care money is selectively increased. [[Abg. Riepl: How often have you increased the care allowance?]] We have raised it once and we have been constantly beaten by you, my dear colleague. You asked why we didn't valorize every year. So please leave the things in the village where they belong. For me, fairness and social warmth also mean that the drivers are not burdened by a truck toll and an increase in the mineral oil tax, because the commuters, as you know, have all the family, and there are in about two million counterparts in Austria, which are particularly hard affected by it. [[Abg. Oillinger: But not from the truck toll!]] The BZÖ applies to us: permanent valorization of the care allowance, cost reduction in health care and no increase in health insurance contributions, and full tax deductibility of commuting costs for those who need it. Ladies and gentlemen! A great disappointment – you have now made it something concrete – is for me what is contained in this government programme on care. Not only that the election promise has been broken up care money increase, no, it is, I honestly say, a collection of ideas, gathered from various working groups, in order to set up a new working group. I don't understand. Before the election, there was a working group in the Ministry, but also a working party under the leadership of ÖVP and SPÖ, and it was said that this was the basis for a future government programme. That's why I'm asking: Why has this government programme not set out some very specific areas of action, such as prevention to prevent the need for care? There's nothing left to hear about the security for the elderly. Why is it not established that care at home is the most important care service of the country, the nation, and that we must continue to build on the need to relieve caring relatives? Why is there nothing specific about day care? We need to expand day care. Why is the positive model of the care check not mentioned here? I also miss the concrete opportunities for young and older workers in this future industry. Why is there nothing about a teaching profession inside? Why does – you answered – not say anything about the voluntary social year inside? If I could give you advice, I'd say: In connection with your work, invest more energy now in concrete solutions to the problem of care and care shortage than in little thought out solutions to legalize and force foreign employment, which ultimately discriminates against domestic care and caregivers. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Because you did it at the time!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e11174	The motion for a resolution which has just been drawn up has been tabled, is also sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e11261	The next item is the speech by Mr Haberzettl. Desirable time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e11282	Madam President. Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Members of the Government! Dear Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler, I will not deny you the answer to your question, but I would ask you if you read the Government Convention, read it completely. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I did!]] The possibility of termination is very likely for apprentices, but under certain conditions [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: So far it has not been planned!]] A mediation procedure must be followed, and a replacement workplace must be provided – a two-way notice in the Government Convention. I would like to point out that the Government Convention also provides a further indication, in the course of the training policy, that, according to the apprentice Blum, central training facilities must be situated. I think there are conditions here to create this opportunity. Mr Klubobmann, allow me to say: It is a task of representing interests not to deny realities. But you refuse with your claim that, if it is said to be, apprentices are being shoved out. We want to limit this possibility and make reasonable replacements. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Klubobmann, one more comment: If the list of your achievements corresponds to reality, I wonder why in recent times more and more people have come near the poverty line, then I wonder why a new federal government under the title of poverty reduction must decide on a whole package of measures, where the first steps by the Minister of Social Affairs have already been taken towards minimum security. The increase in the compensatory allowance rate is also mentioned here. Further steps have already been described by the Minister of Social Affairs. But I also want to look a little bit into the past, because I think that we will then also come to the consequences of the past. I think it is obvious that in the past, especially the BZÖ has repeatedly prevented many proposals for improvement and initiative of the opposition, postponed in the committees, and thus led to an ad absurdity and thus prevented very substantial social improvements, particularly in the social field. [[Abg. Scheibner: Which one, for example? Tell me what!]] However, I should also like to remind you that in 2003 the biggest achievement of the BZÖ policy was a pension reform draft, which would have meant a deterioration of up to 60 percent for employees in the pension sector. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Mr Klubobmann, take note at least today: Only the fact that people were on the streets at the time and that strikes were made by the trade union movement has prevented you from implementing this pension reform. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] High house! Dear Mr Klubobmann! It becomes interesting when it comes to the question of why the subject of work is located in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I do it very simply: because you gave it there in 2000, Mr Westenthaler! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: They didn't want it back!]] You have agreed, with the greatest possible use of your possibilities, that the field of work will land in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and it is very difficult to bring it back to where it would belong. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Well, do you like that? Do you agree?]] And then on the subject of financing, because you have also put on the table the subject of truck charges, mineral oil tax increase. Mr. Klubobmann! Unfortunately, I have to remind you that in all areas where your ministers have worked in the past, there are disastrous financial conditions, for example in the balance of family expenses – which is not only eliminated, but it is indebted to more than one billion euros, and the trend up to 2010 is set at over 3 billion. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But that's not true!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Because it's better for the families!]] If you look at the area of infrastructure, you get the eye and ears. In the area of railway infrastructure, your minister has left behind 7 billion indebtedness! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How high is the union's debt? How many debts do you have?]] At the Asfinag an even higher indebtedness – the Asfinag is actually at the limit of its existence. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: When trade unionists talk about this, it's cool!]] In reality, I do not think we should ask why funding is needed. Mr Klubobmann, one thing is obvious – the Minister of Social Affairs has said this, and I would like to stress it: It's going to be 1. In January 2008, a reorganisation in the area of disability pension must be introduced, because there are also very serious injustices there. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: shorts?]] The “hackler regulation” or a similar solution will be necessary for longer than 2007, to which we confess. And I would say that the heavy worker regulation, Mr. Klubobmann, has been so unsuccessful that it is almost ridiculous. There are only seven applications, because the regulation is simply a Murks! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's why she's going on!]] Mr Klubobmann, I would put it this way: You sit in the glass house – throw Please don't use stones!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e11483	The next item is the report by Mr Amon. Desirable time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e11505	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haberzettl, do not be angry, but: It's a bit cool to say that Klubobmann Westenthaler is to blame for the fact that the working days are not in the Social Ministry, but in the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour. – You may be there because Martin Bartenstein has made the labour market policy very successful. That's why they're there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We thank God also since the summer made the trend change on the labour market, with a good, offensive labour market policy programme – €285 million have flown in this area – and this programme is being pursued offensively so that this trend change continues. The aim remains, as Vice-Chancellor Molterer said today, full employment, Ladies and gentlemen, full employment by 2010, which is the most important social policy measure that can exist at all. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The government programme – that is why I understand the urgent request made by the BZÖ today – does not contain a very comprehensive part of labour market policy, social policy, but also builds almost interconnectedly on the previous government policy, in all areas, in pension security, as well as in active labour market policy. That is why I do not fully understand the urgent issues today, because you are questioning a little of your own social policy, for which you have no reason at all, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No, I said it!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I said at the beginning!]] This programme contains a number of measures which, I believe, are very useful. We define the minimum wage, for example, by means of a minimum wage of €1 000 to be negotiated by the social partners. In the field of youth employment, for example, we have explicitly mentioned the education guarantee up to 18 years – an important measure especially for young people who find no work or who are struggling. We acknowledge that the very successful Blum-Bonus will be further extended – I believe, an important measure – as well as the expansion of care provision. Finally, however, it is also about ensuring the pension system in the form that the pension reform we have made continues to exist. In the end, we have – I think this is particularly important, especially with regard to intergenerative justice and with regard to the question that we want to support the fact that women can also opt for children – for example, we have written further improvements to the pension assessment in the Coalition Convention in the child rearing times. Now I come to an important point, which has already been the subject in today's debate – Mr Sozialminister Buchinger has addressed it comprehensively – namely the issue of combating poverty on the one hand and the intense debate on what is called basic security on the other. As an Austrian People's Party, we have expressed ourselves relatively clearly against basic protection without work, because it is already very problematic and certainly not in the sense of Christian social doctrine that there is a basic income without work – the pension now excludes – in the long term, because work is part of the meaningful fulfillment of life, and therefore an income without work in the long term is also directed against the dignity of the individual. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, a basic income without work would never find the agreement of the People's Party. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why, in the very interesting negotiations with Mr Buchinger, this need-oriented minimum guarantee has also come about. We have agreed here in the House that we will introduce something like a minimum pension, for example, at the pensions with the €726. I think that's a very reasonable measure. However, in the Coalition Convention, we have also known that we are talking about net replacement rates by means of unemployment benefit, unemployment insurance, and not automatically about €726 here also as an unemployment benefit, because this would actually result in a wealth of injustices if someone could suddenly get out of the unemployment allowance to a higher income than he has received with employment. That would not be fair, and that would not be fair to those who work, of course, not to argue. In addition, I believe that is also important in terms of unemployment and social support, of course, we have also focused on the question of willingness to work. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parent]] It is already about the fact that someone who comes into the undoubtedly difficult situation of unemployment must, of course, be supported. This must be helped, through further training, through training measures, also financially, but of course the claim of society must remain, that someone who comes into this situation wants to return from himself to the work process and does not put himself in the much quoted social hammock here. [[Abg. Oillinger: What trainings?]] I think this is an important point. And that is why it is also all right to become fairer and more practical in terms of the rules of availability, that jobs should also be accepted, which actually exist in the area and in the region. Sometimes jobs are offered here, which are not available on the spot. And then, of course, someone gets hurt, I think, on his hand. Coming to the end: With all the social justice and social fairness that are necessary, and with all the social assistance we all fight for to make it easier for those fellow citizens who find it difficult to live, one must not, I believe, be overlooked: All the funds allocated here must first be generated! That is why, of course, the focus of policy must also be on ensuring the economic location, promoting the willingness and discharge of citizens who are willing and able to do so, so that we can also afford a social system and that a good social system continues to be eligible for funding.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e11597	The next item is the speech by Mr Oellinger. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e11618	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear spectators! Dear High House! I'd like to tell you: Some of these new circumstances are still in need of habit! Mr Westenthaler, if, for example, a representative of the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Germany accuses of betraying its principles, I must hold or ask: In 2000, when the Social Ministry was handed over, who has allowed the agendas to take away labour market, labour law and labour inspection, or has given them away? Who was it, then, if not the FPÖ or the BZÖ, which in 2003 also removed the agendas of health and a good part of the agendas of social security from the social sector? – That was the FPÖ or the BZÖ! Who was it who wanted to explain to us as a Social Minister in 2003 that what was negotiated in the area of pensions with the ÖVP is a great success, even though pension cuts from 30 to 50 percent were included? I'm still good at it: It was Mr. Head of State. He made himself and said: That's great! That's the best! – And only the broad public protest has caused you and the ÖVP to take back these pension reductions – at least in part –. That's how it looks, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are obviously the red defender of duty!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Who is it, then, who wrote into the Intergovernmental Agreement in 2003 that there should be a minimum wage of €1,000 for all workers and then did nothing? – Don’t talk about the social partners now, because you could have talked to them too! Now going here and criticizing this is good and right! That's what I'm saying! The SPÖ does not need to continue to be cleared. That's what we're holding. However, I consider it intolerable – and also a huge problem, Mr Social Minister! – that the Social Democracy, which a Social Ministry has already, as I have just described it, has been split up, and now also voluntarily participates in the fact that the Social Ministry still has fewer competences. I would like to explain this to you, and there is no need to go back to this state-of-the-art dispute between the economy and employment or the Ministry of Social Affairs. I would like to explain the whole thing to you in the example of the accident problem complex: The Ministry of Economic Affairs is responsible for preventing or controlling accidents. The Social Ministry is not responsible for preventing accidents and the corresponding payment – that is, partly for the same – but for the Ministry of Health. And only in the case of those accidents, through which victims of accidents have become pensioners, is the Ministry of Social Affairs responsible. So one now connects with the Ministry of Social Affairs something completely different than it actually is. The Social Ministry is only more responsible for pensioners, care and disabled people. You may also be responsible for consumer protection. In this regard, Mr Federal Minister, Your answer is disappointing or you have forgotten the answer. We would have liked to know whether you are really responsible or not! But now, just a short while back to the destination question, because this is fundamentally about a lot. The current segmentation in the social sector through the ministerial competences does not do well for social policy. You know, I know, and some others know that too! It's not supposed to make cheap polemics, because that's a fact! The fact that social democracy in these government negotiations has committed itself to buying off the rest of social policy is a major failure! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I come back to a subject that I have already mentioned: Minimum wage. – In 2003, this was held in the government programme, but nothing happened. The BZÖ didn't do anything either. But now we already have 2007, and you all agreed to each other and say: We will now implement the 1 000 €. To that end, I say: Oh, my God! We have 2007, and the €1,000, which was already too little as a minimum wage, should now be counted at least €1 100! Mr. Federal Minister, please do not work again with these amounts of 1 100 € or 1 200 €! Instead, let's go over to hourly wages, because that would be an honest description of what you have to do! At 1 100 € or 1 200 € you can't determine whether this is for 35, for 38, for 40 or even for 45 hours! Why don't we use the hourly wage as a basis of calculation? Then we'd see that 1 000 € really aren't enough! But then we would also see – and I ask you to take this suggestion, Minister of State! – that, for example, the municipality of Vienna in the area of snow clearing for day wages still pays only € 5 at night! Oh, my God! Oh, my God! Where are we? If so, we should conduct this debate honestly in the field of minimum wages! And there will obviously be that 5 € is definitely too little, no matter if you charge this amount to 45, 40 or 38 hours! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Another point, unfortunately, has also been raised too little, namely the area of apprentices. I am not taking up the debate on scholarships now, although I would be delighted if the Federal Chancellor were now behind me. However, I limit myself to the apprentices. They have agreed to facilitate termination. I am skeptical about the employment effect to be achieved. But whether it's about it: That's an agreement. But I ask you a question, Mr Federal Minister or Mr Bundeskanzler: The firms receive premiums for the training of apprentices when they do training, and these are also declared as such. My question: Does a farm keep the premium even if someone is cancelled? Should we not also discuss what is going on with the premiums? I see that it is a questionable responsibility for a company when it comes to a difficult youth. Not all young people are the same, and the level of training between the different occupations is also different. We know from the past few years that there has been a considerable amount of funding by the federal, state and local authorities. But the funding was of course also linked to the fact that the company actually supports the apprentices and, as it were, carries through, as admittedly, difficult three years. But what happens to the promotions if that doesn't work? You have to talk about it, as I mean! I am of course particularly interested in another point raised by Mr Amon. I am no longer holding this debate, which is also being held by the FPÖ. Mr. Strache! They were in the Vienna election campaign themselves once for basic security! You used to say: Yeah, I'm for that! [[Abg. Street: Yes, for people who do something too!]] But what I am no longer holding out now is the accusation that this basic mini security, which you are now proposing, should, so to speak, be a temptation to unemployment! What are we talking about? Let me give you the examples: We are talking about women who receive 400 € or 500 € emergency aid. That's all they get, because women don't get any more emergency aid on average! With this mini security now coming, maybe 50 € will be added for the woman. But if a woman has already welcomed the fact that Federal Minister Buchinger has now promised a basic guarantee of €726, but that it is wrong to live in an apartment, she may not even get a euro or a cent more if examined! It can't have been! On the part of the ÖVP it is said again and again: We don't want to take people out of work somehow. You know, or we both know what we're talking about. What women are concerned about this? It is about women who are single-parents, who have two, three or four children to care for, who have worked before and would like to work again, but which, of course, is not easily organized with all care obligations. And here you go and say, These are the blackbergers! You have to take that away from them! – This debate is absurd! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] On the other hand, say They also impertinently: They're supposed to take on work! – Like you or anyone would make a contribution to this! Do you hear it yourself in the political debates? That's what it says: It would be nice to give these people a job! But then, on the other hand, you shouldn't say: We as politicians are not at all there to do work! Take You are on your own, and then you will find that you have to conduct certain debates differently!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e11700	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Strache. Desirable time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e11722	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Valuable Minister! The question of the lack of confidence in social democracy in social policy is certainly justified. At the beginning, however, I would also like to say that a little bit of the impression arises that we have to experience today a certain melancholy of oranges crying red and water because they now had to move out of the ministries and have lost all the benefits: Bluelights on the service weights are no longer available. The highway vignette is gone. All this is painful. I understand! But if one turns out and rightly condemns the betrayal of the SPÖ at its electorate, then, as I mean, one must start with himself first and take one's own nose. – I say: Dr. Haider, Ing. Westenthaler and Dr. Gusenbauer give their hands! Unfortunately, all of them have committed betrayal of God to their electorate, and they have also been presented with the bill! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, it hurts when you address this, but I still address it because it is ultimately right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] But now back to the social conscience of social democracy: There has been a breach of confidence in the electorate in many areas. We have here x-fold discussed the pensioner question. It's getting wiped away all the time! But one has to stress this: Net pensions of €1 215 per month have ultimately lost €93 in purchasing power until 2006! Thus, there have been losses for years, and it has not been adjusted for years. [[Abg. May. Worm: You were there!]] For years, the previous government has failed to do this! However, you hardly had the chance to make up for this, you played in this betrayal to the pensioner and made only 1.6 percent possible! That is exactly what you have to urge, because it is not socially politically responsible to finish the pensioners under the inflation rate, so to speak, and then wonder when there is a sluggish impoverishment! You can't be surprised if the cost of living continues to rise and especially those people who have done something for a lifetime can afford less and have problems paying for the electricity, gas and rent! This is your lack of social responsibility! It's about this one! Minimum pensioners have met me in the election campaign, women and mothers who have raised two, three or four children and have even made 36, 37 to 38 years of social security contributions, but with 450 € pension so to speak. That hurts you in your heart! It really hurts you that there are even people in Austria who are treated or fed with such a pension. [[Abg. May. Worm: That's why it's good that the SPÖ is back in the government now!]] I would have expected you to counter that very thing! But you didn't do anything! That's why you have to hold very cynically: Dr. Gusenbauer cannot be accused of possession of power, for he has no power today as chancellors. If, then, it's a possession of office, and obviously the appearance is more important to him than being. In this context, one might also try Karl Marx: In the case of German chancellor Gusenbauer, the appearance clearly determines consciousness. Otherwise, it's not worth it. Let us look at all the social-political breaks of trust! Where is it, please, poverty reduction? We find poverty today at both young and old! Today, there is poverty among young people who are looking for an apprenticeship for school, but find no one and have no chance to go somewhere. And then you go here and you also abandon the cancellation protection of apprentices instead of changing the obsolete provisions in the apprenticeship field today! Then today, for example, one should have changed the provision for a carpenter that, if he is waiting, he should also come up with the dirt and not, as it is regulated today, do not have to come back to it. That's ridiculous rules! There are countless examples of this, up to the baker, who is not allowed to deliver his cakes which he has baked, and who, if the teacher buys them, can go to the union and then be supported by the union. – These are the nonsense of why entrepreneurs today are not or are less willing to take in more apprentices! And then relax the termination protection! That's exactly the wrong way! They abandon these young people who need our protection! That's the way it goes. I'm not talking about all the burdens that'll come. I already said this today: 3 billion € in savings measures can be found in government programmes, which can be read. And that will not be savings, but that will be additional burdens on people. We know from Eurofighter that you will have to pay this. In fact, they have not made sure that in the end there will be a change and that other social initiatives will be possible. In the care sector, you have participated in what we have criticised in the election campaign, namely in the legalisation of illegal nursing staff. You did everything you could, without exception, over a comb, without thinking of a corresponding certificate of competence and thus also of the Austrian nurses who are poor. They are being suppressed and are subject to wage dumping. You're always talking about a crisis. But if you look at the care professions in the field of training, then it is clear that, for example, 500 young people each year in the Styria apply for training in the care sector, but 250 are rejected because it is said that there are not so many young people there! On the one hand, we are constantly hearing that there is a crisis in this profession, but if our young Austrians want to learn this profession, then they are rejected! Something's wrong! And that's exactly what it's all about! You played with the group tax. Where is your social responsibility here to change something? This goes until they are not ready to ensure an immediate increase in the care money! In the end, too, you hesitated to go out again and only started working groups. The basic security was also addressed. Mr Oellinger, yes, I am in favour of a basic guarantee if people can also expect and expect a Community benefit for this basic security. For this I am, but not for an unemployed basic income. There is the difference between our group and yours. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you expect a minimum wage of € 1,000 today, calculate it once, which means net! This is not much more than this basic security, which you plan as an unemployed basic income! What is a half-day power to work for today? What is an auxiliary worker to go to work for? What is a Billa salesman supposed to do when she goes to unemployment and receives a basic guarantee of €726? That's ghastly! You also have to be critical and question that! This is a blow to the face for hardworking people who work! They want a broken wage and not as low wages as they are paid today! And if people pay taxes, they also want to know for sure that those who want and need our social assistance and support can also demand them, but they are also willing to do something for the community. It's a give and take. You need to discuss over and about a just distribution key. Very short on the tuition fees: That too is a social question. Quality is not secured, but is collected. There are also systems in Austria, as in Innsbruck, in which 1 000 points are awarded for economic studies, and students must then set points like on the speculation market so that they can participate in any lecture. There are 500 points for a lecture and 500 points for a second, and someone may have bad luck and can't attend a lecture in a semester because he hasn't set enough, but still has to pay tuition fees. There's that in Innsbruck! There are cases at Austrian universities where one must wait twelve to 18 months for an examination. The quality must be improved, and that is why I say: The tuition fees in today's form are abolished because they have actually done nothing about what was promised, but rather the opposite. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I come to a conclusion: Whoever believed that the weather capitals that we are currently experiencing are the only thing that is currently absurd, has been taught a better one today, because the government capitals we are currently experiencing are even more absurd than the weather capitals. And if you compare Dr. Gusenbauer as a German chancellor with his predecessors Vranitzky and climate, you have to say: That was in comparison to him precisely social revolutionaries! – That’s what you must find disappointing. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Prehauser: An exaggeration!]] But with that you will have to live, and you will have to explain to people why you have finally fallen into all these areas, why you have not had the courage to change something. Today, with a request for a sample of nails at the tuition fees.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e11829	It has now been referred to by the Federal Chancellor. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e11850	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I thought that after Mr Klubobmann Strache and Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler had answered the urgent question in detail. But your last speech, Mr Klubobmann Strache, has prompted me to ask you the following questions: Do you think that an increase in the minimum pension – the compensation allowance – is more than 5 per cent, resulting in the fact that no pensioner and no pensioner will have a pension below the poverty line in Austria being a social scandal? - I don't think so. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Reverse! Parliament is asking, not the Minister or the Chancellor!]] [[Abg. Strache: I didn’t talk to you about that!]] I believe that this is an essential social policy progress. There are only three countries across the European Union where no pensioner and no pensioner live below the poverty line. [[Abg. I don't think you're right. Wrong!]] We should be proud of this and not use it to insure people in our country! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, when it comes to the pension level: You are right that there has been a loss of purchasing power of pensioners over the last few years, but we note that the increase in pensions that has now taken place means that all pensioners pay the price of the pensioner and the difference from the pensioner price index has been distributed socially, fairly and fairly to the different income groups. That is, everyone gets at least the rate of inflation paid and a one-off payment, and that in times when social policy in this government is in the foreground again. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] On the contrary, we try to give pensioners what they need in order to be able to realize dignity in old age. That's what we think is important. Thirdly, They say that there is a sluggish impoverishment of pensioners. – One has to imagine: in a situation where not only the inflation rate is paid, but where there is an additional payment, where the minimum pensions are disproportionately increased disproportionately, to talk about a slender impoverishment of pensioners! [[Abg. Blow: Not even the inflation rate!]] [[Abg. It's not going to pay off the inflation rate! That's the point!]] That's where I have to tell you: I am sorry that you are trying to reassure a large part of the population in our country, which is not justified because today more than ever before is being done for pensioners in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If you are talking about essential questions of supply, I will tell you: Who will be the main beneficiaries of the regulation we have made in the field of health? – Recipe self-retentions will be limited to 2% of monthly income. This does not mean more than €20 for a pension of €1,000. [[Abg. Street: 450 €...!]] Shall I tell you something? – I have met many older women who do not earn €1,000, but who have to spend more than €100 per month of self-reservation for recipes, and who save themselves with this scheme over €80 and sometimes even €100 per month. [[Abg. Strache: You have introduced the self-retaining!]] I understand this by social fairness for pensioners in our country! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] When you talk about it – and I have listened closely to you! – which type of minimum guarantee You agree, and which one, I would invite you: & Sign It is the Government Convention, because it is precisely there that there is a need-oriented minimum guarantee which will then be applied if the person concerned has the willingness to work, to train or to engage in a non-profit activity! [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Abg. Strache: There is no performance!]] [[Abg. Street: The willingness! But you don't want it! You need to fix it!]] That is, Mr. Strache: Read the government programme, return and sign government programme! We are very pleased with your support for our good proposals. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As far as your statement is concerned, the youth would be impoverished: Well, that would be exactly our concern to say that the 15-year-olds should not be on the street. This is why there is a guarantee of training until the 18th century. Year of life. Either a youth is in a school or he is in a teaching, or he is in another educational measure, whether it be in a teaching workshop or some other measure. This ensures that no one is on the streets, that the dangers of hopeless young people are reduced by alcohol and drugs, and that every youth in our country has a training perspective. – This is the best way to combat poverty and the lack of opportunity in Austria! I say again: If this is your concern, sign the government program! [[Abg. Strache: That would be a mistake! A serious mistake!]] It would bring us great joy. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It was debated by Mr. Ing. Westenthaler is not competent to ask the Minister of Social Affairs the question, for which the Secretary of State Silhavy is responsible. [[Abg. Dr Graf: This is the new parliamentaryism that you are no longer letting Members speak?]] You do not need to ask the question to the Minister for Social Affairs, you can ask it to me. I am also happy to answer the questions to you, and tell you that I have entrusted Mrs Silhavy with the matters of administrative reform and the affairs of the Bioethics Commission, in addition to the general representation of the Federal Chancellor in the field of regional policy, regional support. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (demonstrativ acclaiming) To do this, we need a State Secretary!]] In other words, if you are interested in the development of rural areas, in participating in the Austrian Spatial Planning Conference and in participating in regional funding, please contact the Secretary of State, she will be happy to receive you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12160	The next item is the speech by Mr Dolinschek. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12181	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Representatives of the government! High house! Mr. Federal Minister, the minimum guarantee – this has been seen when answering the urgent question – was, as it were, your “hobby”, your consent to the Federal Government – also during the negotiations. They have focused their attention on this. I have to say: In the past, in recent years, we have done some preliminary work on a need-oriented minimum guarantee, when we had the responsibility here in the High House and in the Federal Government when we increased the compensation allowances considerably. From 1999 to 2006, the compensation allowance for the single person was increased by €100, and the current increase in the compensation allowance for single person to €726, which is large in your government's programme, has still been decided by the old Federal Government. – That’s a fact! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This was a significant increase in social security in Austria, and I have to say: Mr Bundeskanzler, if you have spoken about social fairness, I can tell you that it is also a matter of interpretation, because there must be a certain difference between a minimum guarantee and a minimum wage, so that there is also an incentive to carry out a regulated work and pay contributions so that we can ensure the same in social policy, which is, of course, also a certain redistribution policy. Mr. Federal Minister for Social Affairs, however, I heard that you said that social security was not only a security of distribution, but it also played other components. I think this is very good because, of course, conditions need to be created in advance that this distribution can also be made, so that those people who do not have it so easily in life also get support in a social state like ours. Of course, this must also be kept in the house, and we should maintain this important aspect. I believe that a need-oriented minimum security – we are still looking at exactly how you will do that in detail – has a lot for yourself. However, it cannot be done in accordance with the principle of foundry, but there must be certain criteria, and above all there must be a difference to the minimum wage. If there is a minimum wage of €1,000 today, it will soon be obsolete, because that is € 1,000 gross, taxes are not paid for it, but if you calculate the social security contributions, you will get € 850. They come from the labour market service and know that: If you want to inform an unemployed person and he has higher travel costs at the workplace, then you also have to create a framework for him to reduce the cost of travel to 100 percent, because otherwise it is hardly possible that someone who continues to work and has higher costs will be paid for them. – But that must already be guaranteed, and of course it must also be taken into account. If I now look at the new government programme and recall the speeches of the Socialist Group in the past, I must say: It has always been spoken of by “Rentenklau” or “Pensionsklau” and of an unsocial pension reform that has been unfair and hostile to women. But if I look at this government programme, I have to say that this is basically a continuation of the programme of the last seven years. On the basis of the foreseeable and emerging developments, we have made a lasting change in the system to adapt it to the new challenges in order to be financially stable and sustainable, while at the same time ensuring social cohesion between the boys in working life and those in retirement, so that there is a certain balance between the young and the older. – That's what happened too. In contrast, when I look at the fact that one has said that pension harmonisation is now intended to continue, countries and communities should be included: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, If you had agreed to the harmonisation of pensions during the last period, the countries and communities would have already been involved, we would have needed a two-thirds majority. Isn't it? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The hacker rule is always mocked by you as a “murks”. – The trade unionist Haberzettl says: Hackler regulation, heavy-worker regulation – a big Murks. – That’s what one says that has led the union union into rupture! It's like this: But blame is always the others, never themselves! Everyone else is to blame, just as it was at the time in the pleite of the “consumer. ” - That's the way it is. But no one says that the hacker regulation and the heavy-worker regulation are up. – This does not happen because it is a good system because we have managed to break down certain transitions if there is not the possibility of early retirement for long periods of insurance. – For this, the hacker scheme is there, as the contribution times count. But you will probably know, Mr. Federal Minister, that today only 15 percent of the people entering the pension reach 45 years of insurance. The others used to go: Each year, 41 percent go to invalidity pension. That's what I'm looking at, how you want to fix the disability pension! You have a lot to do there. - That's not quite easy. But I also wonder how you want to do this in 2010: You either have an abrupt evil position for the other years that come along, or you continue to do so. – My view was always that we simply continue this hacker scheme moderately and don’t stop somewhere so you can adjust to it. The heavy worker regulation is also necessary because there are many people who have worked hard in their lives and who simply do not get to the contribution times, because heavy work has often been interrupted seasonally and replacement times have been attacked and therefore needs to be assessed differently. The follow-up of heavy work hours is only possible in the last part of the work. If you include the mortality rate, I'll be right. We discussed this in different working groups. – This was not always easy, because there are simply no records about it. That is why it is also the case that we have only been involved for the last 20 years, because there are just too few records in this area before. This also applies to other areas: The child - care allowance was also repeatedly defied, and it was said that it meant nothing other than women back to the stove. – Today, no one wants to abolish anyone from the esteemed ladies from social democracy, because it simply offers freedom of choice and because it is not linked to self-employed employment, but also to students, farmers and self-employed, which was not the case in the case of karenz money. [[Abg. May. Worm: Flexibility!]] – You want to make it flexible now, yes! [[Abg. May. Worm: Yes!]] They want to make it flexible. – I am always for flexibilization, but you also have to be careful where the flexibilization leads. [[Abg. May. Worm: That's exactly where we looked!]] Then do the women get less? – Currently, it looks like women with the 18 months of summa total would get less than now with the 30 months. It is necessary to create a system to motivate men to go more closely into father's care. You can only do that by removing the limit of trust. – That was always our topic. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You have the chance that more men will come to care for children, because then the income doesn't matter. [[Abg. May. Worm: That there is more chance!]] In the red union, on the other hand, at last create the same pay for equal work for women! Make it! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In pension and other areas, of course, it is always dependent on working life, how much someone gets in retirement. You have to create the conditions for income! [[Abg. Reheis: weren't you State Secretary? Why didn't you do that?]] – I do not work in the union as a high official, I am just a member! This is always bothering me in this area. [[Abg. May. Worm: You were the State Secretary!]] – Yes, I was the State Secretary, but there I worked for the care sector, for the disabled and for consumer protection. That's what I'm going to do now. The care sector, Mr Federal Minister, will certainly be a task that you will have to devote yourself to in the future, because there is simply an increasing need. On the one hand, the number of seniors is increasing, but of course also for those people who have already been born with a disability or who suffer from an accident or a disease – and no one is against it, even we must not; that can happen to anyone – simply be money there. We must take more money into our hands for these people in the future to dispel this problem! If I read now that there should be no valorization in the care money, then I am very sad about it, because we have made two increases – in 1995 and in 2005 by 2%. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: One!]] Of course, 1 percent increase costs € 15 million – and in the future it will be even more expensive! – but it is very simple that we take more money into our hands there. That people can also be cared for at home is very important. On disability policy, I would like to say the following: I would ask you to continue the employment offensive of the Federal Government, which has been introduced for people with disabilities. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] It is important that there is training and work assistance in this area. Continue with the disabled billions! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] This is very important in this area. - If you need anything: My support in this area will be You always have. To the consumer protection...
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12341	Mr President, you have already spent your 10 minutes speaking time. I can't give you an additional chapter anymore. I'm sorry. [[In the case of BZÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. Dolinschek.]] Next, Mrs Mag. All right, let's talk. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12371	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Dear Women Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today we are witnesses to a public supervision of the BZÖ. We note that the BZÖ is very heavy with the departure from government responsibility. Mr Dolinschek, our Minister for Social Affairs, Buchinger, has nothing to explain to you. He knows what's going to happen, and he's going to move on a little bit. [[Abg. Scheibner: The best pension system in Europe!]] Her representatives in recent years have been responsible for ambulance charges or for accident pension taxation. – And these are really just a few issues, because there were numerous strains, namely burden and deterioration in the social field. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] On the subject you once put on, namely, that you had abolished the interception hunters, I think: This too is a chapter in the history of time, and you will soon end this chapter in the history of time. Because that's why you've been selected: They were responsible in the social field for incompetence and for deterioration. . Now to show the whining forgetfulness paired with an expiry date, that, I think, will not take people away from you. [[Abg. Scheibner: Can you at least present your insults freely and not read them down?]] People don't forget. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who wrote this to you? – Thank God the television viewers don't see that!]] The comparison, ladies and gentlemen, makes sure. Today, some colleagues in your group have very dazzlingly shown that they have not even read the entire government programme. Of course, that's no wonder: The 2003 government programme had 42 pages – the current government programme has 180 pages. And this comparison makes us sure, because it is so that essential, important areas are covered here and that social issues are dealt with, changed and improved for people. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Call the BZÖ:More paper...!]] [[Abg. Blow: The Scriptures Are Greater!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the former governments, the Federal Social Offices were always reformed and abolished. Now we have determined that the Federal Social Offices are regarded as centres of competence for disabled people. This comparison makes us sure! We're making politics with our heads, we're making politics with our heads! [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Ing. Westenthal]] Mr Westenthaler! I'm glad you're having such a good conversation, but that simply shows your insanity. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No more with you!]] And I have to tell you: The results of the election, which you entered in the regional constituency of Vienna-South with 1.8 percent, also show that the comparison makes us sure where the social competence lies. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With regard to care, this government programme sets out a much more fundamental area: It is people's focus! – At BZÖ it was always the case that the orange was at the centre. Perhaps some colleagues can remember: There was once a new law on the equal treatment of disabled people on television. Since it was very important to the representatives of the BZÖ that the color orange also appears in the spots. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this shows what you have been doing, what was at the heart of politics for you. Ladies and gentlemen! With us, people are at the center! We take care of their concerns, and we want to go a little further in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The area of care is very essential. We want to initiate 24 hours of care and care, we stand for more mobile services, we are for better coordination between the providers and the responsible ones. [[Abg. Scheibner: Mr. Federal Chancellor, do you have no other...?]] – I know that you are not interested, we have seen this in the government policy of recent years. [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes, well, but if it was at least freely presented...!]] But we really want to work on it with seriousness! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A embarrassing appearance! – A parliamentary speech should be kept free!]] There are numerous specific considerations. On the other hand, they have only distributed checks in Carinthia and Styria, but they have not made any sense of people in need of care and their families. Ladies and gentlemen! We have the expertise, innovation and social considerations in political action. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: And you also have reading skills! You can read too!]] With us, seriousness is on the agenda, and we have a Social Minister who will carry out his task competently, on a lifelong basis!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12559	The next item is the report by Mr Mitterlehner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12581	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! When I heard this urgent request, I, ladies and gentlemen from the BZÖ, had the impression, in view of the statements made by Sigisbert Dolinschekshon in particular: Buchinger, the new minister, has made a request to you, and you have a right justification to present what you have done in recent years. - I don't think you need that. It was a good social policy! But of these 48 questions, I must say, I am quite disappointed, first of all quantitative, for: How do you feel about a new minister answering 48 questions within 20 minutes? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why not?]] There he has half a minute for every question! – Of course, he used 45 or 50 minutes. But the second thing I find even more problematic: There were questions that Mr Westenthaler turned around and said to Mrs Haubner: Is that true? because these questions could actually answer Mrs. Haubner. - And I don't quite see that. It may also make sense and purpose to make a urgent request to be on TV – that may be, that's a motive – but in content it surprises me. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Economic Federation as a defender of socialist politics!]] And, Mr Westenthaler, I have already found the most annoyed request that elections – because you are yelling out here right now – should be legally sanctioned. I mean, election promises have a quality, but political statements, you know them too. I know someone who kept saying: I'm gone – I'm back! and I also know someone who said: We'll take the hat, we'll say Adieu! [[Lively cheerfulness and condolences with the SPÖ and congratulation with representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... did it!]] So quality go, quality here. – But also what the In terms of content: I have to ask myself why you are, in fact, blaming Mr Sozialminister Buchinger in the introduction that work and the economy have not been separated. They themselves were in the Freedom Party at the time, and I think with good reason for this, because it shows: The unemployment rate has developed downwards, i.e. positive, and on the other hand, economic growth has gone up. It is right, it has a certain background that in this context business and work stay together. These are success figures which have developed accordingly in recent years and which have confirmed that this structural measure is correct! So I'd say a little more self-confidence would be appropriate. I don't understand this torment that you're showing a little bit. Secondly, I would like to address the content and clarify a few points from my point of view. Because, Mr Strache, you have addressed the problems of apprentices: It is now in the government agreement that there is a possibility of termination, and I would ask that this issue be discussed in a serious way, because this needs to be fully discussed. At the first moment, it really sounds like – you're not wrong – as if you'd better solve it now and have fewer apprentices. The opposite is the case, for a simple reason: At present, there is only one way to break down teaching contracts. And if you can't use this possibility practically – and in this development phase with a youth it is also possible that at the age of 15 to 18, or 19 in part, his attitude, his interests change – then you couldn't change it so far. That is why this instrument has now been included, because this situation has so far been an obstacle for firms to taking in apprentices. The apprentice remained in the holding after the probation period of three months until the end, and if not both were dissatisfied, there was no possibility of a resolution. Now there is the possibility to try to find a better place by means of mediation first – in the same company or in another company – and then a two-sided termination. This also applies to the apprentice! It can also cancel and on the other hand has the right to a training opportunity. – And don’t say now, we don’t take that seriously! [[Abg. Strache: I was an apprentice myself! – You don’t know what you’re talking about!]] We have implemented a project, with the participation of the Chamber of Commerce, also financially. [[Abg. Strache: I was an apprentice, in contrast to you! I know what I'm talking about!]] - I don't know what you did. This may be different for dental technicians. [[Abg. Strache: I quit at the time too!]] – I don’t know your quality; there will be any problem. But the background is that, in the final effect, more apprentices are trained accordingly in these 260 teaching professions and with the possibility of continuing/training – no less! Therefore: Measure this measure by what will happen in practice then! I don't understand one of them either: What you have done in the urgent request today is as if the government were working a day, and then ask the whole question: Everything has to be done in one day! – This is like at a press conference after four years, which you have asked everything today! And: As far as the question is concerned, it has not yet been decided and has not yet been financed. There's nowhere behind the big pot with money from which you just need to tap accordingly with one request! – Therefore: The apprentices' action is a very good measure. Second story: The basic guarantee, i.e. this basic income. [[Abg. Oils: Basic security!]] – No, basic income; let us stay with this one, Mr Ollinger. – That's what I have to say: I have heard with interest today: 1 100 € – that is actually the appropriate story – minimum wage, because we already had this in this direction in the government programme in 2003. [[Abg. Oils: Minimum wage...!]] – Yes: Minimum wage. If this were so simple that the social partners would decide on a general collective agreement with €1,000 and then they will pass through Austria at €1,000: Wonderful, then we decide 1 500, 2 000 €! – I mean, Minister, I would talk seriously about this story. Why? – After all, we have industry collective agreements, and the market has certain rules of play. And these rules do not happen by chance, but there is supply and demand in the market. If you think that 1 000 euros are at least appropriate, and if you even think you make a general collective agreement, then you should see the result. What's the result? Firstly, there are companies that do not make profits, about 80 000 or so of over 300 000. Therefore: They don't do it by fun that they can't pay so much. But most will increase prices! And if you increase prices, what happens? – Then there is inflation somewhere, and then there is a higher wage demands somewhere. And if all of this occurs cumulatively, what's the result? Perhaps I will really have a problem with globalisation, as Mr Van der Bellen mentioned today. I was also a little surprised that he saw globalisation as such a great danger. If we export more than 50 percent of the gross national product, we must not fear the whole globalisation so much. But if we put the wrong lever in motion there, I think we could make ourselves a fundamental problem. In conclusion: We do not really see the increase in social security contributions as very positive – but even more positive than if we had raised the maximum basis for contributions, because it would have happened exactly the same. It would also have gone up inflationary, and that would not have served the site. I am not of the opinion that, as has been said, social policy is only a question of the productivity factor – it is also, but essentially, a good social policy depends on a good economic and financial policy. And I believe both of them are safe. We should therefore wait for the next events, the implementations and not deal too much with the programme of these 48 issues.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12739	The next speaker is Mrs Mandak with a five-minute voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12760	Mr President. High house! Minister Buchinger! You have made it clear both in your first statement this morning and now in the reply to the question that care support and care for people of old is an important concern for you – which I personally am very pleased because I think that is really one of the very big political challenges that will come to us in the future. I immediately looked at this area when I got the government agreement. There are then such things inside as – I quote –: ‘Every care or care provider shall: Caregivers should be able to receive the best possible form of care according to their expectations. Care in their own four walls should be as possible as care in the home. The numerous possibilities of self- and family care, mobile care at home, round-the-clock care at home and cared for forms of housing,...’ and so on “... should be available as widely as possible.” Then there's still a lot inside about new expansions, promotions, further development. - Nice. Then I went to the budget path and thought to myself: Okay, now I'm curious how you've anchored this in the budget area. For one can write a lot; as long as one has not secured the cover, that will be nothing worth it. And there are 185 million € in the “Social Security” section in the budget path for 2007. You will only need € 156 million for pension measures that we have already decided on, and you will need € 25 million to change the family support you are planning – that is € 180 million together. And in the field of care support, care for old people and the whole area of childcare, the whole area of change of maintenance advance right – that is also inside this budget item – you are currently worth €5 million for this year, Minister, 5 million for this whole area! – That's what I thought: These all the demands you make in your government agreement are worth nothing and nothing if you do not have the budgetary coverage to do so! Then the words are beautiful and nothing else, statements of intent! I would be very interested in how you want to budget this, how you want to finance it all. In addition, you have savings in your budget path – so you call it, and then it says: minus €800 million from the countries in the coming years. – That means you will get €800 million from the countries. And do you know what are the most important areas of the countries and communities they pay with this money? – care for children, kindergartens, day offers for children, homes for old people, mobile care for old people. In other words, you have not only provided for any additional budget appropriations in the budget, but you have planned very clearly and very concretely to remove substantial funds from the countries and communities and thus to exclude precisely these entities from what they urgently need in order to introduce the necessary improvements in the social field. I wonder, How are you supposed to do it? – I criticize the vehement and cannot imagine how it should work. You said in your answer to the question, the durability of care needs to be ensured. I wonder, From whom does it have to be ensured? Of the people concerned themselves? So means Your model that the persons concerned need to take care of themselves with a private care insurance scheme so that they can be cared for once in the event of the need for care? What does that mean? And I think you, as a Social Democratic minister, need to know what this means to many people with small incomes. I think of all the single parents, but also of the families with several children. It is not possible to afford an additional care insurance. Or do you want it as you have stated in the Government Convention: ‘More costs must be paid in solidarity through contributions from potential beneficiaries’? That is, all those who pay social security will have to pay it. Your government statement does not say that you also want to transfer money from, for example, capital income, income, if you have a lot of money. That's totally missing! And that would have been sources of funding, especially for the care sector. I believe that there have been very, very important points missing in this government agreement. I am happy to be willing to cooperate when it comes to looking for technical solutions, but I am very excited to see how these major future issues can be financed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12825	The next speaker is Mr Kickl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12846	Mr President. Dear gentlemen, stayed on the government bank after 5 p.m. Whoever comes too late punishes life. [[Abg. Parnigoni: But we only have a very normal urgent! That is no longer necessary than the competent minister.]] Well, in the case where the BZÖ is concerned, you should actually say: Whoever comes too late punishes the voters. And so we got it on 1st. It was also experienced October. Because somehow this quote fits very well with the request you have made today. I mean, I already admit, Mr Scheibner – Mr Westenthaler is no longer here – that it is a very loyal task, if you analyze this government programme, first of all in the social field, and critically question it – from the question of funding to structural reform, all that is inside it and what you may not find at first sight – but one thing you must already like: that here you have already presented something like a massive admission of your own faults and the past's own faults, directly and indirectly. Be quite honest once: Who, if not you, has carried the social sector and the resources of social policy in recent years even in the double pack of this government? Who? And who, if not you, could have actually pursued social policy in the interests of the Austrian people – and not in the interests of the ÖVP and the groups behind it, of the economic lobbys and of those who favour turbocapitalism towards the EU? You have to make this question happen. Previously, Mr Westenthaler – which brings me to the broken election promises, and that is why I am now thinking of it – was born the grand idea that the election promises should also somehow be sued. It's not that bad at all. I would add an addition to that which deals with the fact of electoral fraud and the loss of mandate. This answer has remained to us Mr Westenthaler. But if he thinks it is serious, then please add this proposal to it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Look, there are many open wounds in the social field, and not only since this government is in office – it is to be expected that I will give you the right that much will not get better, but perhaps worse – but there will be some time back, too, and there you can't do it as if you had nothing to do with all of this. The care sector, for example, is something that has not been such a thing since yesterday or since yesterday, as a striking wound in the Austrian social system, but that has been a construction site for years and decades, if you want to say so, at the back of the poorest of the poor in this country. And you also have to make the accusation – despite the fact that you are now making a “half-hearted valorization” under quotation marks – that you voted against a few months ago when we proposed to make a 17-percent adjustment to ensure that what has actually been asleep for ten years is balanced. What you want there is nothing but a cheap alibi action, as you have already delivered a lot. You would have in the past – and there you have to say: You're not different from the new government. – I would say, for example, that our FPÖ proposal for a fundamental reform, for a paradigm change, would almost be able to take up once in the social state and at least do something in this direction. We liberals say – I know that not everyone likes it; and I am pleased that you have also spoken; now you will speak again because you do not like it –: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parent]] The social state is there for nationals! That's what we want in the first place. That does not mean how you always assume that there should be no social security for non-citizens, but we want to separate the two systems, and the whole is cost-truth. There would have been enough opportunities in the past to take steps in this direction. I am thinking only of the children's allowance, which is certainly an important introduction, which can well be referred to as a milestone, but you could have taken up our proposal and said that you are extending the duration of the child's allowance for nationals and are taking advantage of those who, as non-citizens, are now also properly involved in the social wells. You have to make this accusation happen. And it is with this that you have basically laid the foundation stone for what this new government will now, if it is allowed to say something inconceivable, will continue to be stunned. It has also been no one but you – you have to say that – in unity with the ÖVP as an old government, which the SPÖ has put both the slide into the Chancellor's office and the slide into the Social Ministry, where it has already been seen today that it probably does not deserve this name properly in a well-known way. You have to let that happen! In this respect, there is relatively little difference between the course of the last few years and the course that is now waiting for us. You can turn it and turn it as you want it to, who has expected the new government to change the course towards more fairness, towards more justice, a change away from the social cold, to social responsibility, which will be disappointed. But you, ladies and gentlemen, can turn it and turn it as you like, because you have had your chance. And as it's so beautiful: Whoever comes too late punishes life!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12899	The next speaker was Mr Riepl. Even chosen speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12920	Mr President. High house! I would like to begin by congratulating the Minister for Social Affairs: After a few days in office to answer 48 questions correctly, competently and in time available, I think a good performance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] You should mention that, I mean. And I would like to thank the Minister for his congratulations, of course, to the BZÖ, because they have made it possible for the Minister of Social Affairs to do so, otherwise the possibility would not have been given. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] In the meantime, the discussion, Mr Scheibner, shows that the whole story has become a bit of a pipe-creper. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No! That was very good!]] – Of course, you can’t admit that, it’s clear, but it’s really, I think, so. If one reads through the urgent request, about the first sentence where there is a breach of confidence in social policy, then one must say: One should think again about what party the social ministers have set up in recent years. It was the BZÖ, before the liberals: They were involved in the reduction of social security contributions, which were in the process of reducing pensions, and they were in the process of seeing the family compensation fund slid into the deficit, which were in the process of seeing how government debt increased. Today we hear: The best situation was there! But the government debt has increased. [[Abg. Scheibner: Oh, yes!]] You hear me, I think, bad. [[Abg. Scheibner: I don't think what I hear there!]] - You don't believe it. Then you should look at what it really is, because today we have many billions of debt more than in 2000. You shouldn't forget all of this. [[Abg. Scheibner: And the deficit?]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, were also watching when unemployment, especially in the youth sector, doubled. I think it should be mentioned clearly and clearly in such a discussion, even today, that Mr. Westenthaler, who said that Mr. Klima had come with the apprentice lie at the time: no apprentice without a teaching position! on 28. On the occasion of the budget debate on the 2001 budget, the following stated among other things: “We have almost no youth unemployment.” [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] This was immediately after when climate was no longer available as Federal Chancellor. There you are on the 28th. In November 2000, it was said: “We have almost no youth unemployment.” And you said, “Budget 2001 is the beginning of a new Austrian success story.” And what do we have now? What do you have on the 11th? -September of last year? – I quote: “BZÖ-chef Westenthaler also considers youth unemployment to be ‘exactly too high’. He demanded a ‘social transformation’. – These were your words. So in 2000, you say there was no youth unemployment, and six years later you say that youth unemployment is too high, you have to do something else. More clearly, the failure of the BZÖ policy in the last governments is not documented. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Wrongly quoted!]] – This is not wrong quoted, I can give you anything, you can read it all. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Tell me the source of the quote! If you quote, you have to say the source!]] The problem is that you have forgotten what you said, and I would just like to point out that. This social transformation is now happening with a new government that has undertaken to minimise and combat youth unemployment in particular. But in your urgent request, the alleged lack of expertise of the Chamber of Labour and the trade unions is also complained. That's very interesting! This must have plunged into your urgent request, because so far you have actually said and done the opposite of that. What happened? – It was always the wish the opposite [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: All this has been confirmed!]] The union is bad, it's red. The Chamber of Labour delivers false numbers. A trade union has founded your friend, Mr. Gaugg. Let's remember! The abolition of the Chamber of Labour even last demanded you, namely on 27 July. September 2006, and less money for the Chamber of Workers through a reduction – your own applications – of the Chamber of Labour. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The compulsory membership!]] – That was your policy and your situation! And I think you should point out all of this now, because you have clearly forgotten what you have said yourself. Two, three comments still on the cancellation protection history or the abatement of the cancellation protection for apprentices. I say it quite openly: I personally have no joy, no joy at all! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Well, we have at least something in common!]] But we'll take a look – and I think we'll have enough time to discuss this –: How does the framework look like, and in what way is it actually implemented? It has already been said: We have agreed resolution options today. In Vienna, for example, 20 percent of teaching conditions are going to be – 20 percent! – dissolved in advance, and there is no claim that the one who dissolves the teaching relationship can subsequently continue to learn somewhere. So if we can connect this with the guarantee to a place to continue learning, then the whole story looks a little better, I say. Tag ‘Guarantee’. – The education guarantee up to 18, which has now been laid down in the Government Convention, means either a training place or a training place in institutions or a school square. And the aim is that no 15-year-olds, as has already been said, should be in our Republic in the future without an education or training offer. I think this measure is very important, and I am already looking forward to the proposals on this issue of interest groups, in particular the trade union youth who has already applied for some reflections and ideas. I am already looking forward to the discussion in the committees when it comes to implementing it, and I am also looking forward to the opposition proposals; they are, at least, welcome.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13092	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Honey. Voluntary time limit: Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13113	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! 253,000 people in Austria are at risk of poverty, although they work. In 253 000 people, Don't deserve to secure their livelihood. The government's response to this is a minimum wage per general collective contract. This minimum wage of 1 000 € for 38, 40 hours – we do not know exactly – grossly well noticed is net – we have already heard this today – in about 850 €, depending on supplements, possibly even a little less. 850 € – they may be. That's not much! Do you really know – especially the gentlemen of the FPÖ – how little that is? – This is embarrassingly little, and especially it is far away from the legal minimum wage of € 7 as we Greens demand it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In this government programme, it is the talk of €1,000, € 850 net – but when it comes to full acquisition! How much remains to be done when it comes to part-time employment of about 20 hours? - There's not much left. And for us Greens definitely too little! In fact, I hope that there is too little for social democracy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But for such people, we now have the need-oriented minimum security, up to €726 per month. But, please, what's so great about that? And what is that anything other than social assistance? This amount is 100 € below the poverty risk threshold. I emphasize: 100 €. Do you know how much in turn this is when it comes to paying the cost of everyday life? – You can't pay for it! Something really very interesting, something interesting about this minimum guarantee are the framework conditions, namely the framework conditions in the area of the need for willingness to work. This willingness to work, for example, is reflected in the demand for higher regional mobility. I find that super cynical: unemployed, mediumless and then sent as a plate washer to Tyrol. Or how do you imagine this, ladies and gentlemen? In my opinion, these provisions are, above all, one thing, namely, a point of order. And then there is the great idea with the commitment to non-profit work. This is really rather obscene: non-profit work that is carried out by those who receive the minimum guarantee and the probably other people who are not really super-established on the labour market, such as street cleaners, taking away the job. They are then unemployed, can they possibly benefit from the minimum guarantee and then return to their metier? So, please, what should this have for a purpose: to replace ordinary employment with non-profit work? Mr. Minister! Do you want to bring in the savings of the administration as you did in Salzburg? There, ordinary cleaning workers were privatized in the state administration. The cleaning work was transferred to a private company. And do you know the working conditions of such companies? - They're not good, they're not good at all. That's hard work at pretty bad conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know how history went on? – Now, after some time, the employees, the workers in the national service have complained that the rooms are not clean enough. One has analysed the problem and then has insisted that the working conditions of these cleaning workers from the private companies are so bad that they are so under stress that it is simply not possible for them to clean it properly in the short time they are paid for. I mean, you have to imagine that! It was clear to us, Mr Sozialminister, that you did not. These were measures that have greatly contributed to the deterioration of the working conditions of workers. Of the social security that you have so often quoted, namely of emotional social security, these cleaning forces will not feel much of it. But you bought it, Minister of Social Affairs. I like it. Spirit of this urgent request at all, you can certainly imagine that. But I know you from Salzburg, and I am skeptical – certainly not as far as your administrative department competence is concerned – as far as your solidarity is concerned. You didn't convince me in Salzburg. Faith You're telling me: We Greens will observe you very closely here in Vienna!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13204	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Hofer. Voluntary limit on speaking time: 5 minutes; The Group's remaining speaking time: 9 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13225	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Sozialminister, you are giving me the impression of a person who really has social concerns at heart. That is why I ask you: Was that really necessary? We know Wolfgang Schüssel is a very tough negotiator. We know he's a good tacticer. And the result now shows us that in this government programme, above all, the manuscript of the ÖVP is to be found, which we also know. I have also been very careful today in the presentation of the government programme. I noticed that social democracy had obviously changed. There used to be socialists. Today there is Tony Blair, there was Schröder, there was climate, and I have believed, with Alfred Gusenbauer will now again keep a little more of the spirit of socialism here, the spirit of Bruno Kreisky. [[Abg. Pepper: He's coming!]] When Vice-chanc Molterer spoke today, that the value of a human being is also based on the value of the work that man exercises, you have clap my ladies and gentlemen from the SPÖ – perhaps automatically. [[Abg. May. Trunk: Sure not!]] Read it in the minutes! That's exactly this strange mind that keeps us moving in here: The value of a human being is based on the value of his work. What is the work of a Federal Chancellor worth? - 19 000 € per month. So the chancellor is very much worth it. What is the work of cleaning in the hospital or in the nursing home worth? - 800 €. So this human being is not worthy of this representation. I am very glad that these words have fallen today because they reveal a spirit that is a completely false spirit, because the value of a person is not based on what he works, but rather on completely different criteria that we know: on his character, on his credibility, on his behaviour toward his fellow human beings. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Many things that stand in this program are not bad from home, it is only very superficial in many areas, it is a disappointment in many areas because, as we all know, a care emergency in the election campaign has broken out. And we all thought, now, after the election, this care emergency is fixed. It is in the programme that a working group will be used to address this care emergency. There has already been a working group, and this working group has already presented its results. Why don't you put that into practice? Why don't you really adjust the care money? We have a value loss of 17 percent for the care money. I emphasize: 17 percent! Everyone who has to take care of it is hurting. I know it costs money, but it could be paid only with the more revenue from the increased oil prices of 2006. 17 per cent withdrawal since the introduction of the care allowance, ladies and gentlemen! One important point, which has always been criticized by SPÖ, is the draft heavy-worker regulation, which is because heavy work is only taken into account when it comes to working in the last 20 years. And in practice, this is often not possible. Who is so healthy after really hard work that he can spend another ten years in the last 20 years? Even if you do, you can't go to pension free of charge, even then you have to buy discounts. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Politics has lost credibility, and I would like to make a contribution to ensuring that it can regain credibility and help you to keep an election promise that you have made in your election manifesto, namely the abolition of the study contributions. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I ask you to follow your conscience and agree to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13296	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mrs Ing. Hofer, Strache, Dr. Graf regarding social justice for Austrian students by abolishing the study contributions is sufficiently supported and is therefore involved in the negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13384	The next speaker is Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. Voluntary limit on speaking time: 5 minutes; The Group's remaining speaking time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13405	Mr President. Appreciated ministers on the government bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Ing. In the run-up to my speech, Hofer addressed the spirit of the SPÖ and, in this context, referred to that part of the statements of the Lord Vice-Chancellor, in which he addressed a person's "value-setting". Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to you, but your head of the party has dealt specifically with basic security, with minimum security, about one and a half hours ago, and in this context he has talked about people who are in distress in an unappreciative way. For me, when people are in distress and need help, not the question of why they are in need, but of the The fact that there are people in Austria who are poor, who have to live under the poverty threshold. We've come to help these people. What should stimulate thinking about this model, or what I feel is a social policy milestone, is that, in the case of the need-oriented minimum guarantee, people, including the social assistance beneficiaries – my knowledge for the first time – actually have the opportunity to be integrated into an active labour market policy measure, that they have an active right to be provided through the labour market service. I personally find this to be a social policy milestone, although I also give you the right that the value of a person is not related to the value of work. But it is, and I think, that we all agree here that a person himself very often measures his value by what he gives back to a society. That is why, I think, this measure is also in its sense. I have worked for a very long time in a labour market policy measure with long-term unemployed women, and I know what it means for a person to be excluded from the labour market for a long time and therefore also to have very little self-esteem. In my opinion, this basic requirement-oriented assurance, which we have set out in the government programme, is really also a measure to ensure that people who have gone away from the labour market who have had very few opportunities can again experience reintegration in the first, in the second labour market. – I think that is a social policy milestone. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's by no means the way your partyobmann said it was. It is established that those people who will receive these benefits must also demonstrate their willingness to work. So, as has already been said, this is really a major milestone in combating poverty. The fact that there is a problem of poverty in Austria, I believe we all agree. There has been so much discussion today that there are no major future projects in this government programme. – I think, especially in the area of the Social Ministry, especially in the area of our Social Minister, there are very large, future-looking projects, and above all, this programme contains answers to the very great challenges of the future. The pensions have already been addressed today, which has already been addressed the great challenge in the field of care. We all know that people are getting older and older, that care needs will rise. As we have heard, to a large extent we will also be dealing with reducing unemployment by providing young people with a training guarantee up to 18 years old. If all of this is not social policy milestones, if these are not major projects for which it is worth participating, then I really do not know what major projects should be. Perhaps one last thought is to conclude, because I know that the measures taken by the AMS have not always found the approval of all the political groups in this House either. The government programme states that there should not only be spas and training measures, but also employment for social assistance beneficiaries, for unemployed people. – I do not see this as cheap workers in non-profit activities, but I see it as a first step in reintegration into the regular labour market It is. There are a lot of socio-economic enterprises in Austria, there are a lot of non-profit employment projects that have already done excellent work in this area. I think that if we invite these experts to cooperate in measures for the need-oriented minimum security, then that can only be done well. Finally, I would like to say that I am 100% convinced that, with Dr. Erwin Buchinger, we have a social fighter that we have a social fighter in the Social Ministry.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13481	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. 5 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit, which is also the remainder of the speaking time of the Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13502	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! When I saw the urgent request, I was, as you say so beautifully, quite abg’haut. In fact, it is kind of funny if the former Minister of Social Affairs, who has not been a minister for five days, now asks questions whose answers you would have to know after only five days from the office – I at least thought so. For example, she asked how many disabled people there are, how many caregivers there are. – The fact that you don't know this after five days is already violent and somehow also an outing of first class on how intensively you have dealt with this topic. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ]] You could have saved that. I'm not saying anything, Mrs. Minister, if the Huber Sepp or the Berger Max, who might be on the 1st floor. October was re-elected and praised at the end of October to ask such questions, which do not know, but that you, as the former Minister of Social Affairs, no longer know, I say now, a story of your own. But now to the request itself. Mr Minister, you said – and that is true! – that there will be €400 million in additional budget appropriations annually in the area of social security. – That’s not true! There are only 1,185 billion euros in total and that averages only 266,25 million euros per year. But it can also be said that it is. If you're talking about 400 million a year, but it's only 266.25 million a year, then there's something wrong with that. I mean, this does not necessarily create confidence, but at the very beginning it loses a lot of what you should actually use, namely, a certain basis of trust. I would ask you, Mr Minister, to operate with clear figures in the interests of people with disabilities. We want to have a dialogue with you, and not someone to whom we have to constantly distrust if he brings anything about it, and not have to think about it again: Is the story true or is it not true? We could solve this on a different basis, and I hope that we will do the same. That would really be a request from me. But now to other things. – Mr Minister, your government programme says that there should be the round-the-clock care. Because I'm absolutely for it, there must be a 24-hour care. But what you're not saying is who pays for it. Who's to pay for this, please? You can't take anything away from the person concerned! If someone gets 1 600 € care money today and thus a round-the-clock Support must be financed, namely 744 hours a month, then this means a gross wage of €2.2 for the caregiver. If there is yet to be an employment relationship, then only one euro will be left out of the 2.2 € – and you will find no one across Austria who can afford to work for a Euro hourly wage. That is, if you really are committed to a 24-hour care, to a round-the-clock care – I strongly support that, we need it – but then it must also be made clear that this has the public hand to finance. Otherwise, we can forget the same thing, and the hope of many interested parties who have purchased personnel on the illegal market that they can stay at home would be more or less there. Overall, the issues of financing are not clarified in the chapters “People with Disabilities”, “Old Care”, care for care. On the contrary! I even have a very strange suspicion – perhaps it won’t be – as it is in the chapter “Fleat and care”, that the federal government, countries and communities will sit together – once again a working group – and more or less want to define the content of this part. I think that's dangerous, and I'm really telling you that. If I have something to pay today and know my budgetary means, I'll consider: What is possible, what is not possible? That is, if you want to implement this – and I say now, you want to do it – then you will not be able to do the bill without the host, namely not without those affected. They must be prepared to involve those concerned in their own affairs, especially in the field of care, personal assistance, in everything that concerns work with the elderly, with the disabled. If this is only done on the basis of the cost carriers, then that does not fit, and you will feel the resistance of those concerned very quickly or there is a risk that we will be left out of our right to self-determination again. – Creating You are people with disabilities as partners and not as opponents, that would be quite good, and take advantage of their expert knowledge, do not exclude them! Mrs Lapp said that the last government would have wanted to abolish the BSA. – True, it saved those affected and nobody else, I would like to hold this here!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13566	The last speaker in this debate was Mr Neubauer. 4 minutes of speaking time; this is at the same time the remaining speaking time of your group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13588	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Klubobmann Schüssel said on the occasion of an event of the Public Service Trade Union: The pensioners and today's generation of seniors must note that we no longer want to make gifts to them. - Quote. This cynicism, with which it is formulated, has revealed itself to us today in this government programme. It is a government program that was dictated by the ÖVP and was allowed to sign the German Chancellor Gusenbauer. - That's it! Mr Sozialminister, you have answered many questions today, but a few questions remain open to me, and I can inform you below. Why has this government programme not taken place in order to do something for the people who have to go into disability pensions in order to be able to take advantage of the heavy-worker scheme? Why has nothing been done about prescription fees for chronically ill people, ladies and gentlemen? Why was nothing done for the abolition of inheritance and gift tax? Why was nothing done to eliminate social hardships by this pension reform? Why was nothing done for social services? If you see all these questions now in the context and know that you have announced a great deal of desire to launch a tax reform for the years 2009/2010, then it sounds like it should be an increase, because instead you bring burdens. To mention just one example: the increase in health insurance contributions – quite funny, because at 0.15 per cent not much as you want to think, but if you calculate it, you get almost exactly that amount per year that this government was willing to leave to the pensioners with the single payment of €30.92. – In this way the money is recovered from the pensioners, and I say that this is a totally unsocial achievement to the pensioners! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We therefore call for the recognition of the negotiating mandate for pensioners by the Board of Directors of the Council of Senior Citizens and, at the same time, Mr Federal Minister, for an appreciation of the Council of Senior Citizens. It can't be that this senior council still exists for ten years, but actually doesn't enjoy any real freedom of action. As far as the BZÖ's request for care is concerned, I can tell you that we do not, in principle, reject it, but have a different access to it. That is why I shall put forward a motion for a resolution which I now have the opportunity to hear. [[Quoted print version removed]] I am seeking to accept this request; I am seeking, above all, the Social Democracy for its approval, as according to an APA issue of 9. In August 2006, the current German Chancellor Gusenbauer said on the field of care, with an additional 200 mil- The biggest problems are to be solved. It is also pointed out that grass may be able to provide only € 140 million. Well, Grasser is no longer represented in this House, that is: What prevents you from accepting this good request?
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13673	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Neubauer, who has just been tabled by Mr Kickl, Mr Neubauer, Mr Neubauer, Mr President of the Commission, on the increase in the amount of the care allowance, is well supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13728	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. The Group's remaining speaking time: 6 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13752	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Neubauer, my group will vote in favour of your request to increase the amount of care, but we have also tabled a proposal of our own. I think it is important to put these initiatives and wait for them and hope that SPÖ in this area – at least in this area! – implement their election propaganda. Not only once... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Parnigoni again; he always sits there, Mr. former traffic speaker, and speaks on every subject three. Please, come at least you, Mr Parnigoni, follow your election promise and agree with the opposition that the care money will not only be valorised once, but will also be truly adjusted, increased and guaranteed in its value for the future! [[Abg. Parnigoni: We will do it!]] Wonderful! He said: We will do it, so perhaps we will really get the appropriate approval today. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Our request!]] Mr Mitterlehner of the ÖVP has been a little surprised, which is why my group, the BZÖ under Klubobmann Westenthaler, has tabled this urgent question. – This will probably be allowed to be questioned by a social minister who has either deliberately or unconsciously called false figures in a television broadcast. One should not wonder about that, but that is, of course, an obligation, if not even he knows – or did he deliberately make it? – that it does not have 400 million per year available to ensure additional social expenditure, but will not reach this rate until last year, hopefully, or at any rate. This is, after all, an alleged core competence of the SPÖ – in order to establish the election promises accordingly. And it is interesting, Mr Mitterlehner, to discuss this, on the first day of this new federal government, at least on the first day at the parliamentary level, which is why SPÖ, in its own core competence, has been removed like a Christian tree on 6 June. January. We have seen this again today that there are no special answers here. Mrs Lapp, in her reading, meant very well here that Klubobmann Westenthaler had not read the 180 pages of the government programme. When I look at it: Including the cover sheet and the table of contents, it is not 180 pages, but 167 pages. But that's just by the way. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: She doesn't even know how many pages it has!]] If you want the advertising... [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – Please, at what level do you discuss here? You are now representative of a government party, Mrs Lapp! This seems not to have been discussed up to you in the previous or third last row. You should now really also argue with a certain level and not criticise the fact that an equal treatment law has been applied with an orange color. You should be glad, together with us – I don't know, you probably voted against it at the time – that under our government it was possible to finally implement this disability equal treatment law. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You'd have had a long time to do that. This is a real milestone for the rights of the disabled. In your government program, in the 167 pages including cover sheet, we would have expected such milestones that you will implement. Mr Riepl, when you go out again and say that we would have been against the union: So if in recent years anyone has worked against the union, then it was the union itself, then it was the social democrats who were responsible for this financial disaster of the union. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I heard today someone who said that the trade union demonstrations would have led to a little mitigating the pension reform. – Yes, at least at that time they were able to demonstrate! Today they could not even finance a day of demonstration at the empty-floated strike fund. But we would not have needed that either, because as you yourself write it in your government programme, we have the best pension system in Europe, and that is also a legacy of the former Federal Government. And we'll take a very close look at what you're going to do from this inheritance. Mr Sozialminister! One thing has already been written to you in the main book: We would have expected ourselves today – and this is a core competence of SPÖ; it is clear, of course, that on the first day here in Parliament you cannot know everything – that at least you will present your own goals and ideas accordingly. Unfortunately, we have heard very little. I'm excited to see if that's going to be even better. One thing I say to you as a parliamentarian: It has always been your group that has taken great care that there is no polemics from the government bank, that there are no general excuses on the part of the ministers and that there are no flagrant remarks to be made by Members. This is what we will observe with you, because here is the „Fundesliga“, Mr Sozialminister! We're not here in any country day where this might go through, I don't know. You are no longer the Council of State in any federal state, but you are the Minister of the Republic of Austria. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] And we here in the National Council are the representatives of the population of the Republic of Austria, and there you do not have to give teaching, but to provide information, answers to questions that are asked here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But you will still have to account for us a number of times here, why you, as a Social Minister in a Federal Government, are involved in this, which, as one of the real concrete measures in the government programme, causes a tax evasion with increases in fees, with increases in taxes on the population. – That was perhaps a little introduction, Mr Social Minister, to practice a little more in parliamentarianism! We will cooperate constructively wherever it is positive – Mr Dolinschek said it. But we will ensure that You cannot continue the old policy of the great coalition of the 1990s with your policy of concealment at the expense of the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13855	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I ask all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to take a seat, because we are now coming to the votes. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, ladies and gentlemen, on sanctions for broken electoral promises. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Hofer, colleagues and colleagues on social justice for Austria's students by abolishing the study contributions. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The votes to be used are in the House of Deputies and bear the name of the Deputies as well as the name "Yes", which are the grey ballots, or "No", which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would like to ask those Members who vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by Members of Parliament, Mr Hofer, Mr President, to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. I now ask the rapporteur, Mr Rainer Wimmer, to begin the call for name; Mrs. Dr. Maria Theresia Fekter will replace him later.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13928	Before I finish voting, I may apply to Mrs. Dr. Gabriela Mosersagen, the vote card on which is “Yes” or “No”. I would therefore ask you to raise the corresponding, even if the color is not correct. We will immediately arrange you to get new, properly printed voice cards. – Did you throw in, Mrs. Colleague? [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: Yes!]] That concludes the vote. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. To that end, I will interrupt the session for a few minutes. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13975	Ladies and gentlemen, I may ask you to take your seat again. I'll start the interrupted session again. The vote will be taken at the next voting time. 173; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 42, No votes: 131. – The application is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. [[Report on the outcome of the vote p. 354.]] [[By way of derogation from the announcement of the voting behaviour by President Dr. Spindelegger, the actual vote result is as follows: votes cast: 174; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 42, ‘No’ votes: 132.]] Members voted in ‘Yes’: Aspock; Belakovich-Jenewein, Bösch, Brosz; Fichtenbauer; Glavischnig-Piesczek, Graezeit, Graf, Grünewald; Haimbuchner, Hauser, Hofer, Hradescni; Kickl, Klement, Kogler, Kurzmann; Lunacek, lignite, lignite, lignite, lignite, lignite, lunacec; Mandak, Mayerhofer, Moser; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Pillow, Pirklhuber; Rosary, Rossmann; Sburny, Treasure, Stadler Ewald, Stoisits, Strache; themesl; Van der Bellen, Vilimsky; Weinzinger Brigid, Weinzinger Lutz; Zach, Zinger, Zinggl, Dwarf. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Klaus Hubert; Bauer, Bayr, Mulder, Binder-Maier, Brinek, Broukal, Bucher; Cap, Csörgits; Darmann, Dolinschek, Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert; Eder Kurt, Eder Sebastian, Eder-Gitschthaler, Ehmann, Einm, Einwallner, Eisenschenk, Eßl; Fassleven, Faul, Fazekas, Fekter, Fleckl, Franz, Freund, Fuhrmann, Führer, Fürntrath; Gaál Anton, Gahr Hermann, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Glaser, Grander, Grillitsch, Grossmann, Großruck; Haberzettl, Hagenhofer, Hakl, Haubner Peter, Haubner Ursula, Heinisch-Hosek, Heinzl, Hlavac, Höfinger, Höllerer, Hörl, Hornek; Ikrath; Kainz, Chapel, chapel, Karl, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Köfer, Königsberger-Ludwig, Koßl, Krainer, Herbs, Krist, Kukacka, Kuntzl; Lapp, Lentic; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Marizzi, Mayer Elmar, Mikesch, Missethon, Morak, Muchitsch, Murauer, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz, Niederwieser; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Parnigoni, Pendl, Pepper, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Prince; Rada Robert, Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Reheis, Riener Barbara, Riepl, Zeit Sylvia; Sound, Schar, Schasching, Scheibner, Schiedler Andreas, Schönpass, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Sieber Norbert, Sonnberger, Spindelberger Erwin, Spindellegger Michael, Stadlbauer, Stadler Astrid, Stauber, Steier, Steindl Konrad, Stummvoll; Tamandl, Trunk; Westenthaler, Wimmer, Wittmann, Wöinger, Wurm; Zweytick.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14165	We shall now proceed to the next vote. I'm allowed to ask everyone to take a seat again. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, colleague and colleagues on the lack of sustainable care solutions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kickl, colleagues, on the increase in the amount of the care allowance. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[18:22:20]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14226	I will now resume the negotiations on the Federal Government's declaration. The next speaker is Mr Grillitsch, who has a voluntary speaking time limit of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14252	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Mr Parnigoni, this will not be a matter of concern. – Security was a very important topic for the Austrians, especially in the election campaign. I think the Austrians are rightly proud of living in one of the safest countries in the world. This government programme is a good basis for developing and developing Austria's security in a comprehensive manner, in several areas: It is about a safe living space, it is about a safe working space, and it is also about a safe economic area. And our country – I say this very consciously today – is too bad for any experiments. That is why I am glad that the government programme also bears quite clearly the manuscript of the Austrian People's Party, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Whoever speaks of security must also speak of national defence. This federal government also guarantees the ability of the Austrian federal army to act. A federal army is necessary to fulfil its task in the field of military defence and to protect sovereignty and neutrality. The German army must also be at the side of the population in the event of disasters, my very much appreciated colleagues. However, it is also about the security of rural areas. I am very glad that we were able to ensure that every euro from Brussels was collected: €3.9 billion for the period from 2007 to 2013. This ensures the programmes for our miners, thus ensuring the programme in the environmental field, and thus a regional offensive in rural areas is also necessary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I say very consciously here today – I also ask you, ladies and gentlemen of our coalition partner: Make sure that co-financing for these programmes is also made available and ensured in the federal states! There must not be constant political uncertainty. I ask Dr. Gusenbauer – unfortunately, he is not in the hall at the moment, yet I do – not only to teach further education in Vienna schools, but also – I offer it – to take supplementary education in agricultural schools so that the understanding now given by the government programme can be intensified. In this context, I remember discussions here when we discussed, 50 percent less for rural areas and 50 percent less for rural families. . I am very glad that this government programme is out of dispute. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What delights me especially for the people of rural areas is the technology offensive, the broadband offensive with €500 million, where rural areas can become an attractive economic area, where, so to speak, we get the world into the village and where, vice versa, we can quickly put out our services, our ideas, our products into the world. The ÖVP and the Farmers' Federation are also aware of this future opportunity for renewable energy sources. This is also a question of security of supply, of jobs, but also of protecting the environment. Ladies and gentlemen! The energy for a secure future grows on the fields, on the meadows and in the forests of the farmers. Energy from agriculture This is the first time that we have been able to find a solution to the problems facing the Community. Therefore, the objectives of this government programme are clearly defined: to double the share of renewable energy sources in total energy consumption by 2020. In addition, an additional €500 million energy and climate protection fund has been created, so that we can work with this future opportunity in particular in the field of research and development. I think this government programme is a good programme for a forward-looking Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14338	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Darmann. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14359	Mr President. Estimated members on the government bank! High house! Since the field of education and science is of particular importance to me, in my speech I will deal primarily with the students and the tuition fees. However, I would like to make a few comments from SPÖ-Sizes on one of their most important constituencies, namely the abolition of tuition fees. Josef Broukalal's SPÖ spokesperson on 23 March. In November 2006, the following words were added: The SPÖ obviously wants to abolish the unfair tuition fees! Or: SPÖ-chef and now Chancellor Gusenbauer. January 2007 in the ‘ZiB 2’: We want free access to universities! The managing SP-Klubobmann Cap called for press hours in the 17th century. September 2006 – i.e. in the middle of the election campaign – includes the abolition of study fees and a reduction in the maximum number of students. But what about these promises, what happens to these demands? – In the government programme, the maximum number of students is now only referred to as the indicative value, which means that a consistent implementation of the planned reduction, which would certainly be in the interest of the students, is no longer guaranteed in the election campaign despite any other statements. It is also extremely worrying how SPÖ deals with its own students who have actively fought for the ideals of social democracy in the election campaign. This goes so far that these students are now demonstrating the entrance doors of SPÖ-centrals and also leaving the party. With the completely unforgivable approach of being able to buy or free from the payment of the tuition fee, the creation of a two-class society among the students is encouraged. Financially privileged students will be able to afford the fees easily and subsequently drop them off, less middle-sized students will have to pay for a hunger wage of €6 in the social field. Every work student deserves more today. That's why I'm wondering: Where, please, is this an incentive for this system if it does not even pay off economically? If a student really needs to pursue a professional activity during his period of study, he should do so in order to: Is it possible to pay a fair fee and, at the best, to carry out a useful activity in the field of content of his study? As a fair solution or access from our side for those part of the Austrian students who cannot afford this €363 in the semester, we believe that we should promote a model of performance-related study contributions. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is a model of a social study system with performance incentives. Based on this model, universities are obliged to organise their studies in such a way – and this means providing enough internships or laboratory places – that every student can have a quick and fast way through the study plan. Under these conditions and only under these conditions can performance-related study fees provide an additional incentive. The study fees are linked, regardless of the parents' income, to a minimum number of hours per semester, i.e. a minimum study success. This means that, in the event of a breach of the required performance, the study fee must be paid by the student himself, but in the event of excess, it will not only be issued, but can also be rewarded by a special benefit premium, for example, from a grade average of 1.5. I would like to close by quoting the second President of the National Council Mag. ==References== March 2006, which I want to give you on your way to the future: Those who fail in education policy completely fail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14438	Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister, spoke from the government bank. Mr. Federal Minister, I'll put the clock at the desired 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14460	Mr President. My precious colleagues on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! After seven years Austria is excellent under Federal Chancellor Schüssel. The location is in top form. Austria has an unprecedented record employment. We are experiencing a labour market that is fine. The number of unemployed is on valley trip: minus 10 percent per year, minus 28 000 last. We celebrate export records around the turn of the year: 100 billion € and more, almost 107 billion € in goods exports; if you still charge the service, it is 150 billion €. Our strategic positioning, not only politically, but also economically in the Danube region – and here I mean from the Black Forest to the Black Sea – is a very remarkable and offers opportunities for the future. A growth of more than 3 percent, a growth higher than in the euro zone, higher than in the USA, than in Japan. And who would have thought that the International Monetary Fund, ladies and gentlemen, presented us some months ago with data that read: The Austrian produces not only more than the German, the German, but even more than the Swiss, the Swiss, per capita. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is a success story, which is all the more remarkable than we have heard on many occasions today from our professional mouths, that our social security systems, to make systems very soothing. We have one of the best pension systems in the world, a three-pillar model that is further expanded. And we have a health system, which is also one of the most powerful in the world and, by the way, costs quite a great deal on the international scale, if this is calculated on the basis of GDP. But being good means getting better. We – this federal government, which can present itself to the House today – want to make further progress in the next few years Austria. Full employment is our common goal by 2010. As Minister of Labour, I say to you: It's achievable! This means, as a target, once again minus 25 percent for the unemployed. If we now create minus 10 percent per year, it can be reached. We are currently 4.7 percent. In Europe, when a threesome is on the horizon, one speaks of full employment. Half of Austria, dear Ladies and gentlemen, we already have full employment today, especially in the West; Mr Buchinger has this almost comprehensively. We will continue to make it in the east and in the south. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To this end, the funds for labour market policy have been increased accordingly, but – Hand to heart! – the teaching and quality of labour market policy is one thing, the growth of over 3% is of course a tremendous help here. In this respect, it should not look any worse this year and even in the next few years. We invest in target groups that deserve it. The youth, youth employment, together, is very much at our heart. Every youth will continue to receive a apprenticeship or at least enter the reception network, in over-company apprenticeship facilities. We must increasingly take care of the no-future kids who do not have an apprenticeship or have completed or are seeking training. We know that. I am very glad that Dr. Schüssel's initiative brought me to the side of a State Secretary for Labour. It supports me less than the working world in this country. I have the great honour and joy to be able to present Mrs Christine Marek – after all, for several years, she has been working successfully on the other side of the House here – as the State Secretary for Labour. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In this environment, ladies and gentlemen, the coalition negotiations have taken place – and this has not been easy, but it is a good end for the country and for all of us – that we have agreed to keep course – to keep course and to put forward the measures that this country is going to bring forward and to become. I do not take Mr Faymann for granted, nor my friend Gio Hahn, but: To move research and development per 2010 to 3 per cent of gross domestic product, that is remarkable. In addition, € 800 million will be added for research and development. In this case, cumulated, the public hand will again invest €600 million in education and infrastructure. It is important to install 10.5 billion €, Mr Faymann, in four years via ASFINAG, ÖBB and others. - That's something. Second priority. We take care of more flexibility, but at the same time more social security in this country, “Flexicurity”: Worktime flexibility on the one hand, but better social security for many atypical employees on the other. We take care of the way Minister Buchinger has carried out to combat poverty, minimum security, minimum pension and minimum wage. These are very important instruments for combating poverty. We have already done this successfully, we want to do it even more successfully. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Nor do we forget – and we would be stupid if we were to do so – about the service providers in this country. You will be a very important target group. The SME will be a very important target group for the 2010 tax discharge. In the context of this tax reform, we will also have to make a great effort to reduce additional wage costs – in my view, especially for the low-paid sector. And we will open the door a little further towards employee participation so that workers, so that people in this country not only benefit from their wages and salaries, but also through profit participations, partly also through corporate participations from the success of the economy and our enterprises. Last but not least: In order to underline this balanced approach by the Federal Government, we will continue the fight against black work, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, that is my final point. – On the one hand, we will ensure that it will not only become a little more difficult, but above all in the construction sector, especially as a subcontractor – let us say it in good German – social security contributions “not even to pay in a way”, since there will be a certain liability of general entrepreneurs, and on the other hand we will say in the sense of the words of our vice-channer Molterer: No tolerance!, when it comes to pumping unemployed, and here the sanctions are significantly intensifying. – So incentives and at the same time, if necessary, sanctions. More flexibility, more social security, so that this country will continue to work well in the future, perhaps even a little better. It's possible!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14560	Mr Faymann spoke from the government bank. Mr Federal Minister, I will also send the clock to the required 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14581	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can actually go along seamlessly with Mr Bartenstein's speech, who has already said a lot about Austria's economic location and also mentioned the infrastructure as an example. The infrastructure is divided into a whole range of areas, but in the budgetaryly essential, road and rail, we have not only the theory to offer – Mr Stadler, even if you are surprised – but also practical concrete measures, which have a special significance in our country, namely, for the economy, for the economic location, for the economic power of our country, for the population, for the workers, for the commuters who have nothing of it, if only if we could list projects and not realize them. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Go!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You know each other!]] Therefore, the budgetary provision is also part of the coalition agreement, part of the negotiations, part of what is reflected in the budget path that we have agreed together. The 10.5 billion €, already mentioned, where the rail has a slightly stronger financial need than the road by 2010, have a high employment effect. However, the companies themselves also have an employment effect, and the ÖBB, with at least 43 000 employees, is one of the companies, which not only has an impact on investment and key industries such as the construction industry, but also directly. Interestingly, it was Adam Smith who once said: A railway consists of 95 percent people and only 5 percent iron! The ÖBB not only have a meaning for the employees, but also for many young people who are in training and who, after this training at ÖBB, are then working in other areas of our economy, are well-trained, highly trained, equipped with a good armor for their further activity. So there is a direct employment effect here, as far as youth employment is concerned, and of course there is an indirect employment effect in our country to be highlighted and underlined by investment. Now, in the last few days, I'm often asked: What are the specific projects now? And that's where I always say very openly: Contracts must be respected! The most common question with the railway is, of course, the one after the Koralm Tunnel, which is called contractual, but there are also many others that are mentioned again and again. We will not only comply with contracts in this area, because this is very important to us, but we will also present a timetable with framework agreements and framework agreements, if we have considered the projects so closely that whenever we announce project rates or completions, we can also recognize the finished project. The worst thing is if you promise everything. Five ministers in this field have so much wished and announced since 2000, and I am convinced that many things are not in bad intentions at all, but many opportunities and timetables have been announced or announced, which contradict each other in such a way that the most important thing here is to bring in order and clarity for precisely these investments in our country. The population also has a right to the fact that if we announce something that happens and is kept word here. Therefore, for the projects of which many are already in line, but others still need a list of priorities, the corresponding timetables will also be presented in the coming weeks and months, always with the factual certainty that this is not any announcement or is only empty words, but that there is already a very concrete idea of measures and areas. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Who pays for this?]] – The Austrians pay, and of course our budget is also intended for the infrastructure to work. There will certainly not be those who need the train, whether it be the counterparts or the economy, who can finance all the costs themselves. That is why the Federal Budget is very important here. And so it was a part of the Coalition Convention and the Budget Path to consider: What can one still finance or finance from own resources with good conscience, what is necessary for budget grants? The same applies to ASFINAG, which has other problems, such as equity. And there are also different variants designed to prevent this problem from simply moving away and saying: There's no such thing as that! We say that the transfer to ownership would be a possibility, just as grants from multi-receipts are provided for as a very concrete way to address these problems of the road and thus the ASFINAG. Continuity, sustainability are concepts that play a particularly important role in infrastructure, and savings goals are already derived from my conviction that, with a certain wide-ranging view of planning, with a good coordination, with streamlining the processes of planning, international benchmarks are indeed being met, which show the possibilities here for better design, for more efficiency. In my view, the 10 percent savings target for road and rail projects is not unrealistic and simply written, because saving is always a good thing, but that corresponds to the sense of reality that is going through in this area. Transport safety, speed limit – there are, of course, very important discussions in this respect, because clarity is also to be created here. I have some discussions with the countries over the next few weeks to clarify how we want to proceed with speed 100 and other regulations. The same applies to research and development, a very important area where – and I can say that at the end of the day – my Secretary of State, Christa Kranzl, will be particularly active in this area, and I am grateful for this support.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14658	The next speaker is Mrs Lichtenecker. I'll set the clock to the desired 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14680	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! If one has followed Mr Bartenstein's statement, one could think that we are living in an excellent country, with excellent values. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Yes!]] If this is really the case, Mr Minister – and you are also responsible for it in the field of energy – then why are we finally left out in the field of climate protection with all the problems we currently have? We now have, in the middle of January, as mild temperatures as at springtime, we have storms that are angry, and we have tourist resorts that face huge problems because the snow remains out, which, of course, also means economic damage to these places. And accordingly, the top command of the hour of climate protection must be. The fact that this is not the case for this red and black government shows very clearly the government programme. And that is no wonder, if we look at those who have negotiated the field of the environment and energy, if, on the one hand, Minister Pröll, who was responsible for it, has not done anything in the field of climate protection in the last four years and is acting just as negligently in anti-atomic policy as well, and on the other hand, the head of state Erich Haider from Upper Austria has nothing to do with the social-democratic group with environmental and climate protection, and with very, very great passion enjoys a particular topic, namely, populism. And that nothing goes on then is no wonder. He is knowingly buying measures and regulations that damage the health of people in Upper Austria. The fact is: There have been two politicians who are not really important to the environment, climate, climate protection. Therefore, the environment needs to be protected from pröll and sharks in this red-black government. If you look at this government program, then you will You can find that there are many, many areas that I have just said. On the one hand, we do not have an independent Environment Ministry, which would be very important in order to actually enforce these concerns. It would be best to link the environment with energy and create a powerful ministry to enforce climate change. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On the other hand, there are no ambitious targets and no concrete measures at all. There are no clearly defined energy saving targets. There is no total reform of the eco electricity law, and there is still a deterioration of renewable energy sources. The list of these negative examples could be continued. This government programme does not take the issue of environmental protection seriously, nor does it take it seriously as the topic of anti-atomic policy. Promises are very good. Although there are appropriate approaches as in the 2003 government programme, nothing has happened in recent years, and we fear that nothing will continue to happen. If one takes further areas, such as the issue of “enforcement for environmental damage” or the increased rehabilitation of the old loads to protect our water, or the creation of a uniform law on nature conservation throughout the country, it is unfortunate to note that: All these important issues are not included in this government programme! If you look at it again and are honest, you have to say: This government programme reads like a list of New Year's wishes, non-binding and hollow. It is also very unfortunate that this government does not take advantage of the additional opportunities offered by an active environmental policy, namely to create jobs and strengthen regional economic cycles. That's what's missing here. In summary: a lean paper with weak statements. We have a red and black government that does not take the issue of climate change seriously and the concerns of people in these areas. In short, a bad sign for the environment, a bad sign for the climate and a bad sign for the people in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14735	The next speaker is Mr Eder. I put the watch on the desired 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14757	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all, allow me to wish the new Federal Government all the best and good luck for this legislative period. I also welcome the fact that transport, infrastructure and energy policy in particular This is a very good thing to be implemented by the programmes drawn up by the Social Democrats. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After many issues have already been addressed by the government bank from this major subject area – Mr Bartenstein has rather stressed economic policy, Mr Faymann has talked about ÖBB, ASFINAG and about projects – to make a number of comments on energy policy, where it is above all about getting back to the right track of those parts that Dr. Lichtenecker has criticized here. On the one hand, as part of energy policy, we must first of all talk about security of supply, on the other hand also about sustainable energy in households. And because the eco electricity law was addressed here: There will now be around € 280 million for the production of green electricity, but these will be paid by households. This is why we have already considered the extent to which the individual household, the families, even weaker income levels can be burdened to promote according to eco-power, wind energy or other energies. I would like to address a central issue here: In the case of all the alternative energies already addressed by the government bank today, whether the biomass is, whether the methane fuels are, whether the biogas is, whether the other alternative energies, energies from voltaic plants or others, one must, of course, confess on the one hand that this has to happen, but on the other hand, one also has to set up a cost-benefit account and always take into account the funding programmes necessary to finance it all. And here, in the end, the goal – and that is, I believe, also the goal of the Federal Government – should be that these alternative energies also begin to expect themselves to exist in the cost calculation, so that they can sometime also exist in relation to fossil hydrocarbons, because only then does it make sense to finally switch to these alternative energies. I should also like to mention that, as far as security of supply is concerned, this coalition agreement also includes a very important investment at European level, namely a gas pipeline from Turkey to Europe, through the countries Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary, Slovakia, and then finally Austria, Baumgarten, and from there gas will be distributed into the European network, which means that we will have a second stand on the Russian gas. I'm glad you think in these dimensions too: This is a 4.5-billion-€ project, where only 250 000 steel pipes are used to lay this line, and a lot of other technical support is necessary. This means that there is a need for employment, and it is also important to ensure that such projects are first and foremost as a transition for the next 30, 40, 50 years of energy supply and then in parallel – and this is also good as the government agreement says – to develop alternative energies. Of course, I could now talk about transport safety at the ASFINAG, about the ÖBB, but above all I would like to address one point, namely the technology offensive and broadband technology, because it has not yet been addressed in the appropriate form. This is about investing around €500 million in the next few years, so that broadband technology in the rural regions comes, especially, where high-tech motorways are connected via cables and less put on roads. That means people don't need to be that mobile anymore, but they can Some of them do their work directly from home. I think this is a very important programme for the future and I am glad that this is also part of the Coalition Agreement. Finally, as chairman of the Committee on Transport, I invite everyone, including the opposition, to participate and cooperate in this Committee over the next four years, so that Austria continues to be such a beautiful country, including those areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14814	The next speaker was Mr Themessl. 4 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14835	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! This is now the famous economic package of the new government: on 20 pages Common places or phrases, empty statements of intent, nothing tangible. For months and weeks, the ÖVP grants have been traveling through the country, leaving no opportunity to stand there to tell everyone what economic wonders they have performed. I recall the current hour before about a month ago here in the House, when we were able to relativize the whole thing on the basis of better figures from other countries in Europe. In fact, they have only made a mean measure out of excellent conditions. – That’s fact! If you do here again and again as if you could perform economic wonders, and here announce how wonderful this would continue in the next four years, I have to say: I'm surprised you didn't do more than do these 20 pages. I must also tell you, Minister Bartenstein: When I read this through, I believed it was a carnival joke! I already hope that until Ashondi Wednesday, something more tangible will be done, which in terms of economic policy would also relieve and carry on small and medium-sized enterprises in the future. You all know that the small and medium-sized enterprises and the medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of our economy, and I can now remind you, because we have already spoken of so many broken electoral promises today, that you have also fallen over in every respect. I can remind the SPÖ that she has promised in her election programme to relieve those employees who earn less than €4,000 gross to pay €500. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! They wanted to double the negative tax on lower incomes. They wanted to improve the conditions for the commuters by raising the mileage and the penalty. They wanted to abolish the minimum and group taxation. In particular, I would remind your colleagues and current Secretary of State, Mr Matznetter, that he has not left an opportunity to stress again and again that without these points there would be no way for SPÖ to participate in government with the ÖVP. But the EIA is no better in these matters. It has also promised in its election programme that it will work for small and medium-sized enterprises, for medium-sized incomes. She had clearly said in the election campaign that she wanted to reduce the tax and tax rate to significantly less than 40 percent. It has the abolition of the inheritance and gift tax and further uniform discharge steps for small and medium-sized incomes. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, where have all these promises remained? – You have just fallen over your election promises as much as the SPÖ grandeurs here in this House! The bottom of the barrel is as follows: You have in Your electoral programme clearly said that there will be no additional burden on road users. Now you are not only burdening road users, but also quite clearly the transport industry. If you think you're going to contribute a small step towards remission with the abolition of the tax, I can tell you: That's ridiculous! If you accept the average mileage of a truck per year for a truck transport operator today, you will find that it has an additional burden of € 2 000 to € 2 500. – Transport operators will “thank you”! So a transport operator with only ten trucks – then he is still a micro-contractor – has an additional burden of € 20 000 to € 25 000 per year. – You will have to explain that to him! If an entrepreneur submits such a 20-page paper as an economic concept, he will not receive a euro from any bank for financing because it is unbearable, and he will be voting in no later than four years. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] With you, I hope you won't pick anyone in four years, because you can't stand with such a government programme. Finally, I could say the following sentence: The whole thing here is nothing but a poor packaging for an inconsistency package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14918	The next speaker is Mr Dkfm. Dr. stupid. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14939	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I have the pleasure of having a debate on a government programme in this House for the eighth time in this House, and I can tell you that I am honestly convinced that what we are discussing today is a very good basis for continuing a successful economic, financial and employment policy over the past seven years, a policy that has led to a top priority in Europe in terms of growth, employment, social security. In the field of growth: 3.2 percent economic growth, the highest in ten years, is much higher than the EU average. Employment policy: In recent years, we have always been among the best five out of 27 EU countries, whether it be total unemployment, youth unemployment or long-term unemployment. And social security: We are also here when we take the share of social expenditure on gross social product in fifth place in the EU as a measuring staff. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is a record of success, not after the election day. It is the result of a very consistent, sustainable financial and economic policy over the past seven years. This means that this government can build on a very healthy basis and shape the future. I also have to say something about the opinion poll I read yesterday in the “Kurier”. After that, most of the population of this government is looking forward to optimistically, especially on economic and social issues. This positive attitude, I believe, is quite a realistic assessment. I must say that the views of the opposition have also been very balanced. Peter Westenthaler meant that the ÖVP was following the SPÖ on the socialist path; he wanted to say that the ÖVP had given up too much. Strache says Dr. Gusenbauer is the first ÖVP Federal Chancellor with a red party book; that is, he says the SPÖ has given up too much. So if one opposition party says we've given up too much, and the other says that about the others, then the truth is right in the middle, ladies and gentlemen. The ÖVP has prevailed on important concerns, and the SPÖ has also expressed its concern – a good basis for the work of the next four years! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As the chairman of the Financial Committee in this House, I am very glad that clear confessions have been made here: first, on sound state finances, second on a policy “No new debt”, third on the statement “tax reform without counter-financing”. That means we're not doing any experiments. We can continue to build on a very good and solid basis in recent years. Let me also say one thing, ladies and gentlemen. It was said here by opposition speakers: Well, these are just headlines, just statements of intent. – Ladies and gentlemen, this is the political will of these two government parties! Be sure that we will also implement this political will over the next four years with hard work, with tough work, with hard negotiations. One last aspect of the infrastructure: Minister Faymann, you have been a very successful city councillor in Vienna for years. You are now responsible for the infrastructure, for something that is extremely important for the economic location. I can imagine that your friends in Vienna naturally hope that many of these funds will flow into the urban agglomerations. As a member of the forest district, I can only say: Please, don't forget the regions! We are always talking about a Europe of the regions. I know what I'm talking about. A border region, which stood half a century with its back to the Iron Curtain, now needs investment impulses. You have the means to do so, and I very much hope that you will not forget the regions. We will be able to observe you closely, and we will be able to visit you in the near future, because we simply want to make sure that these great opportunities we have with being back in the centre of Europe will also be used accordingly. I would like to take along colleagues from other regions, Mr Vice-Chancellor, to ensure that we extend this great investment offensive across Austria. Minister Bartenstein – he is not here now – has already been referred to as the “master’s location”. We will do everything we can to ensure that this country has a successful future in the next four years, in the combination of these two ministries, I believe, as political groups here in the House. The support of the two political groups has been given, and I am already looking forward to cooperation in these two areas.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15006	The next item is the speech by Mr Schalle. You've set the clock to 18 minutes. Is that a misunderstanding? [[Abg. Sound: (on the way to the speaker's desk) That's a misunderstanding!]] - Okay, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15045	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! My contribution to the debate today is marked by two findings: ‘Bundeskanzler at any price’ and ‘Schüsel, the negotiator phenomenon’. For, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the government programme and the distribution of resources is concerned, only these two statements deserve synonyms. After 102 negotiating days to put a government program on the table, which has 167 pages of patient paper and a variety of goals, but no means of implementation, is almost once again a performance – of course in a negative sense! In my opinion, this government programme is exactly the step back in fatal times of a great coalition in which nothing has gone on, namely economic and political downtime, apart from the fact that you, Mr Bundeskanzler, seem to be mere words. [[Abg. Kurt Eder: An old speech, no modern speech!]] [[Abg. Kurt Eder: Please speak more modernly!]] There you are already in a series with your predecessors, such as Vranitzky or climate. [[Abg. Kurt Eder: Who writes such speeches?]] In addition, you have responded to a distribution of resorts, which will still bring you a very bad end. Your constituency has become much faster and has already realized that you have broken almost all the constituencies. The government programme has not even been officially signed, since the first loads have already been opened: the increase of the mineral oil tax, of course at the expense of drivers and commuters, and the increase of health insurance contributions. [[Abg. Kurt Eder:... now from Westenthaler!]] [[Abg. Kurt Eder:... talk like that, don't you think?]] There is nothing significant about the fully promised exit from the Eurofighter treaties in your government program, not to mention the improvement of the families. And the so vehemently promised abolition of the study fees has even let the young people go from your own party to the barricades. They call upon the Commission and the Member States to: They did not deal with these issues at the ÖVP, but call social work an improvement instead of study fees. What really bothers me personally about your statements is the prolonged evasion of apprenticeship protection. With the current lack of skilled workers, this is really a mess. In my opinion, the Supreme Commandment would be to strengthen the apprentices' rights and to shatter the Youth Employment Act. Then we will finally get decent skilled workers. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] A functioning social system needs a thriving economy. What is expected of the economic policy of this Federal Government? – If you calculate all the announced increases, you will find additional revenue of €600 million, which of course goes at the expense of the working population and the middle class. This involves a loss of purchasing power and thus a deterioration of the economic situation. This federal government expects an economic growth of only 2.3 percent at the end of the legislative period. For this year, the first year of the new upturn, 3.2 percent is expected. Economic growth will therefore be below the magic 2.5 percent set by all economic researchers as a limit for a consistent level of employment. Thus, rising unemployment rates are expected – and you are predicting a reduction of 4.7 to 3.9 percent! I have my doubts as to how this should be done with regard to the unemployment rate. [[Abg. Kurt Eder: How high is it?]] Last summer, the ÖVP took over the long-standing demand of the abolition of the inheritance tax, which we and her have set up. Unfortunately, in the government programme, the abolition of this kind of tax has not been maintained, although it costs more than they bring. [[Abg. Kurt Eder: Do you inherit so much that you have a problem?]] - Not me. I would like to say one more thing here because I am a native Carinthian: Minister of Justice Berger! You may be a long-served SPÖ member, but first of all you should think about how you bring Mr Elsner back to Austria before you even think about the withdrawal from office of a deserved head of state! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A monster!]] Federal Chancellor! You haven't picked up a lot of applause with this government start yet. [[Abg. Kurt Eder: But neither do you!]] Party withdrawals and demonstrations are no pleasure either. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Mr. Schalle! You're supposed to be wrong!]] In the sense of Austria, however, I hope that your coalition partner will continue the path towards the welfare of Austria in recent years and will not be oriented towards your lip confessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15246	Next word comes Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Berger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15268	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to refer you to this House. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... for democracy, Mrs. Justice Minister!]] A first priority in my work will have to be the reform of criminal law. This follows already from the fact that at 1. January 2008 will enter into force the comprehensive reorganisation of the pre-procedure law decided in autumn 2004. In order for this to happen smoothly, extensive organisational measures – such as clarifying the division of labour and the cooperation of police and prosecutors, in the field of personnel development and training – as well as minor legislative adjustments to the harmonisation of the investigation procedure are necessary. Only when this major step has been taken will we be able to begin the redesign of the main and legal proceedings. In the context of criminal proceedings, but also, of course, far beyond that, the rights of the victims of crimes are a special personal concern to me. Developing a rightful criminal justice is one of the first-class challenges facing justice. In recent years, we have become aware of what the criminal justice owes to the victims and that criminal proceedings sometimes do not just remain guilty to the victim much, but in fact the situation of the victim often worsened. Criminal justice must enable victims to experience that their right to a fair response to the injustice suffered by them is taken seriously, and also to deal gently with victims in order to avoid further victimisations and traumatisations. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] At the legal level, the new pre-procedure law sets important and very grateful accents here. On the one hand, it is about extending legal reform to subsequent stages of the process. On the other hand, it will be crucial to enable the employees of the prosecutors and the courts through training courses to understand even better the particular situation of the victims of crime, especially the victims of acts of violence and violence. It is only on this basis that it is ultimately possible to meet the needs and rights of the victims fully. In this context, I recognise that the criminal justice cannot produce victim justice alone, but is dependent on close work alliances with other authorities, but also on various private institutions of psychosocial and financial assistance. In this situation, it is important to ensure effective and smooth interaction between the institutions involved by coordination measures in the interests of the victims, but also – and I say this with special emphasis – to enable the private bodies of victim assistance through adequate funding to play the role that only they can play. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Of course, the path taken by the Law on the Protection of Violence to oppose all forms of criminal violence must continue. This means in particular further steps to support women and children and especially old people who are threatened with violence in their social neighbourhood. We also need an evaluation of the measures taken on the basis of the recent legislation against stalking. I am also thinking of measures in the area of trafficking in human beings, in particular trade with women and children, and other forms of violence against migrants. High house! I believe that if we have now formed a large coalition, we are probably also guilty of using the specific opportunities of a large coalition to our electorate. That is why I do not want to avoid those difficult institutional questions which have been answering them for decades and which we can only solve with a corresponding majority of the constitution. This applies in particular to the clarification of the status of prosecutors in the overall structure of the public authorities and, accordingly, to the question of the relationship – the proximity or distance – of the prosecutors to the courts. More than on other issues, it will be a matter of finding a solution in close cooperation with those concerned whose professional image and professional understanding are, of course, largely affected. The fact that fast answers are neither desirable nor desirable here does not mean that there could not be a position here right now. I recognise the importance of a government independent activity of the public prosecutors for the functioning of the rule of law. I would also like to share the experience from the experiences in Italy, where in recent years it has become very clear how important it is to have strong and independent indictments for the preservation of the rule of law and its credibility. The constitutional repositioning of prosecutors should take account of these principles. Similarly, in particular with regard to independence, the constitutional anchorage of the legal protection officer in criminal proceedings and the development of the Human Rights Advisory Council as a genuinely independent control body with effective powers also applies. The Government Convention also provides for the creation of an internal system to prevent misunderstandings. I think that all these measures can only benefit justice, because in the democratic rule of law, the people's confidence in their justice is based on their transparency, proximity to citizens, responsibility and effective bodies of control and quality assurance. I would like to address another area of which I think reforms are pending: This is family law. I am aware that there are many different points of view here, I am also aware of the ideological sensitivity of these issues. Nevertheless, I believe that we should have a common starting point: Whenever adult people live together in the willingness to take care of each other and to be there for each other, society would probably be poorly advised not to recognize and support this willingness to join human solidarity – regardless of the sex of the partners. Similarly, whenever adult people are willing to take care of children, regardless of whether they are their own, this is also recognized. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Here the right must not be subject to the social reality already given today. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15331	It is now time for television broadcasting to end. There was a voluntary speaking time agreement for the transfer period, but I think it is nevertheless in the sense of your statement that I refer here to the voluntary time limit. Of course, you can also talk longer and longer, that's clear. The next item is the report by Mr Bundesminister für Innens Platter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15356	Madam President. Estimated Members on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is one of the safest countries in the world. This is a fact that has become almost self-evident for us, and it is a success that we must work out every day. Security is a lot. Security is actually a fundamental right for our citizens. Security is a central element of the quality of life of our population, and security is also an important success factor for Austria's economic location. Safety is shown not only because of nude numbers. Security must be experienced, but it must also be felt. The subjective sense of security of the Austrians is therefore undoubtedly the first goal and the primary task for me as Minister of the Interior. In recent years, great efforts and measures have been made in the field of internal security. The results are not only noticeable, but can be proved by facts and data. When I look at crime, crime in 2005, we have a 6 percent decrease compared to the previous year. When we look at the statistics in 2006, we again have a 2.6% reduction compared to 2005. As politicians, we can all be proud of it, but first and foremost this is a success and merit of our excellent police officers. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Our new police is the most modern and powerful police that Austria has ever had. It is therefore our obligation in the future to provide our police officers with the best possible conditions for fulfilling their often difficult work. Starting with state-of-the-art technology, the best possible equipment at the workplace, the renewal of the fleet, and the development of a new and uniform wireless network. Ladies and gentlemen! One of the main challenges for the interior resort in the coming years will be the expansion of the Schengen area. It's quite clear: The greatest possible safety for Austria must be ensured. The condition for actual border opening is the fulfilment of the Schengen standards in the new Member States, and the Schengen Information System must work technically properly. If these conditions are met, this means a new safety belt around Europe and thus additional security for Austria. In the end, however, Schengen can only enter into force if it works 1a. Ladies and gentlemen! Another challenge for Austria in the field of internal security is the European Football Championship next year, the EURO 2008. And we can say today, Austria is top fit for it. We are well prepared, the safety concept is ready. Our principle is: Welcome to football fans, but no chance for Hooligans. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Bravorufe at SPÖ.]] An important topic and a key challenge in the coming years remains the issues, the important issues of immigration, asylum and integration. Our line is clear, and our line remains clear: Quick help for those who have a right to our protection and support, but stop when it comes to abuse and asylum shopping, and above all zero tolerance and consistent action when it comes to crime. We were always, ladies and gentlemen, an open country for those who really needed our help and our protection, but Austria is not an open door for those who come to us under the cover of asylum, but think something quite different. In 2006, a reduction in asylum applications of 40.6 percent was recorded. This result gives us the right. The path is right, and we will continue to follow this path consistently. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Integration presupposes a new move: The Foreign Rights Package, which we have decided by a large majority here in Parliament, has now been in force for a year. We have the opportunity to regulate immigration clearly and clearly. Last year a 62 percent decrease was achieved. And it also applies to the future: Immigration can only be coordinated with the needs and needs, but above all with the possibilities of our country and our labour market, in the sense of Austria, in the sense of our population. We must promote integration where it is possible, and we must demand integration where it is necessary. We will therefore continue to take a sharper approach to illegal migration and to combat trafficking in human beings as well as tow crime. Of course, international cooperation is urgently needed, that is clear and clear. I would like to give you an example: We had yesterday the informal meeting of the EU Ministers of the Interior in Dresden. Austria and Germany have a pioneering role in data exchange in the field of DNA traces. [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign.]] Within one month we had 3 000 hits in the various crimes, 31 murders, in sexual More so and more! So it has already become a success story after a month, and I will also present in the near future the individual offences which we have clarified by this possibility. Austria and Germany thus have a pioneering role in the field of data exchange. Ladies and gentlemen! To conclude: On taking up her duties, Lese Prokop said that she put security at the centre of her work, so that Austria continues to be one of the safest countries in the world. This principle will also be my guiding principle. I will continue the path of my predecessor in her mind and in the sense of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15452	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15473	Dobar vecer, poštovane lady i gospodo! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! – There are so many happy that I cannot welcome everyone individually. Mr Platter, I am the first to dedicate myself to you, and then to Mrs Berger. Since you have now devoted relatively much time to the football European Championship compared to the sensitive issues of integration/migration, I can only express one hope here. If you say that we are top fit for the European football championship, then you certainly do not refer this to the Austrian national team, because it is not really top fit, so that it could be very huge there, but we can at least participate because we are an organizer country. But I am not responsible for sports; here speaks a true amateur. I now come to the areas for which I am responsible within the Green Group. Federal Minister! I am really mild today, not only because you are an ex-college from the National Council, especially because I am not really convinced that you like to do what you are doing now, but because I somehow believe you would have liked to remain the one you were before with the task area. That is why I am mildly voted and forgive you that you – and I can only say so – in a way down the policies of the past years... – it would be wrong to say: pray down – have spoken down and read down, and have hardly said anything about what would be necessary. After all, you have followed the discussions in recent years in connection with the Foreign Rights Package, and you should know what is actually needed. Nottut is now thinking about what the black-blue, black-orange foreign rights package for injustice in this country has created, which individual personal dramas trigger it, which injustice it has done and what it has done. If today the competent minister says: The fact that we have 62 per cent less residence permits – no, asylum applications are 40 per cent, I have taken good care of them, and I also know – 62 per cent less – that you have so meant – immigration, because the foreign rights package is so good, then, Minister, I would recommend you to look at whose burdens it is. [[Interim note by Federal Minister Platter]] This is at the expense of mothers and fathers waiting for their children, because family integration in this country is still quoted, and because only the family has rights, which is an Austrian family. A foreign family, even though the parents are still so good and work and everything fits, is not treated equally, but discriminated against because there is this quota of family integration. And this is gross injustice, Mr. Federal Minister, and now I say it, I have often said it – the family party ÖVP is not good at all. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] If, Mr Federal Minister, one thing were to happen, that is to say, what the Ministers have disregarded before you, but may now be happening through you – I am optimistic about that, namely, the recommendations of the Human Rights Advisory Council in connection with the implementation of the Foreign Police Act, but not just this law, and if this were to be noted in the Government Convention only somewhere with a word, then I would be even milder than I am already, but there is no word of it to read somewhere. I would have expected this from a Christian politician, who is now an interior minister, even if he does not like it so much, namely this reflection. This reflection on the fact that one can also admit that some do not succeed or that it now turns out that it was not the evil blues, the evil oranges that forced the ÖVP into things – the time limit is voluntary, please one more minute – but that this has come out entirely original and alone from the blacks in recent years, which has become law in connection with migration and foreign law in Austria, assisted by the reds who are now also in the boat and who do not intend to change anything here. [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Exactly!]] Finally, however, to Mrs. Dr. Berger, to our new Minister of Justice: I really wish you all the best out of deep conviction, because some of what is contained in the government agreement is absolutely supported and carried along by the Greens, and I wish her all the best, because she will not have it easy, because what was yesterday in the "ZiB 2" interview – and direct it to him, the few who are there by the ÖVP – by the Klubobmann Dr. Schüsel via TV was directed to a member of the government of a government coalition, that is to say, a naughtiness to the new Minister of Justice, because it was first wrong and is second – and that is now again my mild, positive interpretation – because he wanted to cast his own political failure as Chancellor, who was unable to offer to a national captain who breaks law and law in Carinthia, actually also, and obviously not now intended, because now he could, or so – where is Minister Faymann? He's not here right now! – Faymann can do it right away. He can give Mr. Landesrat Dörfler an instruction. And then, if the collected blue, BZÖ or what I know, how it is in Carinthia, team in Carinthia still steps the rule of law with feet, then this federal government can help the rule of law to break through by raising a ministerial charge. That's what Mrs. Dr. Berger thought about, and she's right. We are fully behind her in this regard.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15553	I would draw attention to that in the XIX. A call for order has been issued for the word ‘Frequentness’. Since we have already had this twice, and I believe that at the beginning every group may hit a little bit over the strands, I do not give it to you, but I would ask for moderation. I give the floor to Mr Parnigoni as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15583	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! It has been said several times today that Austria is one of the safest countries in the world. But this also means that it must be a permanent and great challenge, and we have to make it clear – and this has also been thought of – that we owe this mainly to diligent, responsible executive officials, who did not get rid of the shortage of personnel, who did not become discouraged from labour congestion, which was not partly disheartened by poor equipment, but actually carried out their job in full. As chairman of the Committee on the Interior, I would really like to thank Members of the Executive Committee for fulfilling their duties. [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. May. Stoisits.]] The goal of this coalition government – and the German Chancellor presented this – and an essential task for a future-oriented government work is to ensure freedom and security for all Austrians. This is a great challenge, because I can remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that we have had a huge increase in the rate of crime over the last seven years, even if we now have a very small reduction. It is even more worrying, however, that since the 1990s, when the education rate was over 50 percent, it has now fallen to 38.9%. This means that we have to put forth special effort here. It also proves, however, that the path that has been taken in these seven years has proved to be false to thousands of policemen who have tried not to give the executive all the possibilities. I am therefore very pleased that we have kept in the Coalition Convention if there is a need for more officials in this area to be implemented and implemented. Ladies and gentlemen! What we now need in the executive is that after the assembly of the guards we get peace into the safety executive, that after turning on the person carousel, which Minister Strasser in particular has operated, we are going to have no worries and no more fears about their job. I therefore believe that in future this project will also need an evaluation and permanent adjustment in this four-year legislative period. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that we also need to see the special feature of the fact that the requirements for executives between the city and the country are necessarily different. I believe, Mr Federal Minister, that I share your opinion and support you fully if you say: It is necessary that we provide the executive with the best conditions. We need, above all, the special motivation of our colleagues, which is important. That is to say, we need to improve the working conditions of the police; that is, we need to involve staff representatives in the question of how to deal with the changes in the Schengen process, where there will be a lot of questions about personnel, and we also need to find a reasonable relationship with them. We need to professionalise training, and it is also about improving the equipment of the executive. That's what the Coalition Convention says, and that's what I'm calling myself. It's quite clear: Cars over 300 000 km on the tacho are not suitable for the fight against crime. I am therefore glad that we have found a convention here. This will result in us having highly motivated, well-trained police officers who will guarantee the highest possible security for the population. Ladies and gentlemen! The clock has not been set, it would have been 4 minutes, and I do not want to take time for my colleagues. I would like to say that we are very interested in the fact that security in this country is once again at its highest level. I am convinced that if we come to a constructive cooperation, Mr. Federal Minister – I would be glad if that worked out, we already know each other from the time you were in the National Council – and I think that this will succeed, for the benefit of the Austrians, we can make a good contribution to security in this country together. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15643	Next item is the report by Mr Fichtenbauer. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15664	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! I speak as a judge of our group, and I cannot fail to remind the absent Minister of State Darabos of the fact that there are also night exercises in the military. Maybe someone can do something to him, which might be interesting. [[Abg. Heinzl: No one needs to do anything about you!]] – You don’t need to get upset, but it’s a fact I’ve been talking about. Mrs. Berger spoke about the protection of the victims. That's very good. In another phrase, she spoke out in favour of the need for the prosecution to be strong. – I don’t know a weak prosecution in Austria, it’s fully-dressed by law and authority, but the step into the phase of smooth rejection is an independent prosecutor’s office. This is an old dream of various political leaders, and as an example the Italian prosecutor is used. That's exactly the horror example. I recall the doping case that was started by the independent prosecution against Austrian athletes in Italy. To date, there is no serious procedural outcome. This comes out when a lawless prosecutor can act completely freely. And the protection of victims is not a single run, because victims can become innocent in the procedure too. No one seems to look at it in this context. Second point. In the economic chapter, there are a number of other things that the knowledgeable reader will find in the field of justice, especially civil law care. Offensive for young entrepreneurs is a kind of dangerous threat. Increase and strengthen the law-enforcement of economic trustees, notaries and lawyers – this is a kind of furor nesciendi, so wild anger to know nothing. Please, who has read that there is no full liability for notaries and lawyers? In the case of business loyalty, it is limited only in its capacity as auditor within the meaning of the Company Law Change Act 2005. Otherwise I recommend a look at § 1299 ff ABGB. There you will be able to read that there is a completely unlimited liability for the quoted professions. In the professions there is still something terrifying on page 40 of your convoluted. The aim is to strengthen competition in the professions and to make access more transparent. Please, it's completely transparent! I do not see any intrusive access to the profession in its rules. Competition is also fully available. Then there is the passage to remove the territorial protection regime. There is no territorial protection scheme. They're not a smoker. There is no more than the system of fixed positions of the notary, as in all Western countries and also eastern European countries. A look at the state defense. The project is defined very positively to provide a third for investment in the future. This can only be done if the budget is raised. This new Minister of Defence will also have to face and tolerate the budget struggle. In Austria, we have 0.7 percent of GDP, Europe averages 1.2 percent of GDP, and if They take into account the current distribution of the budget – 60 percent go to the staff, 20 percent to the company, and 20 percent to invest – as all that is ambitiously defined in the federal army in 2010, especially not the upgrading and modernisation of the newly established army, and in particular the urgent command, the militia, without which the new army will never and never have an ability to exist in their quality after 2010. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15701	Mrs Fekter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15722	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! I would particularly like to welcome the new Minister for Justice today, because I am likely to work with her most intensively as a Judge. We have an introduction to the judicial programme, which reads: “Government parties will do everything they can to ensure the functioning of justice, to guarantee and enhance fundamental and freedom rights and to promote the economic location.” We then set priorities in five areas. First of all, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Justice should be a service to citizens. We have provided service quality for the development of consumer rights, the creation of a victim coordination body, the acceleration of procedures, particularly in the case of road accidents, the reform of maintenance law. The second major issue concerns the economic location and quality. This should be positively stimulated. There are innovations in competition and antitrust law. We will improve and facilitate business succession. We are creating a completely new mobile property right with a corresponding register, and for example with regard to the stock options there is to be more transparency. Fairness in residential law also belongs in this area. We will look at exactly where there is abuse in the residential area. We'll turn it off. We will certainly promote new construction, but we will not turn the wheel back to the last century. The third priority is social policy. It is important to create a stable framework for this, based on values and human dignity. We will keep where it has proved to be, and we will change where it is necessary, especially on the very modern issues in our society. That's how we're going. For example, on legal and ethical issues in human medicine, hold a survey to provide answers to these new questions. And we'll evaluate family law. Even if the media always understands that we should introduce the gay marriage, the government programme of the horizon is much more, much more. We are orienting ourselves to new goals in the new family law. We have defined these by trying to combat poverty, provided that they meet families, by increasing the employment rate of women, by eliminating discrimination, by providing age protection as a matter of family law, and by promoting family solidarity. The anti-violence programme, which is contained in the Coalition Convention, is also part of this company's law. The fourth point is the fight against crime and the expansion of security. The Minister has already said a lot here, but, Mrs Minister, we do not want any Italian conditions in the fight against crime and in security. That is why we will not implement a freedom of guidance of prosecutors, but we will anchor them in the Constitution and create a new control body here in Parliament. We want to control the indictment monopoly here in a subcommittee, just as we control the intelligence monopoly activity in subcommittees. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As a fifth priority, we see the wishes of the standings, namely those working groups active in the field of justice: Judges, prosecutors, notaries, lawyers. They must then implement the laws, and therefore we have included their proposals in part. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! The judicial committee has a consensus climate. Since you are already my sixth minister, whom I have in the Committee on Justice – including male colleagues – and we have a very good climate in the Committee on Justice, I am convinced that we will continue to do so, and the ÖVP, Mrs. Minister, will support you in doing so.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15790	The next item is the speech by Mr Dolinschek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15811	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! If there is now a large coalition and, so to speak, a two-thirds majority here in the House, as you have said in your government programme, there is a state and administrative reform that you can do without a doubt now. It has long been time to implement certain reforms in this area: We all know the problem with the area of competence and competence between the Federal Government and countries, where we say, of course, this belongs to one hand, but on the other hand, we do not want the Federation to do everything now, and the individual countries have their concerns over and over again. I am thinking only of the Youth Protection Act and of the fact that it is completely absurd to have nine different regulations in Austria. I also think about how difficult it is to bring individual countries to a denominator. I hope so. But that this is finally happening during this period and we have uniform provisions here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The same applies to the construction regulations: We still have nine different construction regulations. When I think of the law on equal treatment for disabled persons, it will be necessary – and this would be an occasion for this – that the rules of construction are simply the same and that they have the same construction regulations in the individual states. I know that this is not always very easy, but with a two-thirds majority, it is much easier to spend than always being used with a veto. – The one thing. In order to combat undeclared work, which has already been discussed today, I have heard with goodwill that there will be increased control of foreigners' employment, that in future, general companies will also be liable for subcontractors in social security matters if they owe these amounts. We know the problem of people being registered, but social security contributions, both the service provider's contribution and the employee's contribution, are not transferred to the social security institutions and here a big hole is clap. I think it's right for you to do that. That's exactly the way I imagine it. As far as key workers are concerned, I must say: Look at it. Key workers are those forces that have to earn enough that have to earn above the normal average. This is similar to the way Holland does in football. There a club can buy only one player who earns much more than everyone else, so that he can't afford so many and don't lose his own talents. This must also apply to the Austrian labour market and to Austrian workers. Now a word on traffic and infrastructure. The Federal Minister is not here now, but I have also heard with goodwill, as Federal Minister Faymann has said, he wants to treat the Koralmbahn as a priority. I have to say, as a Carinthian or as a South Austrian, it is of course excellent if you hear something like this, because we now have the historic opportunity to expand the Koralmbahn. A rapid expansion would be a century chance for our federal state, for the southern states of Styria and Carinthia. The head of the industrial association of Carinthia, Othmar Petschnig, has also said that the Baltic-Adriatic axis is to be drawn through Austria as a transport axis, because Slovenia and Hungary are quite simply having financial problems. This would be very, very good for the economic location at all, and, of course, co-financing for construction and planning measures would also be given. – We should not miss this opportunity, we should take this opportunity. A short while ago, to protect consumers. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I have noticed that consumer protection is not, in fact, the content of this declaration of government, although, I very much support, we now have our own Committee on Consumer Protection here in Parliament. It is important to strengthen and expand consumer protection, because in a globalised world, the cases for consumers have become considerably larger. By selling on the Internet, by travel events, misleading advertising and so on and so on, the consumer is faced with incredible things today. There is a simple need for action here, and you in the Federal Government should also have a heart for consumers and strengthen this consumer protection.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15871	The Federal Minister for Health, Dr. Kdolsky, is next reported. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15893	Madam President. High house! I have had the opportunity to get to know the concerns and needs of sick people, the working conditions of doctors and non-medical staff, colleagues, and I know about the challenge of controlling, planning and financing one of the world's best health systems. This is where we need to consistently develop the successful path of health reform in 2005. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Austria has an excellent health system. This proves not only international studies on the quality of medical services, but also studies that demonstrate patient satisfaction. And this assessment is also covered by my personal experiences. I would like to give you impressive figures, because I think that too deserves to be mentioned here in this House. Some 20,000 hospitals and 75,000 nurses in 260 Austrian hospitals perform their services for patients on about 18 million days of coating, and that is impressive. Care for 2 150 pharmacies Austria with medically necessary medicines and the necessary supplies, and around 300,000 highly trained health professionals are working around the clock. But it doesn't matter on its own. In addition to a highly qualified training, in addition to a comprehensive offer for all those who need it, we need to make room for time – time when the doctor talks with the patient; time during which the sister has the opportunity to give their patient a hand. We must create this time – we must give time! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] As a new Minister of Health, I see my task in setting up the framework of this system in such a way that patients can be optimally cared for and given the time they need by their treating doctors and by all their caregivers. The highest health priority must be for the person in need of treatment and his needs. Administration, bureaucracy and accounting are tools for the performance and administration of tasks, but should never be self-evident. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is therefore essential to consistently further develop modern information and telecommunications technology to make optimum use of the possibilities of the e-card. We will work quickly to achieve this potential for the whole To make use of Austria – for the benefit of patients and for the benefit of the treating doctors, who are thereby significantly relieved. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, the cost of administration should also be reduced in order to make more money available for services to the patient. In addition to the hospital area, however, it is becoming increasingly essential to put the family doctor in the foreground, the family care, the care, the family doctor as a lotsen for the patients through the diversity of the medical care offer. In an ageing society, people want to be cared for and cared for at home for as long as possible. The doctor is crucial for these people in long-term care and in finding management. For this reason, domestic doctors must be given an adapted task profile, and the training of doctors must be adapted to this need. With regard to the provision of medical services, the project of establishing contemporary forms of cooperation will be further pursued. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Prevention, an essential point not only in the nicotine sector, but also in the alcohol and drug sectors, is an essential point for the youth sector, because youth is the future of our country of tomorrow. I would therefore like to focus on the concerns and concerns of young people in this policy. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] And precisely because young people are rightly critical, we want politically interested, politically judgmental young people, who decide and shape their own future. Let me say one more word about my competence as a family minister in spite of unsolicited childlessness. We can only talk about concrete measures if we look at the forms of the family structure in Austria of the 21st century. ==References====External links== The old-born form of father-mother-child structure is often replaced by patchwork families, alone parenting. Problems of reconciling work and family life are essential challenges for a modern family policy. It is about a better compatibility of work and family, the further development of childcare, the financial security of families, especially young families and large families. However, it is also about strengthening family policy institutions, and it is about strengthening and improving protection against violence in the family. [[General condolences.]] Thank you many times. I am looking forward to the joint cooperation. There are many cooperation projects in this area and there are large projects in it. Let's attack them – and let's go together for the next few years! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16005	Mrs Bures has been reported next word. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16026	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! High house! Yeah, I've done a lot as a woman's minister. I think we have managed with our own women's ministry to get a strong voice for women again, and I would like to start a change of course with today's Minister of Women. I would like to start a new era in women's policy, because I think that after seven years, in which there has unfortunately been a lot of stagnation in women's policy, it is important that we repeat a lot in this area. I have experienced in my parliamentary experience over the past few years that I really do in you across all political borders... – Mr Kukacka [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] They were not really an ally on women's issues, but many colleagues were closest allies. That is why I am looking forward to working together, especially here in the House. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are concerned with equal opportunities and fairness towards women. Righteousness of opportunity – it is not a privilege or a grace that women receive, but it is a right that women have. Therefore, we should strive to make it possible for us women to live their lives the way it meets their individual needs and desires. I can assure you: Women don't want any regulations from us. They also do not want to be led or taught by us, and they do not want policies that make them rules, but what they want is to be able to develop and live independently. And this is actually our task to give women these choices and to create the necessary framework conditions for them. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] I am looking forward to this task, because today's speeches on the declaration of government, i.e. the parts we have heard, have shown that we have strong allies, i.e. in the Minister of Justice, who addressed the question of living together and a modern family reform, where no form of living together should be discriminated against, but also in the Minister of Health who spoke of the diversity of living together. That gives me courage and joy. I believe that in this way and with these allies we will indeed be successful in women's policy. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] I would perhaps like to briefly outline the three most important areas for me, which we also held in the Convention of Labour: Firstly, the fight against poverty. Poverty is female, the majority of the population is female, and yet we know that in the important social areas women are still in the minority. As a rule, women on the labour market are more difficult and generally less money is available. Women have lower incomes, resulting in lower pensions and are therefore more often affected by poverty. And what's so important to me is to stress that this is not a natural law. It doesn't have to be. And our task in the next four years will be to change something. Who would have imagined until recently that, with a minimum pension and an increase to € 726, 150 000 women will be taken out of the poverty threat? This is a very important step towards combating poverty in women. Who would have thought a few months ago or a year ago that we would come to a needs-oriented minimum guarantee in Austria? Women in particular are thus protected from poverty. And who would have thought that the social partners together would make the proposal: yes, a general collective agreement, 1 000 € minimum wage. And that's exactly what women will benefit from. We will be able to close a piece of income shears between men and women by doing so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The second important point to me is the real compatibility of work and family. The best instrument against poverty is employment and income. In order to reconcile work and family, we need childcare facilities that actually meet the needs of mothers, fathers and children. And I am pleased that today all have welcomed the flexibility of the child's money, that we give families the option if they are shorter at home, that they get a higher child's allowance, namely 800 €, and if they are longer at home, then the 436 €. That's what everyone welcomed today, but it was a hard ring. It doesn't matter – we've gotten through, and that's good because it's good for the families in Austria. And that's what I'm looking forward to. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] And the third priority for me is the fight against violence against women, not tolerance in violence against women. We have noted in the Labour Convention that we want to better equip intervention agencies against violence, that we want to expand emergency homes, that we, and the Minister of Justice, have said it, here too, she is a close ally – as far as the importance of victim protection is concerned, actually want to improve. But it is also about breaking taboos, changing old patterns of thinking and reaching awareness or further awareness in executive and judicial matters. And I would also like to do all this with all women working in networks in women's projects, initiatives, NGOs. And I tell you, we have a good chance, we have good conditions to create more fairness for women in Austria. We are very many women in this government. I'm so happy about that. That alone is not a program yet, but I would say that is once a good start that we are so many women. Also today, the remarks made by my colleagues in the government have shown that we also have some male allies in the fight for more rights and opportunities for women. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And – this is the most important thing, so to speak, because being a woman alone is not a programme – we have a programme, we have a work programme. This will bring women a good deal further over the next four years. I'll work on it, too, and make it feel for women. I look forward to a good cooperation with you all.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16135	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Lunacek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16156	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank and in the House! No one's here at the gallery now. I have not changed my role now to the Greens' Women's or Health spokesperson, but these debates are so structured that they do not always come to an end. However, I would just like to say that I have heard from the last ministers who spoke, but I wish that if I listen to this, they will prevail in this government, because if it goes after them, it sounds like some of what I have heard here, but not quite as bad as we have heard so far. I hope that this does not remain wishful thinking, now not in my interest only as a greener or as an opposition, but in the interests of women in this country, whether they have children or not, whether they are heterosexual or lesbian, whether they live in a relationship or not, but for all. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Fortunately, the subject of the same-sex partnerships has been addressed by the new Minister for Justice, Berger, because the government programme itself had nothing to read about what was not at all true to the SPÖ's promises, because they promised everything in the election campaign, not only the registered partnership, but even the marriage, Mr Bundeskanzler. We've gotten used to the fact that promises are not being fulfilled. And if you, Federal Chancellor, have said this morning, in the reform of matrimonial law, civil law will also be the question of non-discrimination-free legal systems. I can only say: We have already debated this in this House of many times, and there are also proposals. The problem is implementation, and it is still very urgent. I can only repeat what my colleague and President of the National Council, Eva Glavischnig, said in the morning: This is also about freedom. And Mrs Fekter meant that it was also about fundamental rights and rights of freedom, including those of the lesbian and gay couples and the people with a not heterosexual but other sexual orientation. It is also about freedom and freedom. So take seriously what the Minister of Justice and others have said here and actually do something! Then: Another four years wait until another government comes and finally gives these people the rights in this country, that is not to say to those people, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And now a change in the field of European policy, foreign policy and development cooperation. – Here I have been so pleased to note the beautiful words and Europe as an opportunity and also the change in the name of the ministry, that the problem is only if you do not change the content, or if you do not increase a European policy, a foreign policy orientation, perhaps also a peace policy-oriented one here, then the change of name and the beautiful words do not benefit much, Mr Chancellor and Mrs Minister. In particular, I would like to address a subject where I already have the impression that this government is doing something like refusal of reality here, namely the question of accession negotiations with Turkey. Mrs Minister, you said today that the aim is to cooperate with Turkey in a tailor-made way. This may be the objective of this government, but as a European framework, accession is still agreed. I don't know – you were there, I wasn't – but I think the goal is still accession. It is unclear whether this will really be the case in ten years, but you can't negotiate anything where you don't know what you're negotiating with. And then another thing: I mean, if you want to find out, or if you also want to anchor it with two-thirds majority, that in ten years, in 15 years, there will be a referendum on Turkey's accession, you can do that, but you will not be in the government in these ten years. So I would like to ask you to distance yourself from such populist promises and rather to work on what is really important in Europe. Although my watch is already shining and my colleague says that I have to stop briefly on development policy, on the finances. - There's nothing in there! We do not know how to create these €200 million a year. And one last thing, something that really upset me: They want to link development cooperation with the countries of origin in the form that these states must sign the withdrawal agreements of refugees, migrants. Mrs Minister and Mr Bundeskanzler! When I read that, I thought, Is that really what you're serious about? Do you want to say to the key countries of Austrian development work: You only get more money if you sign withdrawal agreements at the same time!Unknown term type: "%s".? That's what I'm looking at when you do it! That is contemptuous, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16226	The honourable Member has now referred to an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16251	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! Mrs Lunacek said earlier that we Social Democrats had promised everything before the election in terms of gender partnership, but kept nothing. I'm actually correcting: We have promised before the election that we are committed to a registered partnership, and that is still the case.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16278	Mr President, this was not an actual correction, it was a debate contribution. [[Abg. Brosz: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Einm) Gusenbauer gives re-help in actual corrections! You may be able to use that!]] The next item is Mrs Oberhauser's speech. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16315	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Austria is in possession of one of the best health care, but this has unfortunately already received small hair cracks in recent years. In order to stop this process, some efforts will need to be made to take some innovative ideas, but also to take a common approach. And I believe that social-democratic manuscript is particularly marked in the health programme. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have undertaken to guarantee security of supply for all people, not for a few, but for all. This too is an objective of social democracy which it has always maintained both in the election campaign and in its government programme. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] So we succeeded in getting away from the system of health taxes for the first time, towards a system of more solid and just funding. We all know that it is mainly elderly, chronically ill and multi-morbid patients who are under the prescription fees – or should you say “packerl fees” better? - have to suffer in particular. It is a truly revolutionary step that we have succeeded in achieving a two-percent cover on monthly income for exactly these people in the area of prescription fees. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, I do not make any secret that the SPÖ would have preferred to put the funding of the health system on a broader and more socially just basis. But that was unfortunately not negotiable like some other points with the ÖVP either. Nevertheless, I firmly believe that we do not need to generate for this government programme, and I would like to try to outline some of the key points here: An extended prevention on a content, structural and, above all, on a financial basis, defined in a prevention law, should enable us to pick people up at the different levels of their lives. And there. It is particularly in the field of children and young people that we must ensure that addiction prevention is performed not only in the field of nicotine, but also by alcohol and drugs, so that we protect these young people from getting on a path that costs a lot of money first and will, second, significantly hinder them in their further life and their future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But also the implementation of non-smokers protection in locals on a legal basis and the enforcement of strict regulations will be carried out by this government. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The further expansion of integrated care will ensure that the processes in the health care system are structured in such a way that the prevention through the diagnosis for treatment, rehabilitation and care in the right order are provided by the right people and, above all, with the right quality the services. It is especially the health care workers who carry with great ambition, with high ethics, high morality and a high level of labour force and their health. And precisely these people have recently faced an increasing number of problems. On the one hand, this is the increasing documentation, an extravagant bureaucracy that prevents people from working on patients. It will be part of our government work. In order to guarantee training in health care, it will be necessary to invest in the training of various health professions. And we don't remember that we make the nursing profession a teaching profession, no, we want to raise it to an international level and bring it where people who work in it also deserve it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There will also be a lot to invest in the training of doctors. And above all, Mr Bartenstein, it will also be the working time of doctors in hospitals, which we will have to discuss again in the next few days, and we already have some experience in how we deal with it. I think what we owe the patients, at least these are doctors who have rested and who do not have to work for 70 or more hours in the service of the patients. Let me conclude by saying: With the new Minister of Health, Dr. Andrea Kdolsky, a long common path binds me, which is characterized by commons, quite positive martial culture, cooperation, but also friendship across all political and ideological boundaries. Subjectivity and human beings have always been our common way, and that is what should shape the future. The programme we have to implement together is ambitious, but I am confident that we will achieve much together for the people of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16415	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16436	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Kdolsky, you have told us a lot of numbers today – we now know how many doctors work, we know how many pharmacies we have, how many non-medical staff – but I think you have have forgotten very important figures, namely that health insurance contributions are increased by 0.15 percent for all, and that despite the promise of the ÖVP, there is no increase at all; the SPÖ only wanted to tax the rich. Now we see what we have after the election: All patients are asked to check out. Mr Bundeskanzler, because you said that was moderate, I would like to point out to you that: So for the worse. Earnings are 0.15 percent increase in additional labour costs already a large amount! – Apart from that, in the 100 days when you have negotiated or have not negotiated here, you have not even managed to negotiate the exact distribution of these contributions, which is service providers, which is part of the service. You prefer to delegate this to the social partners. You didn't find a solution. It's actually a scandal. They have not found a solution for the social assistance workers. A second important thing, a second important number, is for me the so-called cover of self retention. There's a lot I've heard right now, how great and how great that is, but how can I imagine it as a patient? Now every patient has to go to the doctor with his paycheck and say: Doctor, look, I've already paid so much in the year, the 2% are exhausted!Unknown term type: "%s".? – So this is a bureaucratic obstacle, a bureaucratic effort that will cause enormous costs. You obviously didn't think about how you did this. Or just as bureaucratic an effort will be the lower prescription fees at generics. Mrs. Dr. Kdolsky, you know that the doctors prescribe drugs with which they have had good experience. You can't ask the patients to say: Mr. Doctor, please, prescribe a generic for me now, because then I will pay less prescription fee! – More meaningful would have been that you would have reduced VAT on medicines. That would have been something! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Or the much praised incentives to participate in precautionary programmes. Incentives, these are beautiful, pious statements of intent, they alone are without substance and without salary, so free according to the motto: if I don't continue to know... – We've heard all of this today. My preliminary speaker from SPÖ said that the health system in Austria has got some hair cracks in recent years. – I tell you, these were very massive cracks, not just some hair cracks. We're in a situation today that we have a two-class medicine. They are looking at the social status of people today at the smile. And here I see no way in your government programme, in your government statement, I see no approach at all to how patients can afford tooth replacements in future. Instead, take They prefer to buy that the Austrians then pilge at the border, and in Hungary we have the big dental clinics that establish themselves there. These are states like in the USA that come here to Austria. Mrs. Dr. Kdolsky, let me say a sentence on your role as a family minister: Many of your somewhat cynical comments I make Your personal destiny back, but one thing I would like to say to you: The uniqueness of marriage and family should be preserved. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And if, as a family minister, you still confirm in an interview today that you are disturbing children in a noble restaurant, then I think it is a smooth mistake that you have taken over this office. If you had character, you'd have to relinquish your office now. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But maybe you can do it with Mr Darabos, maybe you could make an internal rochade. I don't know, I don't think he's having a problem with children, maybe you don't have a problem with the gun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16518	Next item is the report by Mr Jakob Auer. 4 minutes of time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16542	Madam President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! If you have been following, discussing, experiencing every declaration of government since 1983, you can see that nothing has changed. The government submits a programme, formulates objectives, and the opposition does not fall within the scope of criticism. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You haven't changed either!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! Although they have started weak today, they are all the more so left to do so. I need to write this to you in the main book. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For if such criticism is already practised, you should at least know that the result, as Austria stands today, is not something that this new government has to answer, but the previous governments. And these previous governments have worked quite positively. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's it!]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Take note of this, ladies and gentlemen. This also applies to those who today are particularly pleased to sit on the government bank. Ladies and gentlemen! I have a nice issue here, “Discouragements”. This is what the well-proven, very excellent bank director of the BAWAG Novotny has sent us these days: “Reiches Österreich”, I read here. It can also be seen that the savings ratio of private individuals in Austria was better than that in America, better than that in many European countries. So obviously, ladies and gentlemen, this is not only true of the opposition. The best investment for many speakers in this House would be to travel across Europe in the next few months. They would then blatantly return home to Austria and know how positive this country is. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Three points: Budgetary policy. I am pleased that it has been made clear that Austria is still positive in terms of budget, indicators, export figures and so on. Let us completely compare our country, our figures with those of our competitors in Europe. Let us compare this country, ladies and gentlemen. And one thing can also be held: The budget results were at least always better than forecast than estimated to have been clearly recorded once. I am therefore looking forward to the positive cooperation with the new Secretary of State Matznetter. I am sure that he will be able to defend the new figures and facts in the future, ladies and gentlemen, when he has the other side to light up. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I don't think so!]] The second point: Financial compensation. I'm really excited... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] I am very excited that Mr Gaßner, whom I very much appreciate as the mayor of Schwerberg in Upper Austria, will now act as a fellow fighter here, as he has explained today. Dear Kurt Gaßner, you're not here now, but if 50 percent of what you've called for in recent years, we're going to be very positive in the communities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Before I come to the third point on financial compensation: It will certainly be exciting here, because very often governments, the Federal Government have implemented projects in this way: delivered to the federal states, the federal states have passed it on to the municipalities even faster. It was only in the task of contributing the financial resources that one was quite a little more restrained. That's what I've got to say. And the third point: It is positive to mention that a clear commitment to strengthening rural areas has been made, to the new and diverse facets of rural development, freedom of genetic engineering, to the perception of the opportunities of rural areas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It was just a number of words: There are over 500 000 employees in this rural area. We'll all work together here. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure there will be exciting four years, there will be challenging four years, there will be quite ambitious programmes, implementations. The opposition is also cordially invited!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16648	Mrs Haubner's next speech. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16669	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the government! I would like to express a few thoughts about women's policy and the family policy of this new government. Today, I have read an interview by the new Minister for Women in the press, asking her what her big goal is. She says that politics should not dictate to women or to families how they should live. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Exactly!]] It's about framework conditions so that every woman can live the way she wants. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Exactly!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If this is the change of course that the Minister of Women has spoken about, it is a change of course that started seven years ago and which I can absolutely stress. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Then it can only be better!]] [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: That was no freedom of choice!]] A change that women can decide whether they are employed, whether they agree or whether they are at home – that is exactly what we started seven years ago in improving for women in the field of pension systems, in the field of child training, in the area of minimum pensions and the like, and I am really pleased that the new Minister of Women is continuing this path, because it is a good and right way. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: We had to improve!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I have a little trouble or concern when I look at the tasks of the Ministry of Women – also the budgetary measures. I am afraid that the Ministry of Women will unfortunately only be a symbol ministry, because what I am missing – I have mentioned it before – is the progressive and forward-looking approach of making a women's ministry from the outset a ministry of equality and also involving men's agendas, because we can only better implement the reconciliation of work and family in a spirit of women and men. It must not be that there is a step back and that the compatibility of work and family is again assigned exclusively to women. A few thoughts about the family: In the government program – especially in the introduction – there is only one sentence about the families, and in my opinion this is a very thin confession when we look at the other chapters, where very much – sometimes very lyrical – is written about the area. I think it must still be undisputed that the family is a supporting pillar of solidarity between generations. I am pleased that the childcare allowance is now undisputed that it has not been converted into an income-dependent childcare allowance, but that it has remained a family benefit. But, ladies and gentlemen, real flexibility really looks different. To increase the earnability limit only minimally and thereby make management more complicated and expensive and to give two options models, one with the 18 months also less money – that is, 1 500 € – for the families, which is a reflection of false facts and no flexibilization that deserves to be called here. What I miss – because I remember the discussions here in the House very well from the Social Democratic Group – is the father's month. I have always said that there should be a voluntary father's month immediately after birth. Now far and wide of a father's month is no longer the point. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Did you put him through? - No!]] In addition, this programme does not contain any reference to a family-friendly work environment: What incentives can be created? It also says quite lapidar that more childcare places are to be created. How do you want to create them? With what means? There is, I think, still a need for information. Finally, let me say very briefly that I very much welcome the fact that families in their diversity are regarded by all as very valuable and that child welfare in particular has to be the focus. We will observe very closely, especially in the new family law, which has been announced, where there is a need for action and where we can also make our suggestions. To you, dear Mrs Family Minister: Whether you have children yourself or not – I think that's secondary: I expect a family minister to have a positive attitude towards children, because children are our future. It is not about playing out childless against children's empire, but about the fact that those who have children are particularly supported and promoted by those who care for the elderly who provide important social services. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This family policy path has been taken seven years ago, and I hope you do not leave this path either. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16808	Mrs. Federal Minister for Education, Science and Culture Dr. Schmied is next reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16830	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today I am in front of you to make my first statement on my subject of education and culture. I have the strength to be absolutely convinced of the importance and importance of education and culture for our country. Education, supplemented by further education and training, is the key to the tasks we are assigned here in Europe at the beginning of a new century. Only through the results of education processes and the importance of education, particularly in the thinking of the citizens of our country, will we be able to succeed in the field of global competition of services. It is also, in particular, the task of policy to make this importance of education clear and to make visible on concrete examples. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Education processes are often long, costly, sometimes laborious ways. Millions of people in this country work on this task of learning – every day and often with total commitment and great sacrifices. To her – our children, the pupils, the teachers, the teachers, her booths, the parents, single mothers, also the grandparents, all of them – I think in these first days, at the beginning of my work as Minister of Education. Yours is my attention and respect. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I promise you – especially the parents – that I will offer my whole commitment to put myself in your position, to listen, to understand the concerns and to act as well as I can. There cannot be a successful education system without full cooperation of all parties, and no new course in education policy can emerge. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The focus must be on individual people and above all on the joy of learning. Investment in education is expensive, but there is no way to go. It would be much more expensive for our country not to focus on investment here. This idea will also guide me in the negotiations on my ressort budget, and I am very sure that in my talks with the Minister of Finance I will also find the support of the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The link between education and art and culture in a future ministry will help to expand our field of vision. One of the terrible ideas for me is that of a society or a state without culture. It would probably be a place of roughness and inhumanity. But I want a country of fairness and justice. One of the main concerns of culture is what we call art: Art – a basic food for spirit and soul. It serves us as a comfort, as an incentive, as an incentive, as a rivet, as an encouragement, often also as a school of contradiction. Art can heal. Art can irritate. Politics must be committed to the great cultural heritage of this country and preserve it alive. Of course, it is very important that our great attention be paid to artists in particular. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Austrian politics must be committed to artists. The artists are nothing in my imagination and no one is obliged except high and highest quality. I will make a hearty effort to put this attitude into action as a minister of culture. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! All those who know me know that my heart is beating for education and culture. You will find in me an enthusiastic partner and, if necessary, a hard fighter. Here in the House I expect intensive political debates. I call for respect in political dealings with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16918	As the last one from the government, Mr. Dr. Hahn is now speaking. - Please, Minister. - I'm sorry, I've now said "deputies". Minister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16939	I did not have this preference in this house; it was another one. – Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I should like to begin by congratulating you very warmly. I am really happy to be here among you, and I know and am convinced that it will not have been the last time. Science and research are key tasks for a modern society and for a modern state. We live in a knowledge society, and I am also very happy and happy about the wise and wise decision that this situation has also been taken into account when a separate science and research department is established again. - It's going to happen in Bälde. In this context, while my colleague Schmied already had his first budget wishes, I still have hopes or wishes regarding some small competence consultation. I hope that this can be taken into account and that science and research in particular will bring the ratio to fruition and will not give priority to small-scale shillings. Ladies and gentlemen! Together with the scientific community, together with all those involved in the design of the Austrian research landscape, I want to work to ensure that Austria always exists, which is important for the good future of our country: promoting bright minds, creativity, curiosity, desire for research, experimentation, courage to pursue new ways, without forgetting the ways of the past, and finally modern working conditions and the means necessary for successful work. Ladies and gentlemen! During today's long-lasting day here in the house it has repeatedly accompanied the discussion about study contributions – "purchased" would be the wrong term, I think. In order to clarify this right from the outset: I fully support the contributions to study because they are nationally effective and meaningful and internationally necessary. There's no way past that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Since you never paid any...!]] This has also been demonstrated by the debates – including the opposition – and the requests. – As a longtime opposition politician, I know what I am talking about. It is the privilege of the opposition to make proposals and suggestions that sound very interesting when it comes to further development, the differentiation of a system, but it is the government's task to review these ideas for their feasibility. [[Abg. Sburny: I didn't think you were so scary!]] [[Abg. Ollinger: That was the system of enlightened absolutism!]] In this sense, I can only now answer Klubobmann Cap, who asked me if I would be attending universities in the near future. I can assure him that I'm not going to attend some, but all the universities, and unlike him, I'm not worried when I go to universities. – Perhaps he has difficulties at the moment or has difficulty in participating in and similar events. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But it is about – and this is absolutely necessary, and I am grateful that this was also set out in the Government Agreement – to further develop existing systems. I am very close to the wishes of my colleague, Dr. Schmied, as regards, for example, the question of the budgetary increase in scholarships in my area. I think that is the most central and priority measure in this context. It would be nice if it would take a long time to get from the 175 million maybe in Bälden to 200 million €. We could, I think, make a lot of sense here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It will also be necessary to further develop the clearly unknown credit model for the financing of study contributions. [[Abg. Oils: Why do you think?]] I will also have talks with the credit device, perhaps also in the inspiration of the Australian model, where there are considerations and possibilities to start the repayment at a later date, because it is well known that not every first salary has been done to serve loans already. [[Abg. Oillinger: I think so!]] Here too, possible and necessary further developments are useful. Finally, it is an interesting, stimulating idea, and I can assure you that already this week, under the leadership of my home, the interministerial working group will be set up, which will develop a concept to which voluntary work can also lead to the recognition or refunding of study contributions. [[Abg. Oillinger: Which Ministries?]] – I can tell you this: the Social Ministry, the Ministry of Youth, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Finance. [[Abg. Oils: What do they have to do with it?]] – If I had said, under the leadership of my house, I would think that this implicitly includes the Ministry of Science, but I like to repeat it: logically the Ministry of Science also. I think we will focus on education in the broadest sense. Of course, no one, not even the Federal Chancellor, has been prevented from giving re-help, so to speak, in the context of his personal volunteering, but I do not think that this can be the real focus of the considerations. Ladies and gentlemen! In order to continue to be concrete with the funds: The €400 million for growth and employment will mainly serve research and development in broad areas, whether for the promotion of young scientists, or for increasing the FWF's funding. These are investments in the future of the research location, and investments in the future of the research site are also investments in jobs. Here the circle closes in a wonderful way. In recent years, Austria has not only experienced an internationally respected process of catching up in the field of science and research, but has also developed it. We are among the best countries in Europe today. At present, we are in fifth place with our research rate, and we are working together to further improve this ranking. The stated objective is to increase the research rate from currently 2.43 percent to about 3% by 2010. A key objective or priority of my ministry will be the further internationalisation and support of all related initiatives. In any case, I am looking forward to working with all those involved in science and research today – with the professors at the universities and colleges of applied sciences, the secondary construction, the students and researchers in our country. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I understand my ministry as a dialogue ministry. Together we will shape the future and not just manage the status quo. There are a lot of things to develop that can be evaluated. You should never rest in our area, because whoever's resting here is rusting. In this way, we cannot be afraid of our work. I am looking forward to the discourse – I have already experienced and followed it in part today – on the debate. I can announce to you, in particular to the ladies and gentlemen who are active in my field, that I am open to criticism and suggestions. Science and research should act on ethical standards, but without prejudice. In this sense, I wish you and all of us a good cooperation, joyful work!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e17079	Next, Mr Magistrate. Rossmann speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e17100	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! What has now been presented to us in the last few hours with the most dazzling prospects is also known to be reflected in the budget. And the budget path until 2010, we know it, and it does not promise really good, because it seamlessly continues the saving and stress rate of the black and blue-orange government. The parallels with the 2003 Government and Budget Programme are indeed amazing: At the beginning there is a saving price to achieve a zero deficit, and at the end of the day a tax reform will be envisaged, which no one really knows what it will bring. Vague flakes are indicated: Remission of the labour factor, significant reduction for taxpayers and the economy. – But who knows whether all of them will actually benefit from this tax reform? What if the savings targets are not achieved? How will this tax reduction fit into economic policy? And on the question of wage reduction, well, I seriously ask myself: How long are we going to have to wait for an additional wage reduction? I remember very well: A tax reform committee was set up at the time of Edellinger, where appropriate proposals were made to reduce additional labour costs; by the way, also useful proposals on inheritance tax and its reform – which is now not mentioned in the government programme at all. The Greens, too, have long made proposals on how to reduce additional wage costs. So what are you waiting for? Awesome implementation would be needed, not waiting! – This budgetary savings rate, followed by a reduction in taxes, is primarily based on the electoral cycle, and not on the many failures of recent years – in education policy, in science policy, in environmental and climate policy, in tax policy, employment policy and in women’s policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And at the end of the legislative period will be You leave a heavy legacy for the next government with your government programme, because we expect to: In the budget path on page 167, a budget surplus of 0.38 percent of GDP is raised. Let us assume that the tax reduction represents one percent of the gross domestic product. Then what is the result of purely calculation? – A budget deficit, of course, what else! And the savings mentioned in this budget path – the tax increases do not even take place in this budget path – are higher in all the years up to 2010, much higher than the additional expenditure on education, research and development and social security. Therefore, only €200 million are available for education. And do you think, Mrs. Federal Minister, that you can correct the miscarriage of education and make it a building block to a growth policy of tomorrow? No, on the contrary, the miser will get worse – unless it's the way you've announced it: You are committed to the budget negotiations with your pleasure in fighting. Well, let's take a look at how this will come about. And how will the additional projects of the government programme be implemented if additional expenditure is excluded as a result of a reservation of funding? That means no additional money – from climate protection to cultural policy. And one last word about full employment: Today, and in particular by Mr Vice-Chancellor, we have been assured that this programme, which is presented to us here, will achieve full employment. ................................................................................................................................................. [[Abg. Grandruck: Well, well, well!]] [[Call to the ÖVP: But this is a mistake!]] And I assume that Mr Vice-Chancellor has not read the budget programme, the budget path on page 167, because it is clear that, after all the measures of the government programme have taken, an unemployment rate of 3.9 percent – instead of 5 percent without measures – is reached. – And this is supposed to be full employment? – This is not full employment! In fact, Milton Friedman would turn around in the grave, because not even he, I would say, would have associated with “full employment” such a high natural unemployment rate. Summary: Whoever sows savings policy cannot reap full employment and expect a sufficient fight against poverty.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e17156	The next item is the speech by Mr Broukal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e17179	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! - What do you say? [[Abg. Ollinger: Now we want to hear something!]] [[Abg. Ollinger: Now we want to hear something!]] [[Call the Greens:Study fees!]] Study fees. Yes, I have a quote – 8. January 2007, “Der Standard”, interview with the green Member Karl Ollinger–: Question: At the time of your government negotiations, would you have let the coalition fail to pay the tuition fees? – Answer Oillinger: I don't think so, because there are also many other problems at the universities. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] Dear Karl, just as it is literally! And if you disapprove, make an actual correction, and I'll give you an answer to that! – I have learned this sentence externally because I knew you would make the mistake of getting into this fat nap. Welcome to it! By the way, I sent you a text that I thanked for this open statement. You could have been warned, dear Karl! But you're in good company: Your party observer said a few years ago: Eliminate tuition fees? Now that the universities have become so accustomed to it? You can't do this or that every few years! – [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: That was the university reform!]] I like to be crochet, just: I won't let you work on this question! That's what I'm really telling you. You are too weak for that too. [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of SPÖ.]] Yes, Professor, go inside and ask yourself where you really are in the heart of the study fees question! [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] Where are we on the subject of tuition fees? – The comparison to 2002 makes us pretty sure: Has You achieved that at that time, the significant increase in scholarships, € 25 million more for scholarships? Have you achieved that at the time, that there are meaningless loans for the study contributions that you have to repay only if the income is right? [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Maybe we've been to the government?]] Did you get that back then? Have you had the idea at the time and proposed to the ÖVP in the negotiations that it might also be a possibility that young people could save themselves the tuition fees with a few hours after help? Or, in order to say something more close, that it might be possible at the universities, as it is possible in the USA, to have poorer students find work there – as tutors, in the library or wherever – and in this way and How can they earn tuition fees that they cannot pay or do not want to pay? No, everything is not in the annals of your negotiations with the ÖVP! [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: You were there?]] And that's why I don't let you say anything about this – except that you didn't realize what we did this time: to form a coalition with the ÖVP! [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: That's good!]] – They always proceed according to the motto: Everything or nothing!, and that is why after 20 years you are still in opposition – unlike all the other parties of this House who were at least occasionally here to the government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] Good luck, Professor! In a few years we will also say goodbye to you as the head of the opposition in the pension! But we've achieved a lot, and you're not talking about it. [[Abg. Oils: What?]] For example, if you did not notice, Mr. Oellinger – 1,000 research jobs at universities. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Depending on budgetary possibilities! – You didn’t read the small print!]] Mr Cot – Mr Klubobmann, I am sorry! – then you don’t know the chapter on the FWF and its funding yet! [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Oh yeah! But you didn't read it!]] But you will have the opportunity to read this in the budget law in April. We have reached: The withdrawal of the entire preference of ordinary professors covered by the 2002 UG. – Mr President-in-Office of the Council, there is in the future a single Curia of the well-trained scientists at the universities, so that we can correct the fact that at the 2002 UG, the ÖVP has put a little too much power into the hands of the old, charming heads and has forgotten a little about the young scientists. What else is there about good news for the universities? – We plan to start a part-time study, a study for professionals, so that they can be easier at the universities and better done there. So, and now, because you always have to talk about the tuition fees: Look, I've got something left for a joke. So today you have tabled a request from me – I voted against it, as did all the other Social Democrats. You may now be well aware of this in your green district pages for the Republic. That's what I'm going to live with. But I'm going to the university in Graz the next morning, and I'm going to tell these young people there that it didn't succeed to maintain what the SPÖ wanted to do to 100 percent, but 50 percent are still better than the zero percent you've achieved at the time!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e17392	Mr Brosz is next to speak on an actual correction. - Please. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: (on the way to the speaker's desk) Since when's that? - Minister round! At the end!]] – No, after the end of the television season! Thus, the agreement on actual corrections was. Please, Mr Brosz.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e17432	Mr Broukal claimed that the Government Convention agreed that the credit model should only pay the tuition fees if there is a corresponding income. – This claim is incorrect! [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] Rather, the Government Convention states that the already existing credit model will be expanded and announced in the public with the aim of making it more accessible to a larger group of students. That, if there is no income, does not have to be repaid, is not a word in the Government Convention.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e17465	Next, Mr. Dr. Graf. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e17489	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Dear Minister Bank – no matter how much you call it; there are still many there! Mr Broukal! You will have to go to the universities and explain this because you have negotiated it too! Who else? – Mr Hahn is poor. Mr. Hahn is poor, because he didn't even negotiate what was inside, but now he has to bathe out what you have negotiated! [[Abg. Broukal: He feels like he's in the bathtub!]] And what you've been negotiating is not necessarily the yellow of the egg. I do not want to talk all the time about the study contributions, because the situation is clear anyway. You, Mr Broukal, can now go to André Heller and join 'Africa! Africa!” apply, because as flexibly as you are, hardly anyone in this House – and the whole group is still in favour. You've got to find out. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Hahn, you said: Toss Schrebergarten-Mentality overboard! There are a number of rounds of competence! – Today is not a good day for science and research, I have to say that. The rounding of competence will not really bring about something that is that you, as a minister, still without a portfolio, will be a minister with competences, or perhaps even with money – for that is not all in the government programme at present. They are in danger of ultimately remaining a minister without a wallet, or one with a small neckline, and perhaps even without money. But perhaps this is the small revenge that has ultimately been caused by the SPÖ in which you have the personnel decision in question. The Federal Chancellor is now the head of the opposition because he has said that if he loses 8 percent, he knows how to succeed; and that is why he is now sitting as a clubman in Parliament. – You’ve lost 10 percent and now you’re on the government bank! That's a small, different difference. – I hope for you, you will do something from the poor paper that exists here. I'm just quoting a few scumbags now: “measures to reduce dropouts”, “enlargement of student advice at schools and universities” – well, hopefully this will be useful! – “Coaching and mentoring in the study entry phase” – well, hopefully this will be useful! –, “New offers for working students (e.g. E-Learning, Part-Time Study Models)” – hopefully this will reduce the number of drop-outs and increase the academic rate! I don't think so much. Neither do you, Mr Broukal, because you have then negotiated as the last point: ‘Sustainable survey of the causes of terminations’. That means, so you proceed empirically: They place something, try to implement it – and afterwards raise the causes. That's it! [[Abg. Broukal: Just as one does in the economy, so it... also did!]] What else did you negotiate? – “More improvement of study conditions”. There's inside: ‘Implementation: Significant improvement of care relations’. - How? What numbers? What's that cost? - There's nothing in there! ‘Start of the programme,reference professorships...’. - How many? When? How much money? – Of course not stand in there! “Further expansion of the Bologna process, especially for teaching studies”. – What does that mean? – Please become something concrete! “Smooth implementation of general renovation and university construction planning”. - When? Who? How much? Which buildings? What infrastructure? – Where is anything: some schedule, some bar, some intermediate result? “Increasing the efficiency of the student attorney’s office”. – What does that mean? – I don't know anyone until today! It doesn't really need anyone, because people have to hack, give help so that they can afford what you've been negotiating. They can't even go to the student lawyer – the time for that doesn't stay! “Women in science. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Objective: Further increase in the proportion of women in the scientific field, especially in leading positions. Implementation: Initiative,Women in Science’: Further development of the special funding programmes according to international best practice models’. – What does that mean? Which model? When? How many women do you want to sit where? – Nothing is in the program you have negotiated! – Mrs Gehrer was your counterpart, I can't address it anymore, so I have to address you; that's your lot. “Development of programmes to improve the compatibility of childcare and scientific careers”. – How much money do you want to take in your hands? Where's anything? And when, where's something coming from? - There's nothing here again! ‘Objective promotion of young scientists in science and technology’. – Spokening! Tell me how you want to do this! When? – In reality, you have to start in the lower classes of gymnasia if you want to change something, but not only in the scientific field! You will no longer produce more natural scientists than you have before, if you do not start at some point down below. But that's not there again. They make speech bubbles that organize you! ‘Development of the University Law 2002’. “Strengthening the autonomy and international competitiveness of Austria’s universities” – this is the goal. For the allocation of appropriations: Nothing – except study contributions; there you are good. ‘Implementation: Further development of the University Law 2002 with the focus on coordination of the responsibilities of the institutions, co-determination (e.g. Works councils in the University Council),...” – You have promised that the medium-sized building will again receive voting rights and will be sent there! Now it's just the works councils – they're already sitting there anyway! [[Abg. Broukal: Do you know the meaning of the word “for example ”?]] That's the best at all, that's not even something new! – Let’s see what else you think: [[Abg. Broukal: Do you know the meaning of the word “for example ”?]] Information rights are to be expanded – a “tolle negotiation result” achieved by Mr Broukal! Internal will-building is also to be expanded – not just! This is already in every model of any bad company, whatever it stands here! [[Abg. Broukal: But in Seibersdorf...!]] “Strengthening modern management and decision-making structures to ensure further profile education and international competitiveness of universities”. You don't say what you mean or what you want to do. – We already have ideas: Health University, for example – why only Medical University? –, with the involvement of the nursing sciences. Very urgent need in Austria, as we know! [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] They did not carry it back then, nor did the ÖVP. But you haven't put it through now either. ‘All scientists employed on careers shall form a group (“Kurie”)’. – What does that mean again? Are they supposed to enter the Senate, or is this all still negotiating mass? Are you going to prevail or not? Minister! You will also have to answer these questions, because Mr Broukal cannot answer them, otherwise he would have negotiated it in – I assume. – And that goes on, and so on. The best chapter is extra-university research. In extra-university research, you have of course been the best profiled. There are five slim sentences in it: ‘Objective: Further increase in efficiency and international competitiveness’. - Who wouldn't write that? – ‘Implementation: Development of modern structures at the Academy of Sciences". – D’accord, that’s made! ‘Evaluation of the research institutes of the ÖAW’. – D’accord, that's made. But I don't need a SPÖ in the government so that something like this is going on at all. You just have to do that. Then the sentence in the government programme is: ‘Assessing the exclusion of large research institutions’. What does that mean? Privatisation of the ARC maybe? Or what does disseminating mean? What is not yet allocated to the non-university research institutions? I just want to know about you, you've negotiated! [[Abg. Broukal: That means not to privatize!]] You have made promises, you will be measured! ‘Increasing FWF funds’. - Off. There's nothing else there. There's nothing about out-of-corporative research. There's nothing about the K-programmes. There's nothing about Joanneum Research. There is nothing in it in the case of non-university research – except these four lean sentences. What about private universities? What do you want to do there? – Nothing stands in there! Introduce public funding according to the Swedish model, as the liberals want? Or you don't even know that, because otherwise you would have just negotiated it in. I don't know. What about the FWF? Where's the resort? We still have four Ministries in charge of research. Mr Faymann has lost a single sentence on research by presenting us with who is the State Secretary responsible for research. But he has not said what he wants to do innovatively in the future sector of research and technology in the next few years. What about non-university research? - We don't know. What about the K programs? - Haven't determined. That's a smooth five. There's nothing in there. That's so thin, it's not even thinner. Sometimes one could believe that “thin” one writes with double-m.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e17633	The next item is the speech by Mrs Dr. Brinek. Also 4 minutes of welcome time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e17654	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government! Mr Graf, you are confusing the government programme with the collection of all the proposals for initiative and government proposals for a four-year period of government. I can answer many questions, I have also contributed to the preparation of the programme, but now is not the time. So we can't afford this premise now, otherwise we can all go home tomorrow, and history has gone. But we don't want to. I am in favour of returning to the fundamental questions. The physicist and scientist Hans-Peter Dürr recently – I mean, in our fast-moving information society – pleaded again for the reflection on education, namely on education – I quote – as “the ability to develop a relationship with the whole of natural and mental existence”. Mrs. Federal Minister Schmied! Federal Minister Hahn! Build with your resorts You continue at the base, for this understanding of education articulated by Hans-Peter Dürr. The differentiated school system has more strengths than weaknesses. Even from PISA results, no preference for a system can be derived. I would like to see more rationality and less ideology in this area in the future, especially in the public debate, as we have already practised politically with the 25-year-old decision. The education and education system is intended to develop on the basis of school studies and research results and is what is internationally common. Federal Minister Hahn! In the field of science and research, we build on an exemplary university structure – it has already been quoted today – and continue to develop it. Together, we will work on the increase in research resources announced by you and enshrined in the government programme – and this cannot be done in detail in the government programme, Mr Graf – in order to achieve a 3 percent share of GDP. We will promote the top-level research, especially the researchers, on the one hand at the university, the ÖAW and other institutions, and at the leading research institute ISTA. I am very glad that this course of course has also been incorporated into the government programme. We will do this, Mr Broukal, on the basis of collective treaty results and will not fundamentally change the proportion of institutions at universities. Federal Minister Hahn! I thank you for the initiative and for your drive to increase the scholarships. In fact, this will be an important concern and an important advance. On the subject of education work, after help, whatever its name is, I would like to mention some stimulating thoughts. Two examples of the model imported by the government, especially by the Federal Chancellor from Israel and the USA: Our student Sarah in Jerusalem receives her money for learning help on her account, paying tuition fees. - That's how the model looks there. The student Regina, a student of pedagogy in Vienna, receives her money in the account for her educational assistance at the Lower Austrian Aid Agency, and is paying for her study contributions in Austria. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Government! From this perspective there is actually no need for action – but the need for information, much communication and much effort to convince the representatives of the students of this way. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! I am looking forward to the cooperation and the good products that we will achieve in the interests of researchers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e17724	The next item is Mrs Dr. Moser's speech. Also 4 minutes of welcome time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e17746	Madam President. Mrs. Minister for Education! Mrs Minister for European and International Affairs! Mr State Secretary for Science! Mr State Secretary for Finance! It is really an interesting constellation, which is still wonderfully complemented by the new State Secretary for Infrastructure. And that's what I'm at the headline of the day. Ladies and gentlemen! Most people read a small-format paper in this country, and this today on page 28 has a headline that certainly brings the interesting constellation on the government bank with the debate earlier into an interesting alliance. May I show you this: “They sold us for stupid.” – Original quote from Mrs Barbara Blaha. [[keeping a copy of the “Kronen Zeitung” in height]] Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank, it is about intelligence, it is about stupidity. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank, this is about: What was promised? What was held up? Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank, this is about: What are how many financial resources available for? And with that I am exactly on the core issue of stupidity or intelligence, stupidity or, so to speak, future orientation. Mr Matznetter! Mrs. Schmied! You yourself mentioned the problem, Mrs. Schmied. I have been following your inauguration speech with excitement, because I myself have been in school for years, now in Parliament has the very grateful task of also discussing infrastructure policy. And here is exactly the discrepancy that leads to this headline: “They have sold us for stupid” means that you, Mrs. Schmied, have to look at your €200 million effortlessly, how you can bring about an educational reform, that you, Mr. Colleague, have to work hard with these €600, 700 million in education and research, and that on the other hand, Mrs. State Secretary for Infrastructure, together with your colleague, manage €10 billion, and €10 billion – you can expect – are exactly ten times as much for infrastructure, for concrete, for asphalt, partly thank God also for the rail, as on the other hand, for the software of infrastructure, for the education and research system. [[in the direction of the Abg. Broukal]] This is for me the question of the Cardinal's intelligence and also the stupidity which Mrs Barbara Blaha unfortunately refers to in this headline. The actual discussion that we should have today is really the discussion: Where is investment? And my colleague Bruno Rossmann showed this clearly about the budget path: We are on a par with the question of education. We are in the field of research on savings. And we're in the infrastructure on a sluggish course. That is why I would like to make the following request, which will bring back to your mind the aspect of climate protection, which will bring to your attention the aspect of sustainability: [[Quoted print version removed]] If I had known, ladies and gentlemen, that today I could speak to Mrs Schmied about the field of education, I would have added a fourth point to this proposal. But unfortunately this was not foreseeable, and I am therefore seeking the support of our request and an improved investment in education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e17822	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e17889	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Worm. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e17911	Madam President. Mrs Moser, you already know that non-university research is located at Minister Faymann and that, of course, money for research will be spent here in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: She doesn't know!]] I would like to welcome you now from the new Federal Government, and I am really happy to be able to implement a very ambitious government programme with you here in Parliament over the next four years. With the result of this National Council election, we have received a clear mandate from the people, from the electorate, namely the task of taking responsibility, bearing and shaping responsibility. The coalition with the ÖVP, which we have now received, is also in line with the wishes of President Heinz Fischer, because it is a wish for a stable government for our country. We from the SPÖ remain, of course, one of our main concerns, including the fight against poverty, including real educational opportunities for children and young people in our country, including the strengthening of women's rights, including full employment, and many other important concerns. But what makes me particularly happy, ladies and gentlemen, is that there is again a true women's ministry in our government, a women's ministry that deserves this name too! Ms. Doris Bures – and I am convinced of this – will continue the heritage of Johanna Dohnal, Helga Konrad and Barbara Prammer with Bravour – and this is what the women in our country need! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Women's policies will be re-established, ensuring fair opportunities for women and for distribution justice, and there is enough to do so. We know that there has been a massive increase in women's poverty in recent years, and the programme that the new Social Minister, who has a heart for social concerns, has already presented to us, includes basic security and the increase in minimum pensions. This affects those women who, as you have mentioned today, Mr. Klubobmann Strache, have previously received 400 € of pension, and they are now getting a lot more. And it is worth fighting for, and it is worth implementing this government programme. These are two thirds of women, who then receive more that benefits from them, and I am happy about that and this makes me proud. It was also here that a general collective agreement was mentioned. Mr Mitterlehner has also expressed his support for this. There will again be a lot of women among them who benefit from it. Another important concern in this programme – also mentioned by the Minister for Women – is the protection against violence committed against women. There, the intervention agencies are being expanded and more financially equipped. This is necessary and important. We know that on this issue, namely the violence exerted on women – every fifth woman suffers violence in her life – something is happening now that it is detabulated. This is important, that is necessary and is a very important signal for our society. There's more done! Let me say one more thing – the time is already short, unfortunately, but we will have many more opportunities to discuss this government programme here –: What makes me very happy and proud is that Alfred Gusenbauer has kept his promise to us, the women in the Group and in the SPÖ, that he will occupy half of his government team with women. That's half the power in the state, that's more than one symbol, and I'm glad. I hope – and I am convinced – that our women will comply with what they promise. I have not been able to address many of the positive points due to the short speaking time, but I would like to make one more motion for a resolution tabled by Dr Cap and Dr Schüssel: [[Quoted print version removed]] It is important to me that the proposals are here in the house in good time, that they receive all Members, whether from the opposition groups or from the government groups. This is very important, and also in the sense of what we have set ourselves as a task: that democratisation in this Parliament should be more effective in ensuring that more living parliamentaryism is possible. – I ask for the distribution of this request. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e17974	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is properly tabled and signed. On the basis of its scope, the Parliamentary Directorate is already working intensively on the reproduction, and once it is completed, the whole is also distributed. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Government programme for XXIII. The legislative period Table of contents 0. Preamble Page 3 1. Europe, foreign policy, external security and security National Defense Page 16 2. State and administrative reform page 23 3rd. Economy and work Page 37 4. Research, technology, infrastructure Page 56 5. Rural, Energy, Environment Page 69 6. Education, Science Page 85 7. Social challenges, health, page 103 8. Family, Women, Youth Page 126 9. Internal security, integration, page 134 10. Justice page 144 11th@item: inlistbox Media, Art, Culture, Sports Page 153 12. Financial page 163 Preamble The S & D Party of Austria and the Austrian People's Party conclude this Convention with the aim of establishing a joint federal government on the basis of the content of this Convention for the XXIII. This is the first time we have been able to find a solution to this problem. The aim is to build up and further improve citizens on the basis of what has been achieved so far. Further offensives for the growth of the economy with the aim of full employment by 2010 require additional measures to combat unemployment and the competitiveness of the economic location in international comparison and the continuation of a solid budgetary policy with a view to achieving a balanced budget over the economic cycle. Another focus will be the further development of the Austrian social and health system, which will be complemented by a poverty reduction strategy. An offensive education and research policy is a prerequisite for addressing international competition challenges. The promotion of an open and living art and cultural life will be particularly important for the Federal Government. The high quality of life and the environment in Austria is to be maintained. The focus of government work is on the highest possible level of internal and external security to protect citizens. By means of a state and administrative reform, the internal structure of the Republic in the Federal Republic of Germany, countries and municipalities is also intended to meet the new requirements of the 21st century. ==References====External links== The continued fidelity of the Republic of Austria ("PACTa sunt servanda") is beyond dispute. Therefore, international agreements, European commitments, applications and contracts – whether they be state-of-the-art or private administration – are not disputed. The participation of Austria in the European Union is intended to serve the interests of our country, its citizens, and to contribute to the success of the European integration process. Austria will actively participate in the further development of the Union, through full participation in the integration in political, economic, social and foreign policy and security matters. In relations with other States and through cooperation in international organisations, such as the United Nations, the Austrian Government aims to achieve the highest level of international cooperation and to maintain peace as a top priority. Parliamentary procedure In principle, on the basis of the government programme, the two government parties will jointly represent their concerns in government and Parliament. Government documents are dealt with and decided quickly in Parliament; when drawing up the timetable, a sufficient period of time should be provided for the assessment and coordination with the countries and for thorough parliamentary consultation with the opposition parties. In addition to joint parliamentary initiatives, each government party can set up its own legislative legislative initiatives. Prior to this, they must be communicated to the other government partner as far as possible a week before and to negotiate with him with a view to a joint contribution. Each Government Party shall approve applications for parliamentary surveys and inquiry committees proposed by the Government Party, after previous negotiations, at the latest in the second Committee meeting following the submission. The two government parties are seeking dialogue with all parties represented in Parliament on the basis of the government programme. This also includes discussing their proposals in a factual and constructive manner and, if agreed, taking a decision. Reports of the Federal Government shall be discussed in plenary in accordance with a key to be agreed with the opposition parties. All parliamentary decisions, including those on Rules of Procedure, must be taken in a timely manner by the two club members in order to achieve a joint decision-making process. Examining committees are obliged to do their job. Austria – Partners in Europe and the world 1. For a strong, social and modern Europe Europe must benefit and protect citizens. The Federal Government is therefore committed to a strong, united Europe. These include: deepening the community of values and strengthening the European model of life with its distinct social dimension: preserving and respecting European diversity, balancing social security, economic dynamics and sustainability; the extension of the common market Europe's foreign and security policy and solidarity contributions to common EU missions; more Europe in the field of security, justice and home affairs. More European cooperation in the field of migration (recovery agreements, data exchange) and a fair distribution of responsibility in the reception and care of asylum seekers; improved cross-border police cooperation; in the field of energy, enhanced coordination among European partners. Europe needs more security of supply through diversification of energy resources, the development of renewable energy sources and the strictest safety standards in nuclear energy. The Federal Government will work towards new initiatives in the field of sustainable energy policy, in particular with a view to substantially reducing Europe's dependence on nuclear energy; the closure of remaining gaps in the European internal market. Strengthening the confidence of Austrians in the European project is a particular concern of the Federal Government. To this end, it will be increasingly seeking new ways of mediation. The aim is to revitalise citizens' awareness of Europe, thus greatly strengthening the acceptance of the European integration work in Austria. Foreign and European policies are inseparably interwoven, so the distribution of competences between the Federal Chancellery and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will not be altered. The aim is to guarantee the optimum enforcement of Austrian interests through the greatest possible coherence and efficiency. 2. Reunification of Europe The Federal Government is committed to the peace project Europe. Relations with all neighbouring countries are as close and close as ever before. The Federal Government is committed to strengthening targeted cooperation with neighbouring countries. We will have an active neighbourhood policy both bilaterally and within the EU in the format of the “Regional Partnership” (in addition to Austria, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Slovakia and Slovenia) as well as in the context of the issues of the Western Balkans. The Federal Government will ensure that the enlargement process takes full account of the EU's capacity to accept it carefully and prudently. European integration is incomplete without the countries of the Western Balkans. They all have an accession perspective: In line with the needs of the domestic labour market, the accession agreements with the States acceding in May 2004 and the conditions and protective measures provided for in Bulgaria and Romania; With the accession of Bulgaria and Romania, the Danube will essentially become an inflow of the European Union. The potential of this river, not only as a transport arteries, but also in the areas of culture, the environment and tourism, is to be revived in a comprehensive way; The EU accession negotiations with Croatia will be continued with determination and concluded as early as possible; A targeted and careful approach to European values and standards for Turkey and its people is in the interests of all Member States of the European Union. Austria has insisted that negotiations with Turkey have an open outcome. We are committed to a step-by-step approach with the aim of a tailor-made Turkish-European Community. In any case, the Austrian citizens will have the last word in a referendum with a goal of accession in a referendum. With the help of the EU's European Neighbourhood Policy, the neighbouring countries of the Union, Ukraine and Moldova should be brought to the fullest possible conclusions on European values and standards. Particular attention should be paid to the special importance of relations between the European Union and Russia. An active and open policy must be pursued towards those countries on our continent which are in a specific close relationship with the European Union, such as Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Iceland. 3rd. Reform of EU institutions We will continue to play an active and equal role in the future of the European peace project in all policy areas. The Federal Government considers the Constitutional Treaty approved by the National Council in 2005 to be a balanced and further basis in order to ensure Europe's ability to act in the future. We will play an active part in this constructive discussion. In any case, the Federal Government is committed to a “Europe of concrete projects” as well as to a more efficient and Make more transparent use of the existing Treaties in order to bring EU policies closer to citizens. The EU should only carry out those tasks which can really be done better in Brussels in the Community, as well as more involve national representatives (subsidiarity). 4. Economic and monetary union The creation of a suitable framework for more jobs, growth and social security is the central concern of the Federal Government. It will therefore firmly implement the newly-oriented Lisbon Strategy for growth and employment. This applies in particular to the concrete targets agreed under the Austrian Presidency on youth employment, business start-ups and the promotion of SMEs. (e.g. by 2010 annual creation of at least 2 million additional jobs; by the end of 2007, each unemployed school leaver is expected to work within 6 months. a job, apprenticeship, further training or any other job-preparing measure is offered; by 2010 achieving 3% research rate; by 2007 ‘one-stop-shops’ for business start-ups.) The Federal Government will work to create common EU minimum standards in the fields of employment and social affairs. The Federal Government will take action to strengthen coordination between the EU, the EU Member States and the social partners at European level in the interests of reducing high levels of unemployment. Innovation and research are important factors for EU competitiveness. The Federal Government therefore supports the creation of a European Institute of Technology (EIT) as a network for the promotion of excellence in research, education and innovation. It offers Austria as the seat of the EIT Secretariat and is willing to make an appropriate contribution to financing and infrastructure. A wide-ranging review of the EU financial system is planned for the coming years: The Federal Government is committed to responsible handling of European taxpayers and therefore to a economical EU budget, to optimising the return to Austria and a long-term solution to the EU's own resources issue. In this context, the Federal Government will focus on particular areas of rural development and development. Promoting sustainable projects (research and development). No ‘funding euro’ may be left to lie in Brussels. Austria will continue to take a leading position in rural development. The Federal Government will continue its consolidation policy in full compliance with the EU reformed Stability and Growth Pact. It will pay particular attention to the reduction of the general government deficit and a sustainable reduction in the debt ratio under the Maastricht criteria. The Federal Government will continue its previous initiatives within the framework of the European institutions to ensure the feasibility of this on a minimum basis. an EU-wide tax such as: Review a foreign exchange transaction tax and work towards uniform implementation steps, without endangering the Lisbon objectives. Liquefied financial resources will be allocated to an EU fund that balances the allocation of supranational tasks such as EU own funding and development cooperation. 5. External security The Federal Government is committed to a comprehensive peace policy. On the basis of its constitutionally defined ever-increasing neutrality, Austria will continue to be a reliable and solid partner in the world and actively participate in the further development of European security and defence policy. This includes the achievement of the existing EU planning target (headline goal 2010), with particular reference to ensuring the rapid response capacity of the EU. At the same time, EU civil crisis management instruments should be expanded, taking into account the EU 2008 planning targets. A focus of the Austrian foreign and security policy commitment will continue to remain the West Balkan. Stability in this region means security for Europe and Austria. Austria's foreign policy, particularly within the framework of the EU, will continue to work hard for a peace solution in the Middle East on the basis of Road Map. It will actively use its good relations with all the countries of the region, including Israel. A priority will be the continuation and expansion of aid to Palestinians and dialogue with Arab civil society. In general, our relationship with the Islamic world requires special attention. Building on the many positive impulses in international relations for Austria during its EU Presidency, relations with Latin America, Asia and Africa should be strengthened. The Federal Government will work towards a deeper transatlantic partnership in the bilateral relations of Austria with the USA and Canada and within the framework of the EU, based on the common values of democracy and the rule of law. 6. United Nations and multilateral questions The United Nations is the core competence centre for the international promotion of peace, security and justice. Austria is committed to the principle of effective multilateralism and will continue to contribute actively to the work of the United Nations, in particular in the areas of peacekeeping, protection of human rights, disarmament, protection of the environment, equality of women and the fight against terrorism, organised crime and drug trafficking. The focus of our initiatives is on: Austria's candidate for a non-resident seat in the UN Security Council in the years 2009-2010; increased financial support, in particular through a sustainable increase in voluntary contributions, by 2008 at the latest; strengthening Austria as the headquarters of international organisations and conferences. Vienna is a global centre of competence for international security and energy of the UN and OSCE; the traditional good dialogue within Austria of groups of different religious beliefs. It will host Austria as a host of conferences on the dialogue of cultures and To strengthen religions and to be a model for European dialogue to improve peaceful co-existence. The inclusion of European Islam in this dialogue takes a special position; Women's policy in development cooperation and peace work. In the case of international efforts to rebuild societies in post-conflict situations, the position of women is to be strengthened – as vulnerable people in the countries as well as as as decision-makers in the missions. Additional appropriations are the subject of the budget negotiations. The Federal Government will continue its active efforts for disarmament and arms control, as well as for the spread of nuclear weapons and for the further development of international humanitarian law. The Federal Government is actively committed to respect for human rights at European level and worldwide. It promotes the transformation of the EU Racism Observatory in Vienna into an EU Human Rights Agency with the broadest possible mandate. The Federal Government will be committed to further strengthening the OSCE, taking particular account of the areas of democracy development, human rights protection and election observation. 7. Development cooperation and foreign culture policy Development cooperation (ECA) and foreign culture are integral elements of foreign policy. The Federal Government acknowledges the decisions of the EU Council, according to which a share of 0.51% of the gross national income is to be used for EZA services by 2010. It will also focus on cluster education in the fields of medicine, technology for small and medium-sized enterprises, education and energy. In the context of the international disaster aid, the people concerned continue to provide rapid and efficient solidarity aid. The main concern of development cooperation is to win women as partners and to promote them. Each specific project of development cooperation will be examined to see whether it takes account of women’s concerns and particular interests. The Federal Government will work to strengthen coherence in development policy in all its areas of activity and to further evaluate the activities of the Austrian Development Agency (ADA) and the coordination mechanism. A positive economic upturn can lead the poorest countries in the world out of poverty. It is therefore necessary to broaden the efforts undertaken in the framework of "Economic Development". In addition to the United Nations, the World Bank, the OECD Development Assistance Committee, the EU and most donor countries, the Austrian EZA is also committed to winning Austrian companies to participate in the achievement of the UN Millennium Goals. The Austrian Federal Government is committed to strengthening the placement of a comprehensive Austrian image abroad to support Austrian interests. The network of cultural forums and Austrian libraries can be used as a successful platform and engine for the authentic, target group-oriented presentation of modern Austria. The Federal Government supports Linz as the European Capital of Culture 2009 (together with Vilnius). This nomination gives the state capital and the whole Region new impetus and the opportunity to present itself as a creative and forward-looking cultural region with a sustainable impact. 8. Offensive “citizen service” The Ministry of Foreign Affairs should be further expanded as a service: Adjusting the foreign network to meet foreign policy, economic and consular requirements in order to best represent the interests of Austrians abroad. The Federal Government will work to ensure that, in addition to fulfilling its obligations in the design of Austrian foreign policy, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can also fulfil its role as a modern service company for citizens, business and politics, and will take the necessary human resources to do so. Austrian foreign policy will continue to support Austrian companies, in close cooperation with the Economic Chamber, in their efforts to successfully anchor themselves in the domestic and international markets. A particular focus will be placed on the perception of Austrian interests within the framework of international trade policy. Improved crisis and disaster management: The aim is to ensure local consular care for the emergency where thousands of Austrian tourists live each year. Human reinforcements in the consular and civil service sectors in Germany and abroad, as well as improved networking at bi-multi-teral level, should therefore be ensured. Additional appropriations are the subject of the budget negotiations. Information campaigns on foreign and EU policy issues (e.g. also on the homepage of the BMAA, target group-oriented). The Federal Government is committed to a secure and non-useful visa system: In order to ensure a safe, thorough and efficient processing and control of constantly increasing numbers of visa applications, sufficient specialist personnel and modern devices to detect fake documents must be ensured. In order to optimise the use of resources, together with EU partners, the establishment of joint visa offices will also be carried out. Biometry Center Tested. External security and defence We live in a stabilised Europe that is not exposed to a conventional threat. This is a solid foundation for the peaceful development of our continent. The Federal Government is committed to a comprehensive peace policy. On the basis of its constitutionally defined ever-increasing neutrality, Austria will continue to be a reliable and solid partner in the world and actively participate in the further development of European security and defence policy. Austria has been valued internationally as a place of meeting and dialogue and has proven this during the EU Presidency 2006. Many international organisations such as the UN, the OSCE and the Organization of Earth Exporting Countries (OPEC) are based in Austria. The Federal Government wants to strengthen Austria and, in particular, Vienna as the seat of important organisations. The achievement of solidarity within the EU is part of the Austrian peace policy. Austria will therefore actively participate in the further development of European Security and Defence Policy (ESDP). One priority is the achievement of the existing EU planning target (headline goal 2010), taking into account in particular the security of the EU's rapid response capacity. At the same time, EU civil crisis management instruments should be expanded, taking into account the EU 2008 planning targets. In this context, the Federal Government will ensure that the necessary organisational, legal and budgetary arrangements are made to ensure the rapid deployment of Austrian experts from the police and judicial sectors, civil administration and relevant non-governmental organisations for civilian crisis management. Missions should be optimised in accordance with the Court of Auditors’ proposals (BUND series, 2006/11), regardless of whether they concern military or civil forces. The EU can contribute very significantly to stability and security in crisis regions through its common foreign and security policy. Wars or conflicts rob people of their future prospects, increased immigration pressure trigger refugee flows and strengthen the activities of criminal organizations. It is therefore important that the EU – and in its context also Austria – actively contribute to ensuring peace and international stability, as is already done in different forms and with different instruments, especially in the Balkans, but also in the Middle East and Africa. In order to stabilise international crises, military presence will continue to be necessary in the future. With its peace efforts, but also in dealing with natural disasters in Germany and abroad, the Austrian Federal Army is doing particularly valuable work. Austria has so far participated above average in unled peace missions in international comparison and will continue this tradition. Moreover, Austria will continue to participate actively in PfP activities in close cooperation with the other non-neutral and alliance-free participating countries of the Partnership for Peace (PfP). The Federal Government guarantees the ability of the Austrian Federal Government to act. A federal army is necessary to carry out its tasks in the field of military defence and to protect sovereignty and neutrality. The German army must effectively assist the population in the event of disaster and enable the best possible protection of the population from nuclear, biological or chemical threats. The German army must continue to be able to provide its internationally respected services abroad for the security of peace and stability. The Federal Army needs sufficient human resources, but also that organization, equipment, equipment and training for modern armies to meet the requirements of the 21st century. ==References====External links==* Official website The militia will continue to be an integral part of the Federal Army's operational organisation. I. Security policy 1. The sub-strategies of the Federal Ministries on Security Policy must be finalized and a state-wide strategy should be drawn up. 2. Further development of the ESDP through support for efforts to achieve the in nature. 17 of the EU Treaty identified the possibility of a common European defence which does not affect the particular nature of the security and defence policy of certain Member States. 3rd. Continue and intensify public security information. 4. Further development of skills and capacity to create the strategic situation picture. 5. Participation in national and international security research programmes. 6. improving and adapting crisis and disaster support capacities in general terms. ................................................................................................... Reform BH 2010 The Federal Government is committed to the recommendations of the Federal Government Reform Commission, which, with broad political consensus, are the basis for the adaptation of the Austrian army to the threats and challenges of the 21st century. ==References====External links==* Official website 7. The Federal Ministry of Defence (BMLV) will be provided with the necessary resources to carry out the tasks. The reform should be supported by a gradual adjustment of the budget volume in such a way that the shares for investment reach a third of the total expenditure on military defence. In this context, the principle applies that all possibilities of internal retransmission and savings are taken into account for each individual area. Unforeseen operations exceeding the level of planned provisions shall be financed separately. The proceeds obtained from the sale of properties remain 100% in the BMLV. 8. The central office of the BMLV must be adapted to the new federal army. Continue the redimensionalisation of administrative and administrative structures according to the principles of modern management management and streamlining of the basic organisation by internal optimisation and implementation of innovative solutions. 9. The new tasks are only to be handled by highly trained soldiers and highly qualified specialists. For this purpose, provision should be made for ensuring the necessary staffing strengths in qualitative and quantitative terms. In this context, all possibilities for cooperation with public administration and the economy to attract the military profession should be used, with particular attention being paid to temporary service conditions. The measures to halt social hardships in the course of human shifts and increase mobility should continue. 10. Modernising and professionalising the militia as part of the implementation of the German army reform. The involvement of the militia, in particular through the creation of experts for military consulting, participation in demobilizations, etc., will enable the German army to participate in a wide range of international operations. III. Internationality of the Austrian Federal Government 11th@item: inlistbox Modification of voluntary use for foreign use. Gem. the recommendations of the Federal Government Reform Commission are to be provided in the Federal Constitution that future temporary and unlimited professional soldiers are obliged to work abroad. Temporary exemptions should be possible for social reasons. For staff already in service, the voluntary transfer to the professional model should be made possible in the further development of the incentive system for international operations (KIOP)/framework units (KPE) with obligation to use abroad. All professional soldiers who do not use the option right should continue to be able to engage abroad on a voluntary basis. The Constitutional principle that soldiers in the basic military service and soldiers in the training service can only participate on the basis of voluntary participation in foreign operations should be maintained. 12. Review of the framework conditions for Austria's participation in the EU's military forces. 13. Increase the capacity for rapid, structured use of forces for the international crisis response by cadres (framework brigade) throughout the spectrum of Petersberg tasks, in particular the exercise of the obligation within the framework of the Battle Group concept. IV. Airspace monitoring 14. As in the past, Austria will ensure the commitment of neutrality and international sovereignty to safeguard air sovereignty in the form of active and passive airspace surveillance, as defined by the German Federal Republic's Reform Commission as the task of the Austrian Federal Army. V. Military service 15. The Federal Government is committed to maintaining the general military obligation and will submit the legal reduction of military service to six months in the National Council as soon as possible. 16. Continue the modernisation of training procedures for officers and sub-officials as well as the federal education institutions according to European standards, including necessary legal adjustments (e.g. In the case of a person who is a resident of a Member State or a Member State of the European Union, the competent authority of the Member State of the Member State of the place of residence of the competent authority of the Member State of the Member State of the Member State of the place of residence of the place of residence of the competent authority of the Member State of residence of the Member State of the place of residence of the place of residence of the Member State of residence of the place of residence of the place of residence of 17. In the context of the management innovation of the federal government, the initiatives to evaluate the positioning and complementing system must continue. The whole complement must be adapted in a timely manner in a procedural, structural and equipment manner. VI. Women in the Federal Government 18. Evaluation of the service of women in the Federal Army, including the attraction measures taken so far. VII. Civil protection 19. Increase the ability to assist domestically through increased cadre presence and provision for appropriate modern disaster protection equipment. VIII. Competencies 20. Transfer of competence with regard to the European Defence Agency (EDA) to the competence of the Federal Ministry of State Defense. IX. Procurement 21. Continue and intensify the modernisation of equipment (transport, information etc.) with a view to ensuring maximum protection for the population and soldiers. Among other things, it is necessary to implement innovative financing solutions and to make full use of the optimization potential in the field of administrative development. In this context, the entire procurement sector must be reorganised. X. Promotion of the top sport in the army 22. The promotion of top-level sports in the existing army sports centres will continue to be an important contribution to the successful appearance of Austrian athletes at international major sporting events. State and administrative reform On the basis of the work of the Austrian Convention and the Special Committee on this matter, a Constitutional Reform will be prepared, in particular, a modern fundamental rights reform, in particular fundamental social rights, a reorganisation of competences, the strengthening of legal protection and democratic controls, improvements in electoral law, strengthening the country autonomy and the legal status of the municipalities, including constitutional bases for administrative reform and, last but not least, a constitutional adjustment. In order to formulate the necessary legal texts, an expert group is set up at the Federal Chancellor's Office, which is owned by the SPÖ Dr. Kostelka and Dr. Öhlinger, by the ÖVP Dr. Fierce and Dr. Khol as well as two representatives of the national conference. It has its proposals until 30. Reimbursement of June 2007 on the basis of which Parliament's deliberations are to be held with a view to adopting the Constitutional Reform by the end of 2007. 1. Fundamental rights reform The aim is to create a uniform, clear catalogue of fundamental rights in which the currently fragmented fundamental rights guarantees are merged and developed in accordance with the fundamental law catalogue of the Europe Treaty. Fundamental rights should be defined as real guarantees, not as mere declarations. The aim of fundamental rights is to safeguard the freedom of individuals and human dignity. The guarantee of human dignity should therefore be expressly included in the catalogue of fundamental rights. In particular, guarantees against discrimination on grounds of sex, race, social or ethnic origin, disability or other grounds (e.g. Age, sexual orientation) and children's rights to implement the Child Law Convention. In the fundamental rights catalogue, social fundamental rights must be anchored in accordance with the consultations in the Convention. Social policy must in principle be made by means of legislation. Social fundamental rights require a special legal protection system adapted to their nature. At the same time, it should be pointed out that social fundamental rights do not dissuade individuals from their fundamental responsibility for the design of their lives and that the granting of state benefits depends on the economic performance of the community. The establishment of legal professional representations with self-government should be provided for in the Constitution. An appropriate legal protection mechanism is to be provided for enforcement of social fundamental rights as well, based on the proposals in the Austrian Convention, which also provides for the complete absence of a legal regime in the event of a constitutional illegality. 2. New division of tasks between the Federal Government and the Länder The competences of the federal and state states must be re-designed according to a three-pillar model, divided in the sense of two separate areas of competence of the federal and state (first and second pillars) and an area of “common legislation” (third pillar). Further formulations will be made on the basis of the proposals in the Austrian Convention by 30. ==References====External links==* Official website On this basis, negotiations between the Federal Government and countries should be conducted with a view to adopting the constitutional changes by the end of 2007 so that they can find their way into the deliberations of the next financial compensation. Unchanged retention of the contents of the species. 17 B-VG (private management), the implementation of EU law by countries as far as their tasks are concerned, Expanding the regulatory competence of the countries and/or Equality with the federal government in company law for distributed institutions. Maintain the admissibility of different rules in the administrative procedure, in (country) administrative proceedings and in civil and criminal law (Article 15(9)). With regard to the law on hospitals (with the exception of financing issues), the expert group referred to at the outset examines a distribution of responsibilities within the meaning of the nature. 11 B-VG. 3rd. Democratic control, People's Procuratorate and Court of Auditors With all the parties represented in Parliament, the results will be open and the following points will be discussed with the aim of reaching a broad consensus: Development of minority and control rights Fairness rules for the election campaign The tasks of the Human Rights Advisory Council (which remains in its collegial structure and independent functioning) and the new preventive body to be set up under the Optional Protocol to the Anti-Falfilment Convention/NPM will be established in the field of public prosecutors. Where there are national prosecutors, they receive the same rights for the country. To create a constitutional possibility for the management of lawyers of public law (e.g.(i) to establish equal treatment officers at the public prosecutor's office. The lawyers will be able to be called up by 2/3-personity; clarification of the re-vocation of lawyers; Inconsistency of the Office with the candidate in the elections for Volksanwälte and President of the Court of Auditors. The Federal Constitution lays down principles for the national accounting courts set up by the Constitutional Law in all cases similar to the Court of Auditors of the Federal Republic of Germany. In principle, the audit plans of the Court of Auditors and such national accounting authorities should be coordinated with the aim of avoiding double audits. In principle, apart from the special parliamentary audits, no second audit should be carried out within three years by the other Court of Auditors. The expert group referred to at the outset is concerned with the question of the quota for the appointment of the President of the Court of Auditors and an extension of the audit competence of the Court of Auditors and the public prosecutors with regard to distributed legal entities which fulfil public tasks. In any event, the Public Prosecutor's Office should also be able to examine companies and distributed legal entities in which the Court of Auditors is currently entitled to audit. 4. Establishment of national administrative courts In particular, the well-developed Austrian legal protection system will be improved significantly by introducing a multi-stage administrative jurisdiction in the sense of a procedural acceleration, an enhanced civil service and the discharge of the administrative court. To this end, administrative courts are set up which are to be composed of a national administrative court per country and an administrative court of the first instance at the federal level for the direct federal administration (the indirect federal administration control the national administration courts). In addition to the “general” national or federal administration court, the creation of further special courts should be permitted. In particular, a special court is to be set up to set up its own federal court, which decides at the last instance. The numerous judicial-like special authorities (e.g. the independent management Senate and the independent financial Senate or the various collegial authorities with judicial intervention) should be transferred as far as possible to the newly created administrative court of first instance; Establishment of own Senates with lay members in the administrative courts for certain areas (at least construction, procurement and service law). In principle, the administrative first instance is to have a reformatory decision-making power, but according to the example of § 66(2) of the AVG, it is also intended to have the possibility of cassatory decision-making. The administrative courts' decisions are to be appealed first to the Administrative Court; the admissibility of the appeal must be determined by the revision model by the administrative court of first instance, with the admissibility decision being the subject of a appeal. According to the Administrative Court, due to the alleged infringement of constitutionally guaranteed rights or the application of an unlawful general standard of the Constitutional Court, which receives a general right of refusal. The members of the currently existing judicial-like special authorities, which are transferred to the new administrative courts, should not automatically become members of the new administrative courts; the acquisition should take place in individual cases in accordance with a rule of law. As this construction gives discharge to the Federal Administrative Court, it is necessary to clarify the financing with the countries. 5. Right to vote During the next legislative period, the active electoral age will be reduced to 16 years. The letter of vote currently only intended for voting abroad is also intended for voting domestically. Special attention should also be paid to safeguarding the secret of elections. The selection of letters will apply to the following elections: Federal President, National Council, Land Days, Municipal Councils, Mayor's direct elections in those countries where this is planned. The electoral process abroad is simplified: The absence of the need for the signature of a witness (instead of the voter’s ‘own declaration’), the establishment of foreign-Austrian electoral evidence to the representative authorities, the removal from the local electorate evidence only with the consent of the person concerned. The legislative period will be extended to five years from the next legislative period. Examination of the possibility of a preliminary ruling by the VfGH during the electoral procedure, e.g. at the request of the Federal/Land electoral authorities. Research into the laws relating to the political parties on the congruence of the terms used. Clear determination when political party, when electoral party, when the party represented in the National Council is meant and relationship to the clubs formed by the political parties and/or electoral parties. Cleaning of electoral legislation within the meaning of current legislative requirements. Review of electronic voting (e-voting). 6. Volksgrupperecht The growing linguistic and cultural diversity is expressed in the indigenous groups. People's rights should therefore be an essential part of the Constitution, while at the same time extending them towards intercultural dialogue in accordance with the Council of Europe Convention. The regulation to implement the local knowledge of the VfGH is intended to be constitutionally secured in as broad a consensus as possible with the ethnic groups on the basis of the previous proposals. In this context, an opening clause is to be provided for localities in the traditional settlement area of the ethnic groups, according to which additional bilingual town boards can be set up on the basis of a petition of a certain percentage of the population. This scheme will be implemented by summer 2007. 7. Strengthening country autonomy The country's constitutional autonomy is to be strengthened. The uniformity of the offices of the national governments must be safeguarded. The other constitutional requirements for the organisation of the administration in the countries are to be reduced (rejection of the consent of the Federal Government to the organisation of the Office of the State Government and the business division of the State Government) The right of opposition of the Federal Government against the laws of the countries (Art. 98) and the Federal Government's right to vote on certain laws. 6 Decisions of the countries (Art. 97) should be abolished, provided that no federal affairs [in particular] are to be abolished. Financial interest (Art. In paragraph 98, point (b) is replaced by the following: 2), participation in enforcement (Art. 97 para.2).............................................................................................................................................................. All local authorities will be given the opportunity to take over agreements on the exercise of their duties, including the exercise of tasks of another local authority. Such agreements shall be made known in accordance with their content. In the event of disaster, a uniform leadership by the head of state must be ensured. The head of state or state should be the central decision-maker in the event of crises and in the event of disasters, regardless of the competence (possibly several different) of other authorities and bodies. The special provisions relating to Vienna are to remain. 8. Strengthening the communities Recast and clearer regulation of the section on municipalities in the BVG according to the following principles: Community guarantee for stocks: Changes in the local structure should only be possible if the population is agreed in the municipalities concerned. Unit communities: All municipalities should continue to have the same rights and obligations (competences) regardless of their size. Statutory cities: Only municipalities over 20,000 EW if, according to the Landtag Decision, national interests are not violated and if the affected population is in favour. Municipalities: Repeal of Constitutional Provisions Custom scope of action: Recast of part. obsolete provisions; Inclusion of general care Supervision law: Restriction of supervisory law, in particular no resolution directly by the people of elected municipal bodies by supervisory authorities. Financial constitution: Sufficient formal right of hearing and negotiation (not co-decision!) of the municipal and urban authorities in the financial balance. 9. Intercommunal cooperation Countries as well as cities and municipalities should be able to create common institutions in both the private administration and the public performance, in order to accelerate processes and pool expertise in the sense of customer orientation. Both in the field of private administration and in the public sector, the creation of common institutions and authorities should therefore be legally possible. This requires the admissibility of public contracts which allow a common authority to be established beyond the limits of local responsibilities. Appropriate legal protection for any disputes arising out of such public contracts would be imperative. 10. Elimination of dual track in the school administration The aim is to create a single unit of organisation for the affairs of the federal and state school administration under the leadership of the head of state. This is possible through the establishment of a national education management, where the federal state can also lead it as part of the office of the state government. The organizational decision is open to the federal states. On the question of the transfer of competences in the field of school administration and the replacement of the collegiate bodies, the group of experts mentioned above advises. 11th@item: inlistbox Public service A uniform legal form is being established for the Federal Public Service, with the aim of redistributing the sum of life. Hours of service for EU institutions and other international organisations shall be fully charged. On the question of uniform remuneration principles for the federal, state and local authorities, the expert group mentioned at the outset advises. The state of employment of the federal government is further consolidated, taking into account expenditure responsibility and job reform. Staff questions related to reform projects of the Federal Government are discussed in the respective context. A supplementary fee reform will be implemented. 12. Strengthening citizens' orientation Efficiency, customer orientation and high speed in ensuring legal certainty are the most important criteria of modern administration. Each authority shall lay down standards of performance, with the insidiousness and reduction of the duration of the procedure and the quality of performance by applying quality standards. Furthermore, an expansion of the one-stop-shop principle is expected. The municipalities are a particularly important partner in the implementation of the eGovernment initiative, as they are closest to the "customers" of the administration and are therefore the most important level of contacts. In principle, every citizen in each municipality should have access to any form of e-government at federal, national and municipal level. Therefore, in order to ensure the efficient implementation of e-government strategies, progress and results in monitoring should be made in this context, together with the countries on the Digital Austria Platform, in order to have safe electronic contact points, in particular in the communities, and to be able to handle procedures electronically throughout the community. The new Austrian Federal Government intends to take measures in the course of its efforts to reform the government's administration, which are countering the emergence of corruption. In this context, a code of conduct is developed across the board and in coordination with the other local authorities. Each Government Party shall nominate a member of the Government for the coordination of administrative reform and eGovernment matters 13. Common contact point for all matters of social assistance and the labour market In the sense of faster resolution and simplification for customers, the benefits of social assistance, unemployment support, emergency aid, etc. to be concentrated on a single body (“One Stop Shop”) with a uniform appearance outside. For citizens, it is intended for all these areas, from social assistance to the benefits of the AMS, only give a point of contact. In view of the different structures underlying these benefits (precautionary principle, insurance principle), a complex structure is needed behind this ‘income portal’. A corresponding organisational concept is to be developed jointly by the Federal Government and the Länder, with the involvement of the municipalities and the AMS. With a view to the goal of a service-oriented One Stop Shop in the district administration authorities, it is intended to build on their experience as a citizen service company and efficient enforcement authorities of federal and state laws. The payout itself does not have to be mandatory by the authority, but can also be done by private (e.g. through banks and money institutions via chip card). However, the decision to grant must remain with the Authority. No agency should be created for this purpose. It is necessary that those authorities that run the One Stop Shop have a comprehensive access to data, in particular to financial management data. the social insurance institution (sickness insurance institutions). The reform is to be achieved through an agreement between the federal government and countries in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG. Today's federal financing obligations must be ensured. 14. A uniform concept of investment and parties In the interests of legal certainty for economic operators as well as safeguarding the interests of those concerned, a uniform concept of investment should be established. This would also involve a uniform concept of parties: In particular, it is about who is to be regarded as a affected neighbor and what rights are given to that neighbor. In order to achieve this goal as quickly as possible, an expert group should be set up at the Federal Chancellor's Office, in which experienced practitioners of the Federal Government, countries and municipalities are represented with much experience in the individual areas of investment law, which within half a year It is expected that the catalogue of measures will be drawn up. The legal basis for the formation of expert pools is also to be established. This will allow officials to be employed in all local authorities. 15. Task Reform In the case of laws and regulations, there is also the need to identify costs for the economy, the need for simplicity, clarity, etc. to respect regulations. The implementation of EU directives is intended to set out in particular standards that go beyond their transposition. Existing laws and regulations are subject to the criteria of follow-up costs and efficient regulatory mechanisms. light up. The review of rules that burden companies with administrative costs should continue and extend according to the ‘standard cost model’ and the results should be implemented as quickly as possible. Today's rights of participation between ministries are to be largely replaced by an information obligation. In order to reduce costs, reforms should be subject to the principle that the responsibility for tasks and expenditure falls together and, therefore, that unit, which decides on measures, is also the one to bear the costs. A cost calculation of the Federal Government for all administrative areas should be sought in accordance with the same principles. Improvements in efficiency are expected from the switch from individual to type-approvals, the one stop principle for the economy (in keeping with legal protection) and the widest concentration of authorisation and control activities. 16. EU participation Regular, up-to-date and active information is provided by the competent Federal Ministers in order to improve the participation of national and federal councils and countries in the EU's will-building process. 17. Constitutional adjustment Together with the first major constitutional innovations, a constitutional adjustment should be made on the basis of the proposals of the Committee 2 of the Austrian Convention and in accordance with the preparatory work of the working group set up to that end. In addition to the agreement of the parties in the Special Committee on State Borders and State Contracts, this constitutional adjustment is intended to constitute a general arrangement for non-profit-making authorities. In the future, state agreements, which are entitled to self-change, will be able to be adopted without a constitutional change. However, the National Council and the Federal Council are to be granted a right of reservation. The Federal Constitution provides for a general authorisation of the simple legislator for the exemption of public authorities. This authorisation lays down the minimum requirements for such authorities as to protect against their decisions, political responsibility for their decisions and parliamentary control rights. The stock of the legal protection bodies already established is secured by constitutional law. The representation of the Federal Ministers is simplified in agreement with the Presidency Office. The inclusion of a catalogue of basic principles and principles (state objectives) at the beginning of the Constitution should be sought (in particular social and liberal rule of law, peace policy, nuclear freedom, conservation of the water and forest). A further objective of the constitutional reform in this legislative period will be the creation of a “relative inclusion” bid, which will be comprehensive integration of all constitutional laws and constitutional provisions requires. For this purpose, the following principles shall apply: All essential provisions are to be merged into the main instrument of the Constitution. In addition, it is only the one express in the Constitution itself provide a ‘constitutional charter’ as well as a temporary Constitutional Accompanying Act. As constitutional stratators, historically significant constitutional laws are to remain part of the federal constitution. The Constitutional Accompaniment Act is intended to contain transitional provisions as well as temporary provisions, but it is also temporary. The numerous scattered constitutional provisions are to be incorporated or removed as constitutional law. Constitutional changes will be possible in the future only by changing the standard instrument of the Constitution. Constitutional rank with the exception of the Constitutional Strabants. The more detailed design of politically sensitive areas of substantive constitutional law, whose principles are determined only in the federal constitution, is to be carried out by “constitutional federal laws” which themselves are not formal constitutional law but are subject to an increased ("two-thirds legislation"). In order to improve citizens' access to justice, it is necessary to examine whether the legal information system of the Federal Government can be designed as an authentic legal source after a revision in the sense of a “permanent re-announcement”. The group of experts mentioned at the outset discussed the questions of a preamble and a change in the principle of legality. Economy/Location/Work Economic policy The Federal Government is committed to a social and ecologically sustainable market economy with fair competition. The Federal Government supports the future development of the market economy. Under fair, regulated conditions, accompanied by best-trained people, excellent infrastructure, functioning communities, ongoing renewal of social systems and social security of individuals, fair participation of all people in the development of gross domestic product with a view to increasing mass purchasing power, strengthening education including lifelong learning, the ongoing development of science, research and development, better working conditions and fair competition in the sense of a socially fair and innovative competitive economy. In addition, ensuring a comprehensive supply of affordable and high-quality services is ensured by the principle of universal services (e.g. in the field of telecommunications). The further development and improvement of the international competitiveness of the economic and labour location within the framework of the European Partnership for Growth and Employment – Lisbon Process – is a declared objective. Growth and economic policy An efficient growth and economic policy requires a balanced mix of expenditure-side and fiscal measures in the interests of greater growth and employment, with the Federal Government in particular seeking to set out the following measures and objectives: developing and modernising infrastructure; Infrastructural investment programme (rail, road, energy supply, communications networks), an old house restructuring programme with a focus on energy saving, an energy infrastructure development programme including the development of environmentally friendly energy and the use of energy saving facilities, Facilitating the application of PPP models by adapting relevant provisions for tenders; Release of the factor of work improving education and training; creation of a globally competitive innovation environment (research and development, education); raising the R & D ratio to 3% of GDP in the short term by 2010, and improving the quality of research and development policies by focusing on clustering between economy and science, strengthening active labour market policies, The Austrian industry, for example, plays a role in the development of the site. SMEs as subcontractors have a key role to play in this respect; leading competence units and the headquarters (headquarters policy) of Austria must be taken into account in economic and location policies, as well as in the continuing growing services sector. Specific measures for SMEs; reducing restrictions on competition, such as access to professions, and improving regulation to promote effective competition, innovative, cooperative and high-quality public administration; enhancing the efficiency of public administration; implementing a standard cost model, recovery and support of the Austrian capital market, an active foreign trade policy to support an export offensive; Support for Austrian companies in their internationalisation, particularly in the area of expansion through market development, acquisition of foreign companies and investments in Central and Eastern Europe Support for projects of Austrian companies in third world countries by means of development assistance measures; Focus-oriented business-settlement policy and promotion of direct investment; the best possible consideration of the interests of Austrian SMEs in the context of the procurement practice and in this regard examination of the internal Austrian legal framework, a support programme for the tourism and leisure industry; Cross-border support projects for the improvement and expansion of Austria's economic relations with the EU enlargement countries; the structure and policy of regional compensation; the best possible use of the EU Structural Funds; local development in cooperation with the EU using EU programmes; a balanced economic structure with the greatest possible value added in Austria a high-quality economic location based on ecological criteria for people; ensuring high-quality services of general interest, Sustainable continuation of employee participation with access for all employees (profit and/or capital participation). Competition policy Basics: Competition should take place in the interests of the people, consumers, the Austrian small and medium-sized enterprises, the Austrian industry and the employees in these enterprises. The State has a major responsibility for the functioning of the markets. To this end, the Federal Government intends to ensure the following: clear rules and strict control of the market a complete and high-quality control of market power abuse efficient merger control in selected areas according to national economic criteria Equal opportunities and fair competition in Austrian trade in order to ensure quality standards The introduction of a "Master's Business" protected seal as a guide for consumers, the report of an expert commission should be submitted by the end of 2007; proven dual training (praxis plus vocational school) will continue to be the usual training model for the industrial master’s or a career as a professional worker in the future. More competition in the professions Not only from competition policy but also from employment policy considerations, there should be more competition and easier access in the professions. The aim is to increase transparency in the various admission procedures with regard to the services offered, in order to improve career opportunities for graduates and professionals. Regional protection schemes should be reviewed for their needs. Finally, training periods, including necessary practical periods, will be reviewed in the direction of possible streamlining. Court of Justice In particular, the competences of the Bundeskartellanwalt and the BWB are to be merged into the BWB in order to avoid double-tracking. The creation of BWB's first-instance decision-making competence should be examined. Small and medium-sized enterprises The aim is to give small and medium-sized enterprises a secure basis for their economic activity and therefore real equal opportunities for SMEs. For the good future of small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria, it is necessary, in addition to the relief of the labour factor and a relief for small and medium-sized income, above all public investment and incentives for corporate investment, which the Federal Government acknowledges. In addition, the Federal Government aims to improve the framework conditions for SMEs in order to provide favourable capital for necessary investments, to facilitate business transfers legally, to promote tax and to provide comprehensive support for business start-ups. The promotion directives are to be reviewed with a view to innovation, employment and the creation of growth impulses. Facilitations in the case of operations: through one-stop-shops or agency solutions; by corrections in the field of plant law (extension of time limits for updating and adapting industrial installations on the occasion of the transfer of operations); The right to rent is to be improved in such a way that business rents cannot be increased by charge on the occasion of an operation transfer. In this sense, small businesses in particular should receive a certain extent of protection of rental rights. Offensive for young entrepreneurs: Costs for business founders by increasing competition in the field of professions (notaries, lawyers) continue to reduce and examine the establishment of a stability fund to provide risk capital to young innovative companies One-stop-shop principle, which also includes the support systems; adequate supply of incubators and/or incubators. Incubators shall be ensured on a cross-sectional basis; examine publicly funded founder coaching, ==References====External links==* Official website strengthen; make greater use of the existing possibilities of a capital guarantee. Microfinance for founders under appropriate conditions should be further expanded by adjusting the microcredit instrument. In particular, the micro-credit facility of the European Investment Fund EIF will also be used as best possible. Loading opening While maintaining the provisions on Sunday rest, the shop opening should be possible from Monday to Friday from 6 a.m. to 9 p.m., Saturday to 6 p.m. The weekly opening-up framework should be extended to 72 hours in accordance with a social partners' consensus. The reorganisation of shop opening times should enter into force by 1.1.2008 at the latest. Strengthening the financial location The Federal Government aims to ensure the best possible framework conditions for the Austrian capital market, in particular the successful Vienna Stock Exchange, in order to support the successful expansion of Austrian companies to the countries of Central and Eastern Europe as best possible. The basic objectives are: strengthening the Austrian capital market as a regional financial centre; a broad, needs-based financing of investments, i.e. an adequate supply of the economy with (risk) capital, strong core shareholders and a wide distribution of the shares, efficient financial market surveillance and regulation; measures against insider trade and abuse, improving the stronger liability of corporate governance; linking economic success with social responsibility (CSR) increased investor protection. Initiation of further regional investor clusters Investor clusters are to be initiated by the Federal Government and the federal states and supported by their establishment and operation. They can also be provided with state capital guarantees to motivate people to invest more strongly in their regional companies. Tourism and leisure Tourism has great importance for the local economy, jobs and the location Austria. The Federal Government is committed to promoting a growth-oriented tourism strategy with the aim of quality tourism throughout the year, to position small and medium-sized enterprises as powerful units of competition and destinations, to ensure the best possible qualification of workers and to promote the internationalisation of the home markets. In particular, this will be ensured by the following measures: setting up model regions; increase tourism promotion, in particular through the extension of guarantees and venture capital funds; Special support programmes for tourism schools; Ensuring a good application of the Euro 2008 (12 million). Euro with a 50:50 financing federal government:host cities respectively. countries); developing and supporting seasonal measures; Continued the Alpine protection programme. As an initiative for cultural tourism, the creation of a museum on the history of the Habsburgs in Schönbrunn Castle (“Imperial Austria”) is planned. Creative economy In order to meet the increasing economic importance of the Austrian creative economy, the Federal Government intends to take the following measures: Forcing cultural education and training; developing political, economic and social conditions to ensure spaces for all forms of art and culture; improving governance structures, i.e. linking cultural, economic and employment policies to develop the social and economic potential of the cultural sector; Building a consistent support tool for creative businesses, in particular strategy plan Creative economy, advice and know-how communication, expansion of innovation promotion, access to external sources of funding, etc.Use custom fonts; Strengthen the know-how transfer for copyright-based recovery strategies. External trade It is important to intervene more politically in the process of globalisation than in the past and to make greater use of opportunities as well as to stop negative developments. Social policy values, such as social compensation, cultural diversity and environmental protection, need to be found more clearly than before in the global economy's rule of law; it is a matter of making globalisation just. The Federal Government aims to further internationalise the Austrian economy, i.e. increase exports of goods, services and foreign direct investment. In view of the importance of the export economy and the need for further internationalisation of the Austrian economy, the Federal Government intends to continue the Internationalisation Plan. The Federal Government is committed to promoting the attractiveness of Austria as an investment location and as a seat of international companies (headquarters policy). Trade in services within the WTO and the GATS As part of its external trade policy, the Federal Government will work towards the following objectives: A continuation of (currently suspended) WTO Doha negotiations is of great importance given the economic importance of further improving market access and multilateral trade rules. The Federal Government will work as far as possible and balancedly as possible in the context of the EU. clear border crossing between commercial and public services: The Federal Government will work at EU level to ensure that public services such as health, education, water management, art and culture (including film) and public transport are not further liberalised in the ongoing GATS negotiations. Parliament will be fully informed and involved on the ongoing negotiations. As far as the public is concerned, maximum transparency is ensured within the framework of EU standards. European Economy Taking advantage of opportunities for the economy in Europe The Federal Government wants to make the best possible use of the opportunities Europe and the European Union offer to the Austrian economy and will therefore take the following measures within the framework of the European Union: developing trans-European networks, promoting new technologies in the field of top-level technology and implementing technologies for SMEs; Priority in the EU budget for economic measures; strengthening SMEs by reducing market entry barriers and improving access to capital markets; Environmental protection and/or environmental protection respectively. sustainable economy as an element of economic and social development. The transitional periods for freedom of movement for workers and freedom to provide services are to be used offensively to prepare the Austrian labour market and the border regions for opening up to Central and Eastern Europe. Labour market & working world The aim of our policy is growth and full employment. Many of the projects in this Chapter of the Government Programme are based on joint social partners' proposals from the "Growth and Growth" document. Full employment (December 2006) and the WIFO White Paper “More employment through growth based on innovation and skills” (October 2006). The above documents contain not only more details but also other useful proposals to strengthen the Austrian labour market. A minimum Pay of € 1000 per month on a full-time basis is to be implemented by the social partners under a general collective agreement. (1) Youth employment/Teachers Objectives: Strengthening the teaching; more powerful apprentices at a higher level. Better permeability between the apprenticeship system and the school/university education system; no degree without a follow-up educational chance (no dead end). Measures: Extension of the Blum bonus by one year to 6/2008 (verify modification towards strengthening future professions and quality criteria) Further development of the JASG through regular initial training courses with teaching or equivalent degree (practical school offers, over-company teaching workshops) Reform of the 9th. School level - Rehabilitation possibilities of lack of basic knowledge and intensive and practical vocational orientation For young people who have completed initial training several times, this school offer is to be extended to prepare for initial vocational training (Danish model) Profession matura: Better accountability of the course examination for the subject area examination. Vocational school: Increased permeability Vocational school – other schools: improved accounting. The first and second years of the course; at the same time, prior mediation procedure (conclusion before the date of termination) and then the apprentice's guarantee of admission into the initial training courses. Pre-initiation of the modular approach at the social partners level by mid-2007 Maintain the apprenticeship training premium of € 1,000. Extend the promotion of over-company training associations (existing models OÖ, Tirol, Vorarlberg) throughout the federal territory. The apprenticeship training premium is also provided for these allies. Research on the curriculum of vocational schools for the anchoring of foreign language skills, IT training and key qualifications; better training and training opportunities for trainees. 2) Training Objectives: Education and knowledge site Austria: Development as a location of excellence, further reduction of social selection in access to education. Forcing lifelong learning (LLL). Measures: Preparation of an LLL Strategy Paper (WIFI, BFI, LFI): Attraction of the educational career, further training in placement foundations, job rotation models and qualification associations, etc. Regionalisation of continuing training: Regional social partners network sectors, businesses and regional institutions and develop target group-specific strategies to remove barriers to training and contribute to increasing participation in continuing training (Learning region) Reform and attracting the educational career: it remains employers – employees, facilitation for use: only 1 year instead of 3 years of working life, Training allowance – level of the fictitious unemployment benefit. Supporting continuing training for the 40+ generation (3) Older workers Objective: National action programme to increase the employment rate and capacity of older people (Lisbon objective) Measures: More customer-friendly use of the integration aid by means of integration aid checks in cooperation with the AMS Reorganisation of the age-part-time scheme: by mid-2007, as proposed by the social partners Advice, care and integration offers for workers at risk of health or at risk of harm systematizing and pooling (target: comprehensive offer). AMS: Force cooperation with private and non-profit workers specifically for the group of older workers. 4) Active labour market policy Objectives: continuation of the AMS policy “activating, promoting and qualifying the unemployed instead of managing”; Incentives in demand. To improve the quality of active labour market policies including communication. Increase customer satisfaction (employers and job-seekers). Measures: Modernisation and improvement of work placement and care: Increased use of the principle of individual case care through systematic case management, increased use of private providers using success-dependent fees. Reducing the care key for groups of job-seekers. Close links between private and state employment. Progress of the project “Youth a Chance” by the AMS. Long-term unemployed: To encourage employment in private and non-profit workers. Availability provisions: After completion of the evaluation, which runs until summer 2007, modifications to the efficiency, effectiveness and Austrian-wide mobility of job-seekers with further consideration of care obligations. Better coordination of unemployment benefit, emergency assistance and social assistance to avoid supply gaps and under-supply; within the framework of the existing financing structure. Examination of a reduction in additional labour costs in the framework of the next tax reform Review of legal obstacles to job-seekers who want to make further training, e.g. evening study during unemployment. Evaluation Communautaire model for problem groups in the labour market (5) Migration – Labour market integration – Foreign employment Objectives: Preparation of the Austrian labour market for the removal of transitional periods. Selective immigration by key forces with need testing. Measures: Seasonal kidneys: Priority for EU members without free movement. In the field of agriculture, after three years of work as a seasonal person, the duration of activity will be extended to nine months from the fourth year onwards. Bilateral agreements between the individual States: During the transitional periods, bilateral employment agreements with the new Member States should be concluded, primarily with neighbouring countries. Cross-border cooperation between the national AMS, particularly in the border regions. Key forces: Flexibility within the existing key force quota. The need for government, social partners, AMS and WIFO for the next 24 months. Specialists: For professionals from the new EU Member States, flexible allocations of employment permits are provided for in sectors with special labour market potential which does not cover the available labour market. The social partners should be consulted in the context of a labour market audit to propose any accompanying measures. Researchers: Further exception for researchers from the Foreign Employment Act, which also allows their activity beyond pure research institutions in all sectors of the economy. In addition, researchers are expected to provide the key forces by means of appropriate adaptations to the local and resident legislation. (b) to be equalised. Extensive integration of migrants. Services Directive: Acting for an EU-wide administrative enforcement agreement within the framework of national transpositions of the Services Directive in order to be able to effectively combat social and wage dumping. 6) Fight against undeclared work Objective: Increase in income from taxes and social security contributions by reducing undeclared work. Measures: Control of all newly established construction companies immediately after the resolution of the tax number or from the notification to BUAK by BMF's BMF's collecting service in respect of its basic business organisational requirements (infrastructure), in relation to its business object. Strengthened control of foreign employment and cross-border workers and wage and working conditions; Improving the enforcement of the Entrepreneurship Directive in the EU. Social security registration before taking up employment More stringent sanctions against buffering unemployed, emergency workers and beneficiaries of social assistance, e.g. the first time 6 weeks, the second time 12 weeks. General Entrepreneur/Subcontractor: Liability “contractors/general contractors” for service providers’ contributions to social security for employees of the subcontractor/contractor as a guarantee. § 1355 ABGB (not a guarantee and payer, but a guarantee). Effective measures against barber resistance. Making criminal offences more realistic in the Social Fraud Act. 7) Flexibility of working time Objectives: Flexibility of legal working time law, taking into account the EU Working Time Directive. implementation in a material way by the collective contractual partners. Improved enforcement of working time protection to promote health protection and the compatibility of work and family respectively. Free time. More cost-effectiveness between part-time work and full-time work in order to limit the separation of full-time jobs in non-existent part-time jobs; fair pay for the flexibility of part-time workers introduced in the business interest. Simplification of such flexible working time models in the interest of both parties to the labour contract. Measures: Flexibility of statutory working time law: Increase the daily and weekly maximum working time limits (12/60) by extending the existing regulation of § 7 (4) of the AZG (extension of the a maximum of 12 weeks up to 24 weeks (3 times 8, between at least 2 weeks not additional overtime); Opening also for written individual agreements in establishments without works councils in the event of occupational safety) 12-hour layers by collective contract in the event of occupational safety. Collective contractual design options: General authorization to the collective agreement to increase the daily normal working time to up to 10 hours. Strengthening the operational level: The level of operation should always be authorised to regulate if there is no collective-contractual representation of interests on the employer side. Flexible slide time: Increase the daily normal working time to 10 hours. 4-day week: The Working Time Act - even for non-related days - should allow a 4-day week (4 times 10 hours) by operating agreement, in operations without works councils through individual agreement. Working through regular additional work in connection with holidays: Entry period in principle 13 (instead of 7) weeks, daily normal working time up to 10 hours. Flexibility of the situation of weekend rest in shift operation. Annual working time models are possible on a KV basis. Supplement for part-time workers in the event of additional work (no supplement will be made if the contractually agreed length of working time is adjusted). measures against infringements of the law on working time. Simplification of the rules on the reduction of time resources (§19f AZG). (8) Employment law Re-codification of labour rights to eliminate the current division of law and to create employment contract law on the basis of proposals from the social partners. The preparation of a restructuring proposal will take place by the end of 2007. The creation of a modern, uniform worker concept in all relevant legal instruments. 9) Social security for atypical workers and self-employed persons Objective: Higher social security. Measures: Inclusion of self-employed persons into unemployment insurance under an option model, while respecting the rights acquired so far. Free movement of persons: The same social security protection as real employees (ASVG) and contributions to the employee pension fund: full KV, UV, PV, ALV, BMVG, ev. ISG. Research, innovation, technology The challenge is to make a qualitative and quantitative leap forward. The main focus is on achieving the 3% research rate as well as the continuation of structural change: In the next few years, Austria will increasingly become an independent producer of top technology and a top-ranking research location. Austria must develop from the low and medium-sized technology sector to the supplier of high-tech technology. That is why our research and innovation structures for the Oberliga game need to be strengthened. Such a strategy is crucial for growth and employment in Austria. 1. Investing more and more in the long term in research, technology and innovation Austria is to achieve the Lisbon objectives in the FTI area: Based on multi-annual planning, the research rate will be increased to 3% by 2010. These investments are intended to trigger as high private research investment as possible in order to establish the ratio 1/3 publicly financed to 2/3 private R & D quota. For the public sector, this means that the existing budgets and funds of the National Foundation and the currently EUR 295 million from the Offensive Funds (Technology Billions) in 2007 will add 50 million, 100 million in 2008 and 250 million in 2009. and in 2010 by 400 million. Euro will be increased. On this basis, federal expenditure is expected to rise by around 10% per year by 2010. Special attention will be paid to long-term financing security. The Council for Research and Technology Development will continue its advisory role. The separation of strategic and operational tasks must be carried out between ministries and agencies. The very large number of individual funding programmes will be further adjusted by means of portfolio analysis, pooling and priority setting. The results of evaluations are to be taken into account. For the Austrian FTI policy, the European Research Area is an important guide framework. It contributes to its development and tries to benefit from its initiatives, including European research programmes. An efficient and effective tax research funding should be further ensured and further optimised with regard to its impact on smaller companies. 2. Investing means: Building and developing human resources People and their development potential are the largest FTI resource and are particularly supported: Youth promotion, mobility and women are the focus. In the next four years there will be funds for 1000 new jobs for young researchers (postdocs) in the public research system, especially at universities according to budgetary possibilities. The attractiveness of women's research careers and their ability to co-design will be enhanced by institutional and programme-related measures. The objective is a clear increase in the share of women in the public and private sectors. The further development of the structures for the first years as a researcher at the university is crucial for the entire research system: The conversion of doctoral education towards graduate schools is therefore a high priority. Mobility from and to Austria as well as between the sectors should continue to increase in the sense of increasing the attractiveness of the research site Austria. ÖAD as BundesGmbH establish. 3rd. An excellence strategy for the research and innovation location Austria Structural change and technology leadership require excellent public research structures: The universities must be particularly supported in their structural change and in their priority education. With its competitive allocation, the FWF plays a central role in this and is to be further strengthened in the context of the additional funds. This applies to the established promotions and the new clusters of excellence as well as to overhead payments. Cooperation Economics – Science should continue to be publicly supported both directly and through structured initiatives, as well as through the long-term Excellence Programme for Competence Centres (COMET). Institutions and sites with special quality requirements and structural effects on the entire research system are to be developed and expanded: This applies to new initiatives (e.g. ISTA) as well as existing top-level research sites (e.g. Vienna Biocenter). In the institutional context, the reform of the Academy of Sciences is of great importance. 4. Forcing research in the enterprise sector Technology leadership is achieved by companies. This ensures jobs at the Austrian site. They need and receive strong incentives from the public sector: Austria is expected to be consistently attractive as a location for F&E headquarters. With its competitive allocation, the FFG plays a central role and is to be strengthened budgetaryly within the framework of the additional funds. (enhanced bottom-up promotion of technologically radical, risky developments) The measures to increase the number of SMEs with their own R & D activities, as well as innovation performance, should also be carried out in cooperation with universities, research institutions and colleges (technology and innovation transfer) This is the first time that we have been able to In this context, good coordination between federal and federal states is particularly important. Promotion of new business start-ups: Spin offs, start-ups and early growth phases are to be promoted with a wide mix of instruments. Thematic programmes are to be expanded where Austria understandably has outstanding strength fields and/or a social need. Position the new energy funds created by the energy industry. Ensuring slim management and competent handling by and in the FFG. Infrastructure Transport infrastructure and infrastructure projects A modern infrastructure is essential for the success of Austria's economic location. Transport routes – rail, road and Danube – aviation and telecommunications are the life lines of our modern society. They connect people with each other and Austria with the crucial markets for the future. A modern transport policy for people must be based both on the transport needs of the economy and on the social mobility needs of people, as well as on the objectives of environmental protection and the protection of life and health in order to improve the quality of life in Austria as a whole. Due to a meaningful intermodal link between the individual modes of transport, the transport system is optimised. This will ensure the efficient use of the existing Capacity enabled. In order to prevent further shift of modal split at the expense of environmentally compatible modes of transport, it is particularly necessary to force the attraction of rail and waterway. A significant contribution to this can be made to the production of more cost-effectiveness in transport, including external effects. 1.1 Infrastructure planning In order to strengthen the economic location and manage traffic, the infrastructure projects listed in the six-year framework plan of the ÖBB and the ASFINAG construction programme are to be implemented in a timely manner. Prioritisation according to economic criteria: the prioritisation of gaps and the elimination of bottlenecks in the high-level network; in particular, the implementation of those measures in the framework plan, which improve the existing network and are necessary as conditions for operational rationalisation and improvements in the sales sector; The basis of such a plan shall be the functional requirements (performance criteria) on the corridors and axes to be provided with a description of the necessary investments. In order to strengthen the economic location and manage traffic, the infrastructure projects listed in the six-year framework plan of the ÖBB and the ASFINAG construction programme are to be implemented in a timely manner. In order to implement the ÖBB Framework Plan, an investment volume of hr. 6 billion. The investment volume for the construction programme of Asfinag is expected to be 4.5 billion € included. Thus, more than 10 billion euros will be made available for the infrastructure offensive. In addition, the The transfer of the high-level road network to ASFINAG's ownership with the aim of improving capital requirements (IFRS). In the case of road and rail infrastructure, construction costs must be reduced in a massive way. On the basis of European benchmarks, all projects need to be reviewed on the basis of route guidance and development standards. This means that the existing investment plans of Asfinag and ÖBB provide a saving potential of at least 10%. In order to finance the infrastructure offensive, the truck toll is increased by 4 cents and the mineral oil tax on petrol by 1 cent and on diesel by 3 cents. To strengthen the competitiveness of the Austrian transport industry, the car tax for trucks is halved. 1.2 Corridor concept as the basis for infrastructure planning Consideration of the main transport axes in the form of corridors has proved successful. In the context of the development of infrastructure projects, these corridors should be defined in accordance with the requirements of European integration and the regional structure of Austria. For each of these corridors, functional requirements for their performance must be developed. The connection of the individual corridors takes place in the nodes to be defined. In addition to the regional distribution, the intermodal link will also take place, which will enable the overall transport system to be optimised. Against this background, the following points should be added to the individual projects of the ÖBB Framework Plan and the ASFINAG construction programme: Economic efficiency of the project (economic consideration for the infrastructure manager and for each relevant user, incl. Public budgets) The project contributes to the elimination of capacity bottlenecks and/or capacity bottlenecks. Locking gap Transport effect (including interaction between different modes of transport in the corridor) Effects (external effects) Public transport For the agglomeration centres, high quality public transport is an economic survival issue. Cities with poor public transport would collapse economically and ecologically. For rural regions, public transport is an essential prerequisite for mobility. Here he is general provision and serves social justice. Therefore, the offer should be attractive here. Austria will reduce its greenhouse gas emissions and fine dust and nitrogen oxide emissions in the European equinox. Public transport is an important alternative to achieve this without reducing mobility and hence competitiveness and social cohesion. 1.3 Need for action Further development of an efficient and manageable transport financing system with the local authorities Use of new transport trains at ÖBB Development and improvement of tactile transport Introduction of a ticket valid for all public transport in Austria (Austria-Ticket) Improvement and coordination of Austrian transport agents Definition of a guaranteed basic offer in public transport Definition of the necessary infrastructure Extension of the bus offer by increasing the order promotion Continued metro expansion in Vienna Evaluation based on accessibility models ITS (Intelligent Transport Systems) and Mobility Management The positioning of Austria as a TEN node in the centre of the extended EU and general transport trends within regions and agglomerations require an intermodal ITS and mobility management strategy for Austria as a whole. An integral part of such a strategy must therefore also include an Austrian-wide transport information system including all public transport. Rail transport The Austrian Bundesbahnen must undergo an examination to further optimize the corporate structure. Further reforms in the railway sector are intended to increase productivity and ensure the best possible efficiency of the use of resources in the overall company. Further flexibilisation of the public service law of public service providers with the involvement of the relevant social partners. The financial objectives of the 2003 ÖBB reform are to be implemented by the management of ÖBB, and further improvements in sales results must increase the own funding of ÖBB For ÖBB, a balanced and sustainable investment policy should be ensured in the medium term. In order to enable infrastructure expansion, appropriate arrangements should be made in the budget. In any case, the resulting amortisations should be taken into account. In accordance with the EU Road Costs Directive, the inclusion of external costs will increase cost reliability and enable cross-financing from road to rail from 2008 onwards. The possibilities for cross-financing due to the existing road cost RL are fully exploited Promotion of connection lines, terminals and surface control Forcing cost-effective trans-shipment systems in combined transport Inland waterway transport Inland waterway transport as an undisputed safe and environmentally friendly mode of transport must become of importance. In addition, protection of the population from floods and floods is a top priority. Measures: Implementation of the “Integrated European action programme for inland waterway transport – NAIADES” and the Austrian “National Action Plan for Danube Shipping” (NAP) Further expansion of ports to Trimodal handling centres according to budgetary possibilities Flood protection projects along the Danube in accordance with 15a B-VG agreement (Bund, OÖ, NÖ, W) amounting to 420 million. Apply € until 2015 as well as along the March. Aviation location Aviation is an essential mobility provider of Austria's economic location and indispensable for Austria's tourism country. Austria must remain attractive and significant as an air transport location. Measures: Development of a National Plan of Action for Aviation by 2015, strengthening Austrian airlines and developing high-performance airports; increasing the efficiency of the aviation authority; the elimination of infrastructure bottlenecks both on the ground and in the air; strengthened orientation of the airline location Austria as a hub for the new markets in Eastern Europe and Asia, quality offensive for the aeronautical location (reform of the safety charge, one-stop security, improvement of the delay situation in the airspace Vienna as well as environmental and aviation noise), Intermodal networking with all other modes of transport. The main objective of aviation is to ensure an optimal link between Austria and the European and international economic centres. To this end, the sustainable strengthening of the AUA as a national carrier as well as the expansion of the Vienna Schwechat airport to the International Aviation Rotary. The Vienna Airport Internationalisation Strategy is supported. In order to improve the use of airspace, the project of a Central European Aviation System (CEATS) should be pursued and the relevant airspace surveillance centre established in Austria should be set up. Transport safety Long-term objective must be the so-called “Zero vision”, namely the complete prevention of road fatalities. Measures are as follows: The evaluation and improvement of recently adopted transport safety measures such as ‘primary system’ or ‘light on the day’. Traffic control systems for flexible adjustment of speed limitation according to weather conditions, traffic density, etc. to prevent accidents and accidents. In the sense and with the aim of a uniform vote, the release of speed limits shall be: Motorways and highways according to Immissionsschutzgesetz Luft are federal competence. Increased safety awareness through increased awareness, training and public work, as well as the promotion of modern vehicle safety technologies. In view of the increasing number of accidents in heavy traffic, greater controls are being carried out. In particular, compliance with steering and rest periods, but also weekend driving bans and loading regulations. The aim is to ensure uniform nationally high-quality driving training. The teaching of the professional driver should be adapted in accordance with EU rules in such a way as to ensure equality in the examination of qualifications with the training of the professional driver. The right of professional protection for trucks and bus drivers is to be secured Review of road traffic laws on the allocation of penalties to the controller Transit In the years 1994 to 2004 there was an increase of about 70% between 63 and 107 million tonnes per year in alpine transport. In this respect, transit traffic increased by 96%, target source traffic by 68% and inland transport by 25%. 42% of road freight transit across the Austrian Alps runs over the Brenner. Especially high growth will be the East-West transport, while the North-South transit is commuting at a high level. The Federal Government will develop a new strategy for greater cost-reliance in freight transport. In addition, work is being carried out on the construction of an Alpine transit exchange with the Austrian neighbours. For the construction of the Brenner Base Tunnel as a powerful alternative to transport to the road, special financing must be established outside the ÖBB Framework Plan and the corresponding design of the transport policy framework with Italy and Germany and the EU. Different truck tolls from 2010 The Federal Government ensures that truck toll differentiation does not lead to an erosion of the assessment base at the truck toll. Changes in the truck fleet composition must therefore be reflected in the truck toll. Effective and non-discrimination-free truck bans In Austria and other EU Member States, limit values are found in fine dust and nitrogen oxides under the EU Air Content Directive. In Austria, the law on the imposition of bans on trucks (Immissions Protection Act Air) is to be revised with regard to the harmonisation of EU standards. At EU level, the possibility of extending sectoral truck bans must be created. Procedure acceleration To improve the efficiency and speed of implementation of trans-regional infrastructure projects, a uniform nationally streamlining, simplification and reduction of planning processes in road and rail construction as well as in the field of energy infrastructure will be implemented. Measures: Optimization of spatial planning policy between municipalities, land and federal government in federal projects, while respecting the interests of private property owners rapid expansion of the 380 KV lines In order to make optimum use of the innovative strength and efficiency of the private sector and the control of the public sector, e.g. Germany, The Netherlands or the United Kingdom will set up a competence centre for PPP projects. In addition to the process acceleration, measures must be taken to reduce environmental costs in the construction of road and rail infrastructure. In particular, it is necessary to review the appropriateness and need for existing standards of extension and marketing. Any cost increases due to the over-fulfilment of EU rules must be avoided. Agriculture and rural areas: natural livelihoods competitive and powerful development The government parties are committed to the development of the rural area. The essential condition for this is agricultural, sustainable and competitive agriculture to ensure the natural basis of life. The EU's rural development is an essential cornerstone. For Austria 3,9 billion for the period 2007-2013. Euro EU funds are available and are co-financed nationally by doubling. These funds are set up by the Federal Government and the Länder in relation to 60 : 40. Implementation of Green Pact – Sustainable agriculture With the Green Pact, Austria was the first country to submit to the EU a comprehensive and balanced programme for the promotion and development of the whole rural area for the period 2007 to 2013. The three pillars – mining programme of 276 million annually. Euro, global environmental programme with 527 million Euro as well as the investment offensive – the regional offensive complements 96 million euros per year for all rural areas, small and medium-sized enterprises and strengthens our communities. This will also increase the bio-agricultural sector in the future. The implementation of the 2003 CAP reform must be legalised by establishing a constitutional-compliant legal basis for the implementation of Community law. The government parties agree to anchor the current market rules under a new market regulation law in the interests of legal certainty for farmers. Strengthen quality production and take labour input into account In the field of market regulation, the Federal Government will clearly position itself in future negotiations to ensure that at EU level the intensity of the Work input in agriculture and the quality of products as criteria for direct payments, as well as a business-size modulation for large businesses in Europe, will be mandatory and subsequently introduced in Austria. To ensure our farmed family farms The Federal Government is committed to a farming, natural agriculture. All enterprises will continue to operate in the future, regardless of their size and production direction, with a fair share of income development. In addition to market revenues, this also includes direct payments. In order to improve social security, adaptations should be made: The age limit for occupational protection should be reduced to 50 years analogous to the traders. The unit value system shall be maintained. Continue to strengthen competitive conditions We want fair conditions for a strong and competitive agriculture and forestry in the European context. That means: Ensuring the EU wide authorisation of operating resources for Europe-wide high quality standards National action plan on innovation and red tape Export Initiative/GenussRegionAustria/Marketing/Regional Supply The Food Export Initiative will continue to increase value added in Austria and to secure and create jobs, as will the “Enjoy region Austria” initiative to identify regions with typical and traditional agricultural products, to identify regional specialities, and to allow attractive offers for consumers, gastronomy and tourism. ==References====External links== production conditions, particularly in the area of regionalised products and the protection of specialties, are important objectives of a quality-oriented food policy. The health safety of all foods is a priority. It is therefore necessary to ensure the funding of the Agency for Health and Food Safety in order to enable and strengthen the Agency's function as a centre of competence and service for health and food safety even at the highest scientific level in the future. In order to strengthen local supply in rural areas, more opportunities will be created for farmers in the industrial sector. In addition, the Federal Government is committed to supporting and strengthening the economic structure in rural areas for cooperation and the promotion of small businesses in the fields of commerce, tourism, local supply and food culture. Continue to ensure the freedom of genetic engineering The Federal Government advocates appropriate framework conditions such as: Defence of national prohibition regulations and functioning co-existence schemes at European level. Freedom of choice and therefore freedom of genetic engineering for organic, but also conventional, businesses as well as consumers must be guaranteed in the future. The Federal Government is supporting the federal states in the creation of voluntary non-genotechnic regions. Promote training and agricultural research The provision of specialised training facilities in the form of vocational higher schools, vocational schools and vocational schools for agricultural and forestry-oriented training and training needs to be extended. Adult education is an integral part of the rural education concept. Approved institutions should be supported in the provision and development of the offer financially and in terms of content. As a guarantee for rural businesses to keep pace with general trends, developments and requirements, advisory services should be provided. In order to increase competitiveness, it is necessary to invest more in agricultural research, particularly in the areas of genetic engineering and renewable energy. Continue to Strengthen Rural Space The Federal Government is committed to strengthening a vital rural area. Further steps are needed: increased financial resources for small and medium-sized communities, increased participation, especially of women and young people, increased participation in the innovation system by improving the level of training and strengthening the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises and farms. More opportunities for women in rural areas At around 40% of the Austrian courts, women have already been identified as farm leaders, and this requires special emphasis on training and training. Increased involvement in the political, economic and social decision-making process and thus in political bodies is therefore of great importance. In order to improve the compatibility of family and work, an increased offer of part-time employment for child rearing is necessary, but also a comprehensive practical offer for childcare. Rural Technology Plan The promotion of modern communication technologies in rural areas will continue to be strengthened. A 500 million euros broadband offensive will take place. a. financed by Deutsche Telekom with 300 million euros. Security of settlements and habitats In the sense of preventive flood protection and avalanche protection, joint planning and financing by the federal, state and local authorities must be ensured. For the Federal Government, the disaster fund is a proven and continuing financial instrument. 160 million euros are made available per year to accelerate planned protection projects. In order to improve the efficiency of the protection measures, all relevant agents of the Federal Government and countries must be pooled in an agency for protection against natural hazards in the BMLFUW. This concerns streams of wildlife as well as all rivers and waterways. The protection projects should, as far as possible, give priority to measures close to nature. The Austrian forest: Secure and enable new tasks in a sustainable manner The government parties are committed to preserving the diverse functions of the Austrian forest. The conservation and improvement of forests must be a priority. In order to increase the use of biomass to increase energy safety, additional wood should be mobilised. To protect forests, the implementation of the Alpine Convention Mountain Forest Protocol and the EU Forest Action Plan should be required. For use in the leisure sector are contractual regulations of forest owners with interested parties, municipalities, tourism etc. to develop. Water: Maintain cleaners, strengthen regional competence and benefit ecologically Austria must maintain its high water and water quality. For water supply and wastewater treatment facilities in the cities and municipalities, the financial resources of the urban water industry shall be provided to the extent necessary. The core competence for water services must remain with the cities and communities in the future. Austria will continue to have its water resources on its own in the future. The principle of unanimity within the EU must be maintained. The right of ownership of groundwater must: remain bound to soil and soil and subject to strict restrictions of water law. The implementation of the Water Framework Directive must be continued consistently, ensuring the sustainable use of hydropower and the necessary financial resources to promote the measures. Safe energy. Safe future. For the Austrian Federal Government, ensuring sustainable energy supply in Austria is one of the key challenges of the coming years and decades. In order to increase security of supply with energy and reduce the import of fossil energy, we are increasingly focusing on renewable energy sources, domestic energy production, energy savings, as well as on intensive energy research and new energy technologies. The provision of low-cost energy for consumers and the economy through domestic energy production, security of supply and the promotion of European competition is our goal. Use renewable energies increase in renewable energy in total energy consumption to at least 25% by 2010 and doubling to 45% by 2020 Increase in the share of renewable electricity generation to 80% by 2010, 85% by 2020 Conversion from at least 40 0.000 households to renewable energy sources by 2020, including 100,000 households by 2010 Turnover neutral increase in alternative fuels in the transport sector to 10% by 2010, to 20% by 2020 Master plan for optimal use of hydropower Doubling biomass use by 2010 Non-profit creation of a methane fuel of at least 20 % Biomethane by 2010 Surface-covering network of E85 and Methangas service stations by 2010 Improving the legal framework for biogas supply Save Energy The aim is to strengthen decoupling between economic growth and energy consumption to improve energy intensity. The coordination of a national energy efficiency action programme is carried out by the Austrian Energy Agency. National Energy Efficiency Action Programme Increase energy intensity by at least 5% by 2010, by at least 20% by 2020 Energy check for all Austrian households by 2010 Increasing the recovery rate in residential construction, thus enabling the thermal renovation of all post-war buildings (1950 – 1980) by 2020 In the case of new buildings, the Federal Government, together with the federal states, forces low-energy and passive house standards For 50% of the new building, a climate: active standard is sought From 2015, only more houses and buildings in large-volume housing will be promoted in the area of housing development, which correspond to the “climate active passive house standard” Development and use of energy-efficient devices and solutions (standby) Development of combined heat and power as an efficient process for electricity and heat generation Austrian electricity industry As part of a further consolidation of the electricity industry in Austria, the position of Austrian companies in the European internal electricity market is to be strengthened.At the same time, a focus on renewable energies is to be developed in order to strengthen the international positioning of Austria as a know-how carrier of renewable energy technologies. The gap in the Austrian 380 kV circuit ring is to be reached without delay in order to ensure a reduction of a large-scale power loss risk and the continuous safeguarding of the power supply of companies and households. In the field of grid technology and grid control, increasing decentralised power generation is intended to find new innovative solutions for cost-effective maintenance of grid stability and voltage quality. Energy and climate protection funds In order to achieve the ambitious energy policy objectives and trigger important research and technology impulses, a public law energy and climate protection funds with EUR 500 million, together with the Austrian energy industry, will be created. The objective of the Austrian Energy and Climate Fund is to make a significant contribution in the field of energy research and development to the doubling of renewable energy sources in total energy consumption in Austria by 2020. In concrete terms, the Fund aims to bring new technologies for sustainable energy supply and efficient energy use into economic maturity, to support market penetration of these technologies, and to ensure security of supply through regional resources to increase. The implementation of the objectives of the Energy and Climate Fund should also strengthen the Austrian economic location and Austria's leading role in energy and environmental technology. Reduce energy dependence Austria must increasingly reduce unilateral dependence on energy imports and keep access to as many energy markets open. As a result, competition among producers can be generated and monopoly trends weakened, which can ensure that all citizens and businesses have the most cost-effective and non-discriminatory access to energy. For this purpose, the development of new transport options within the framework of the trans-European networks and the Nabucco gas pipeline as well as the connection to LNG terminals (liquid natural gas) are important elements. Support stabilisation It is precisely because our country remains dependent on energy supplies from political crisis regions that we need to strengthen efforts to stabilise these regions and to strengthen cooperation. Any investment in the political stability of these countries is also an investment in our security of supply. This means, in concrete terms, strengthening the consideration of energy policy concerns in foreign policy. Development of European external energy policy Austria should give impetus to a European external energy policy. Especially when it comes to market access, but also to stability and democracy initiatives, a closed EU policy towards supplier countries and regions can be more effective than single entry of individual countries. Protection of the environment. Take advantage of opportunities. The aim of the Austrian Federal Government is to further develop the sustainable protection of our environment, the secure and sustainable supply of energy and the sustainable promotion of rural areas to preserve the high quality of life of the population and to ensure the livelihoods of our children. The Federal Government is based on the principle that the challenges of modern industrial, educational and service society in the field of environmental and energy policy can only be solved with the methods and innovativeness of this modern society. A modern environmental policy should also strengthen the medium to long-term competitiveness of industry and industry and contribute positively to growth, employment, technology development and technology application. With ambitious but medium-term stable, environmental standards, the innovative power of the economy is to be better used. Active climate protection The objective of Austrian climate policy is to ensure the achievement of the national Kyoto target. For example, the focus lies on: to promote renewable energy and to increase energy efficiency. The updated national climate strategy will be developed quickly by the Federal Government, decided, financed to the extent necessary and fully implemented by all local authorities. A report will be submitted to Parliament each year. Creation of a national climate protection programme including climate research and climate impact research as part of the new climate strategy Inclusion of air transport emissions into climate protection Emerging opportunities in environmental technology In the entire Austrian environmental engineering industry, some 20,000 employees generate sales of around 4 billion. Euro. We strive to double the share of environmental technology in GDP and jobs in the field of environmental technology. Finalisation and implementation of the Environmental Technology Master Plan with the federal states Forcing export offensive environmental technology Creation of a Federal Agency for Environmental and Energy Technology More quality of life through clean air and less noise Clean air and less noise are objectives that can significantly increase the quality of life especially in agglomerations. Sustainable action plans to reduce noise pollution Joint action programme for clean air from the Federal Government and the Länder Evaluation and efficiency improvement Immission Law Air Research platform on fine dust Initiatives to explore possible health-damaging effects of electromagnetic fields (“electromagne”) Fast completion of a national programme to reduce Air pollutants, in particular NOx, to achieve the objectives of the Emissions MRL Act or the Emissions MRL. of the NEC Directive Incentive system for diesel particulate filters in construction machinery Urban Ecology Action Plan for the implementation of the EU Strategy Environmentally friendly mobility Increased public transport, better interaction of all public links, accessibility and public transport will be implemented. We use other environmentally friendly means of transport a sustainable change in the drive and fuel technologies used in the passenger car sector. Double the share of bicycle traffic to 10% by 2015 by better planning networking of the individual local authorities Turnover neutral increase in alternative fuels in the transport sector to 10% by 2010, to 20% by 2020 5% of newly approved cars with alternative drives by 2010, e.g. Hybrid, e-85 or gas cars Surface-covering network of E85 and Methangas service stations by 2010 Income-neutral creation of methane fuel with at least 20% biomethane by 2010 Improving the legal framework for biogas supply Limitation and re-evaluation of fuel tourism in EU climate policy Efficient use of resources and responsible waste We strive to reduce resource consumption in terms of economic growth and the best possible exploitation of the chemical cycles. creation and speedy implementation of a national action programme on resource efficiency and waste prevention. In the event of non-compliance with the objectives agreed in the sustainability agenda by the beverage industry, the Federal Government will take effective measures to ensure the multi-way share. In order to force closed cycles in the chemical industry and reduce the environmental pollution caused by chemicals, innovative systems such as for example, to promote chemical leasing. The voluntary labelling of consumer goods through chemicals used in the production process is supported. This will improve transparency for consumers in the interests of consumer safety. Sustainability The Federal Government is committed to sustainability in all policy areas and focuses its action on environmental, social and economic aspects. In reviewing the Austrian sustainability strategy and in particular its implementation, more emphasis should be placed on the public sector. Ecologisation of public procurement In the education of awareness, accents are set with actions such as the sustainable weeks Sustainability concepts are being developed for major events such as the EURO 2008 European Football Championship Nature, National Parks and Species The National Parks are key environmental and nature conservation projects. National Park Regions are to be expanded into model regions for soft tourism. Each student should have visited a national park at least once; Additional impulses for research For the ecologically sound and coordinated use of the forest in the leisure sector, contractual arrangements of the property owners with interested parties, municipalities, tourism etc. to develop. In this context, the Austrian Federal Forest AG has a special responsibility in dealing responsibly with nature and access to nature in the sense of the free movement of the forest for recreational purposes as a whole. The legal obligation of ÖBf AG to maintain substances aims at the continuous improvement of the asset in the sense of a sustainable orientation of the Austrian forestry industry. This will also ensure that Austrian land and land are managed responsibly. Protective cabin offensive for clean Alps Gentle tourism in Austria's mountain regions continues to be supported by its own programme for the conservation and ecologicalisation of shelters. Active anti-atomic policy The Austrian Federal Government maintains its conviction that nuclear energy does not constitute a sustainable form of energy supply. Special attention will be paid to the security issue. The creation of high EU safety standards for nuclear installations is also an essential objective of Austrian nuclear policy. Agreed closure obligations of particularly problematic installations must be strictly observed and further closure agreements with EU financial assistance should be sought. Capacity increases of existing installations should not be promoted as much as the construction of new nuclear installations. In all cases of cross-border power plant projects, Austria will continue to take advantage of all possibilities to protect Austrian safety needs under EU law and the ESPOO Convention. Within the framework of the budgetary circumstances, the Austrian early warning system and risk research will be further expanded. At the Temelín nuclear power plant, the zero variant continues to be maintained and the safety dialogue continues intensively. As part of the milking process, the Federal Government is pursuing the objective of implementing the security measures agreed in Annex 1. The Federal Government will continue its efforts to reform the Euratom Treaty. The current Euratom Treaty also contains essential provisions which are important for protecting the population and the environment. The Austrian Federal Government will take general action against the construction of new nuclear power plants at EU level and will take action within the framework of the Community legislation on the strengthening and strengthening of the health safety provisions. The existing system for the treatment and storage of jetting material legally occurring in Austria, e.g. from medical care, X-rays and research must be technically and financially secured in the long term. Administration Management The aim is to introduce administrative benchmarks between the local authorities, in particular the streamlining of the EIA procedures through improved process management among EIA authorities, to strengthen the environmental Senate by attracting supportive members in the chambers, to expand the EIA procedure with its comprehensive procedural and decision-making focus on other areas. Education Education policy is a policy of opportunity. Children and young people must therefore be at the heart of all future-oriented measures and be optimally encouraged according to their personal abilities, interests and inclinations. Education, science and research make a decisive contribution in the process of transformation from the industrial society to the knowledge society. High-quality education opportunities and the best possible care for children and young people require responsible autonomy at schools, modern structures in school administration, clear rules on learning and performance objectives and a meaningful evaluation culture. This requires best-trained pedagogists. In order to increase opportunities for young people, future-oriented education reforms are needed, which are also aimed at strengthening the motivation, participation and participation of all students, parents and teachers within the framework of the school partnership. We want to further increase the level of education and further increase the quality of education in Austria. The parents' freedom of choice for their children's education must be maintained. In order to further enhance the quality of education in Austria and ensure sustainable, public expenditure on education should be increased overall. At European and international level, we want to offer young people the best opportunities and actively participate in the development of the European knowledge area in the context of education clusters and exchange programmes, such as cross-border school projects and vocational training projects. Europe and the European Union are to be brought closer to young people. In view of the increasing importance of lifelong learning, networking and permeability between education and training should be further strengthened and the recognition of informally acquired skills increased. The promotion of continuing training, competent advice and quality assurance of continuing training offers are of high importance. Special attention should be paid to those with a low level of qualification in adult education. 1. Class students maximum 25 Objective: Reduce the number of students in classes to 25 to increase the quality of education and the amount of education Implementation: The number 25 is a reference value. Division and opening figures need to be redefined and minority education taken into account. The school has the opportunity to decide on its own class organisation. The implementation of this class school(s)-highest number begins to rise in the first level of each type of school 2. Kindergarten and preschool Objective: View kindergarten as an educational institution, prepare children for the requirements of folk school and improve their transition to school Implementation: Development of a national education plan for kindergartens with special early language support Improving the transition between kindergarten and folk school Setting up an expert group to draw up proposals for pre-school education to cover all 5-year-olds 3rd. Day care Objective: Needed expansion of day-to-day forms of schooling and care facilities Implementation: The already mandatory demand survey, as provided for in the School Organisation Act, needs to be carried out class, school level and cross-school organisations of care services to facilitate group education A catalogue of quality criteria (e.g. Spatial and human resources) 4. Integration Objective: Children with special educational needs and children with non-German mother tongue are best integrated into the school system Implementation: Intensification of support measures to enable all children to master the language of education Review of the criteria for identifying the need for special education Adjustment of resource use in the field of special educational support ==References====External links== Achievement of school level Integration as an important part of teacher education and training 5. Education guarantee until the 18th century. Year of life Objective: Reducing the proportion of young people without vocational training or training and ensuring youth employment through the possibility of attending a secondary school, a training programme or obtaining a apprenticeship Implementation: Further expansion of courses in the field of vocational secondary and higher schools Enlargement of inclusive vocational training Preparation of vocational training courses for trainees, involving vocational schools Promotion of enterprises offering training places Strengthened school provision to prepare for professional maturity test Expanding the over-company teaching workshops, which are to be supplemented by appropriate school courses by target groups Improving professional information and economic integration Creating a coaching model for young people with difficulties in Vocational entry into service 6. Reduce class repetitions and repeat tests Objective: Careful handling of the lifetime of our children and young people for a successful school career, but maintaining the idea of performance Implementation: Repeating school levels should be avoided as far as possible by educational and organisational measures Performance-oriented support in the school system (demanding strong, promoting weak) Development of education advice, particularly at the areas of education and training Correct implementation of the early warning system, which is enshrined in the School Organisation Act 7. Quality assurance at schools Objective: Ensuring and reviewing the quality of education and training Implementation: Completion of education standards Rapid implementation of education standards also on a legal basis Setting up an education monitoring, allowing feedback on teaching and quality of education Setting standards for statutory audits (Matura) in the main areas Permanent updating of curriculum Increase the promotion of schools with alternative education (non-confessional private schools) taking into account quality assurance 8. Individual support Objective: Ensuring and developing basic skills as well as creating motivation, interest and competences for lifelong learning Implementation: Intensification of early language promotion and language promotion courses in folk school Language promotion courses also at primary schools Ensuring performance differentiation and needs-based support lessons Evaluation of resources made available for individual funding Further expansion of gift promotion Extension of pupils' aid Promote boys, strengthen girls 9. School of 10 to 15 years in the field of compulsory education Objective: Further improvement of the educational opportunities of pupils and differentiated access to the skills and needs of the individual child Implementation : Evaluation of existing school models such as the main school in rural areas as well as of school experiments such as cooperative middle school, education clusters and school associations, review of the applicability in the various regions Strengthening the overall education approach with differentiated offers, taking into account the special abilities of pupils Development and implementation of new models of performance differentiation for secondary education to improve the individual promotion of different talents To set up an expert commission consisting of national and international educational experts to develop strategies and models for the entire school organisation, e.g. Price models in the AHS upper level 10. Strengthening school partnership Objective: Education and education must be understood as a common task Implementation: Creation of behavioural agreements at each school Preparation of models for pedagogical intervention Creating support from the social field Strengthening and strengthening co-determination 11th@item: inlistbox Modernisation of school administration and school management Objective: Reorganisation of the school administration Implementation: Creation of education directorates Implementation of the ‘one-stop shop principle’ in the field of education by abolishing double-tracks Modern and efficient school supervision Creation of the possibility of reorganisation of schools Confession to the decentralised school system also in rural areas Space Simplification of reimbursement of national teacher costs to the individual Länder Introduction of middle school management Simplification in the implementation of school development projects accompanied by research (e.g. Price system at upper level) School autonomy should be further expanded Examination of the abolition of school-based teachers' posts 12. Further development of educational universities Objective: Training, continuing and continuing training of teachers at the highest possible professional level Implementation: Implementation of the Higher Education Act 2005 establishing the new educational universities and further development by opening up further educational professions and strengthening autonomy Ensuring the permeability and cooperation between teaching courses at the educational universities and universities Development of models for common training modules (e.g. in the field of didactics, school management) Priority in the field of education and training in the field of current pedagogical challenges 13. EU level Objective: Best development opportunities for Austria's young people in the united Europe Implementation: Participation in the new LLL programme, specifically in the exchange programmes Expansion of bilingual education Increased student exchange in vocational training Focus on the language of neighbouring countries The use of “Native Speakers” should be facilitated 14. International education clusters Objective: Further strengthening international educational cooperation Implementation: Continued Teacher Training Programme in New York as well as International Schools in Budapest, Prague, Istanbul and Guatemala Construction of the new Austrian school in Shkodra Development of regional cooperation in particular with the countries of south-eastern Europe EDUCATIONAL TRAINING 1. Improvement of educational careers Objective: Strengthening education as an important instrument of qualification and employability Implementation: Reduction of the duration of continuous employment as a requirement for entitlement from 3 years to 1 year Increase in the amount of continuing training Ensuring more flexible forms on the basis of a previous qualified consultation 2. New financing models and basic structure for adult education Objective: Creating new incentive models and facilitating access to continuing training Implementation: Optimal participation in projects of the European Union by ensuring national co-financing Setting up an expert group to develop new funding models, taking into account existing instruments and concepts [[Education grants, educational accounts, educational savings, educational loans, educational vouchers, qualification grants, etc.]] Strengthened coordination of federal and federal funding models Multiannual contracts to ensure the basic structure of recognised EB bodies Permanent regulation of the social and employment status of secondary workers and teachers of adult education 3rd. Development of education advice Objective: Improving adult education advice Implementation: Development of existing provider independent advisory services Professionalisation of vocational and educational advice Use of up-to-date consulting instruments (e.g. Skills balance, qualification check) 4. Alphabetisation measures Objective: Further reduction in the proportion of people with lack of basic qualifications (writing, reading, computing, computerization) Implementation: Special promotion of basic qualifications 5. Quality assurance in adult education Objective: Ensuring the quality of adult education Implementation: Development of qualification measures for primary, secondary and voluntary employees Creation of quality standards (didactic, organisational, legal) and certification systems 6. Promoting educational qualifications Objective: Higher qualification for low-qualified adolescents and adults Implementation: Strengthened school provision to prepare for professional maturity test Further strengthening the funding for the recovery of educational qualifications in line with budgetary possibilities Improved cooperation between schools, EB institutions and AMS Developing systems for the recognition of non-formally acquired skills and knowledge Assessment of the AHS for professionals and testing of models best suited to the target group 7. Federal Further Education Pass Objective: Better documentation of knowledge and skills acquired in adulthood and thus increase opportunities in the labour market Implementation: The introduction of a country-wide educational passport, which documents the individual training measures. Science Science and research are the basis for the creation of more jobs, for the preservation of our competitiveness, for economic growth and thus ultimately for social security. This requires modern, autonomous universities and advanced research institutions. The Federal Government is committed to further improving the framework conditions for students and further expanding the funding of studies. The promotion of young scientists and the promotion of women in the field of science should be given greater attention and the overall academic ratio should be further increased. The international networking of Austrian scientific institutions will be of even higher importance in the future. Therefore, appropriate cooperation needs to be deepened and expanded. 1. Funding of students The existing system of study contributions is amended as follows: An interministerial working group will examine the study aid system with a view to its social security and will make proposals for improvement. The already existing credit model will be expanded and announced in the public with the aim of making it more accessible to a larger group of students. In addition, the possibility of certain non-profit non-refundable activities to the extent of 60 hours in the semester will result in a refunding of the study contributions in the future. In this context, special attention will be paid to training and support services in the field of education and activities in the context of new social challenges (hospice movement, etc.) I thought so. No changes are made to the technical colleges. 2. Measures to reduce drop-outs Objective: Reduction in the number of drop-outs and further increase in the academic rate Implementation: Development of student advice at schools and universities Coaching and mentoring in the study entry phase New offers for working students (e.g. E-learning, part-time studies) Expansion of support services for students with children Extensive survey on the causes of drop-outs 3rd. Further improvement of study conditions Objective: Ensuring adequate scientific support so that any study can be completed without delay, as well as further investments in a modern learning environment. Implementation: Significant improvement of care relationships (teachers/students) Launch of the "Prior Professorships III" programme – Supplementarys specifically for teaching and thus for better care Further expansion of the Bologna process, especially for teaching studies Fast implementation of General Rehabilitation and University Building Planning (Hochschulraumbewerbung) Increase the efficiency of the student attorneyship 4. Women in Science Objective: Further increase in the proportion of women in the scientific field,in particular in leading positions Implementation: Women in Science Initiative: Further development of the special support programmes according to international best-practice models Development of programmes to improve the compatibility of childcare and scientific careers Targeted promotion of young scientists in science and technology 5. Further development of the University Law 2002 Objective: Strengthening the autonomy and international competitiveness of Austrian universities Implementation: Further development of the University Law 2002 with the focus on coordination of the responsibilities of the institutions, co-determination (e.g. Works councils in the University Council), information rights, internal will education. Strengthening modern management and decision-making structures to ensure further profile formation and international competitiveness of universities All scientists employed on careers should form a group (“Kurie”) 6. Promotion of young scientists Objective: Strengthening opportunities for young scientists and comprehensive promotion of gift reserves Implementation: Further development of university career models ('tenure track') Simplification of habilitation and appeal procedures at universities Rising the research rate to 3% of GDP by 2010 Excellence programmes for the Austrian scientific research at ISTA and at the universities Rehabilitation of research grants with better coordination Targeted offers to Austrian scientists abroad Pension scheme The appointment requirements must be made in accordance with the EU-conform service law of the Federal Government according to the academic degrees of the Bologna process. 7. Continued high-school offensive Objective: Strengthening technical universities as an important complement to the university offer Implementation: Extending the range of higher education courses by additional places of study according to the budgetary possibilities Strengthening research support Increase the proportion of women, especially in the technical fields of study 8. Evaluation of universities by European standards Objective: Increase the quality of university offers and improve evaluation tools Implementation: Realignment of the Austrian Quality Assurance Agency AQA Further development of the Accreditation Council and Accreditation Act Quality assurance in the case of training courses (courses) 9. Increased permeability in the tertiary sector Objective: Recognization of acquired knowledge between higher schools, colleges, universities and educational universities Implementation: Ensuring accountability in case of exchange of study places within Austria Review of the 2002 IP with a view to ensuring accountability Clearing body in case of disputes in recognition of foreign study programmes Needs and acceptance analysis of Bachelor's degree in special fields 10. Non-university research Objective: Further increase in efficiency and international competitiveness Implementation: Development of modern structures at the Academy of Sciences Evaluation of research institutes of the ÖAW Review of the breakdown of large research institutions Increase in FWF funds 11th@item: inlistbox National and international clusters Objective: Sustainable networking of Austrian scientific and research institutions with international partner institutions Implementation: Continued the ASEA Union and EURASIA-PACIFIC network Focus on Western Balkans - further expansion of CEEPUS Strengthen scientific cooperation in the Danube region by creating an “intelligent corridor” Quick expansion of the Institute of Science and Technology (ISTA) inKlosterneuburg to an excellence center of international importance Application of Austria for the administrative seat of the European Institute of Technology (EIT) Intensification of international scholarship programmes (e.g. Ernst-Mach-Stipendium) Full support for the implementation of the International Agreement with demin Lahore/Pakistan will be established a technical university according to Austrian model. This project is supported by know-how and staff from Austria. Social challenges and health Social affairs Care and care for old people Due to demographic developments in Austria, care and care for older people is becoming increasingly important. Due to the timely and forward-looking construction of a powerful and intelligently differentiated supply landscape, human conditions for a decent ageing are to be ensured and the maximum freedom of choice for those affected and family members created. In addition to providing adequate infrastructure for needs, the promotion of the labour market in this area as a modern professional sector with opportunities for the future as well as the strengthening and support of caregivers and volunteers is also important. Improvement of care provision An important factor is the timely recognition of care needs and good medical and nursing care. Even in the case of pre-existing care Need for measures of rehabilitation and secondary prevention is useful. In addition to coordinating information and prevention measures through a federal platform, e.g. the Healthy Austria Fund, and the extension of the offer to easily available and understandable information on the subject, is to be used in the process for the recognition of the federal or regional authorities. National care benefits are provided for compulsory care advice. Optimal infrastructure according to the wishes of the interested parties Each care or care provider shall: Caregivers should be able to receive the best possible form of care according to their expectations. Care in their own four walls should be as possible as care in the home. The numerous possibilities of self- and family care, mobile home care, round-the-clock care at home and well-kept housing forms, as well as part-stationary and stationary offers in the acute, transitional and long-term areas should be available as widely as possible. Further development of appropriate care and care models according to the needs of those concerned and family members, e.g. for up to 24h care or specific age diseases such as dementia or Alzheimer's Development of mobile services and close-to-life care facilities and forms of housing Promotion of accessible and/or cross-generational housing Development of meeting places and social and/or Social-medical programmes for seniors (low levels of prevention, visiting and accompanying services, day centres, senior clubs in the municipalities) Neighbourhood centres for the coordination and resolution of various social concerns and problems Further expansion of the close-to-life hospice and palliative supply in stationary, substationary and mobile services Create a legal basis for the round-the-clock care at home: Labour law, social law and professional law are to be adapted to the specificities of self-employed and self-employed employment for care services in the private household of a care benefit worker. Public support takes account of the extent of care, the need for care and the social situation. Durable care and care In the interests of the best possible satisfaction of those concerned, better networking of all stakeholders in the health, care and care sectors as well as coordination of funding flows in the health, social and care sectors with a view to providing adequate and manageable integrated care. A working group of representatives of the federal, state and local authorities will be set up to redefine the care, which will ensure the best care and care according to the principles previously described. In the course of 2007, as far as possible until summer, this working group will have to draw up a model based on the following principles and in any case subject to a referendum: For the care at home, a type of own employment must be developed as far as possible on the basis of self-employment. Additional costs must be paid in solidarity through contributions from potential beneficiaries. In this legislative period, the Federal Government's care allowance must be selectively evaluated by the level of care; the classification of the care levels must be checked. Temporary partial or complete takeover also of staff contributions from caregivers in the case of voluntary pension insurance from the care level 4 Improved interface management through cross-border case/care management Revision of Article 15a of the Agreement with the countries with a view to harmonising the basis of planning, the rules on payments and the participation in private assets, in particular of non-domestic properties and of the rules on descendants Support for volunteers and caregivers The achievements of volunteers and caring families deserve high recognition and are therefore intended to be further promoted. This is to be done not only by increasing the means of advice and training in this area, but also by providing specific assistance in support work. Development of advice and assistance on site, support at home through mobile services, holidays of care, replacement care workers and Readyness services Creation of incentive programmes, in particular for seniors, to engage in care Examination of other possibilities of family hospice in the field of care in coordination with the social partners Integration of civil society organisations (NPOs) in the management of employment relations Forcing a modern professional sector with prospects for the future In order to meet the growing needs of workers in the care and care sector, further modernisation of education in the health, care and social sectors is needed in the sense of an attractive and permeable system and the increased response to the needs of re-enters. Creation of a uniform basis of competence for health and social professions and the introduction of the ‘home aid’ vocational training throughout the country Attractive training through the development of module systems, which facilitates the permeability of the entire health and care sector and opens up further areas for care assistance To examine the liberalisation of occupational training schemes for the up-to-date health and health care service while at the same time Standardisation of structural quality criteria Development of part-time offers and re-entry programmes Measures to safeguard employees during continuing training/higher qualification, in particular those who have not previously been eligible for support Creation of a Chair for Care Sciences Pensions Austria has one of the best pension systems in the world. Building on the 3-pillar model and the 2003 and 2004 pension reforms, adjustments are being made in the following areas. This is done in accordance with the important principle that the loads between older and young generations must be fairly distributed. Only in this way can the generation contract continue to be maintained. Pension calculation A working group consisting of social partners, government representatives and other experts will consider the provisions currently in force on pension schemes or pension schemes. -to carry out an evaluation and to make proposals for amendments with a view to improving transparency and simplification. This provided that no substantial intervention into existing pension law (both contribution and benefit rights) is made. Retirement An extension of the discount-free pension scheme by 55/60 under the long-term insurance scheme by 2010 (so-called ‘hackler scheme’) is intended to improve transitional law for those groups of persons who have made long contributions to the scheme. Furthermore, the aim is not to make any reductions in the outflow rule for this group by the year 2010. The current ‘double deductions’ in the case of the use of a corridor pension in transitional law are not in the current form of actuarial principles. It is therefore intended to be mitigated (in the result half of the discount in the old law). Heavy-worker's pension It is examined whether the life expectancy of some heavy workers groups is significantly lower than that of other workers. In the case of evidence of a significant difference, heavy-worker pensions should be redesigned in such a way as to allow for a reduction-free pension if life expectancy is involved. Child training periods (for pension account) The consideration of child rearing periods is to be changed in such a way as to take the current additive crediting of the credits on the pension account from a value-secured contribution basis (start-up value 1.350.- €). Invalidity pensions A working group consisting of social partners, government representatives and other experts is expected to draw up proposals for a reorganisation of invalidity pension law by 1.1.2008. Several occupational groups are treated differently when granting pensions for reduced employment (in turn invalidity pensions). Harmonization should also be sought in this area. For older people who are disadvantaged because of their reduced employment in the labour market but who do not yet meet the requirements for a disability pension, it is necessary to consider whether an improvement can be achieved. Sustainability factor The negotiators agree that the existing sustainability factor will be amended towards an automatic pension scheme with effect from 2010. Changes in life expectancy automatically lead to activation of the sustainability factor. Harmonization The negotiators agree that in the next legislative period, it is intended to influence the federal states and municipalities to promote the harmonisation of the different pension systems. The aim is to create a uniform pension right for all pensioners based on the Federal Pension Act (General Pension Act and Additional Schemes). Combating poverty Further reforms in the Austrian social security system are necessary for many reasons. The extension of life expectancy and the reduction of the number of children, the increase in so-called "precious" employment conditions, the increased competitive pressure on all markets, the increased integration of Austria into the world economy and membership in the EU lead to new challenges. One of the challenges, however, is the poverty that exists in Austria. In a rich country such as Austria, the substantial reduction of poverty – provided for the corresponding political will – represents a soluble task. The aim is to further strengthen the fight against poverty in order to reduce the number of people at risk of poverty and the acutely poor. The instrument for this should be the introduction of a needs-oriented minimum guarantee. This is accompanied by a minimum wage (on the basis of a general collective contract) of EUR 1,000.-. The amount of the minimum guarantee in 2007 is Euro 726,- gross (14 times). The introduction of demand-oriented minimum security takes place in several steps. The first step was to increase the compensatory allowance rate to Euro 726,- in 2007. An agreement will then be reached between the Federal Government and the countries for a minimum social security scheme for the harmonization and fixation of the state's social assistance to the level of € 726,- (possibly in stages). There is a need for separate negotiations with the countries. In order to increase the transparency of social services data, it is necessary that the Federal Government and countries significantly improve their data exchange. The compensatory allowance rate shall be the reference value of the risk to poverty in Austria. Subject to the implementation of a requirement-oriented minimum guarantee in the federal states, the development of minimum-security elements in unemployment insurance law is carried out at the same time: The 60 % net replacement rate system for single persons under the compensatory allowance rate is fully represented in the emergency aid, i.e. emergency aid is assessed at 95% of the net replacement rate raised to up to 60%. In the case of persons with family supplements, the net replacement rate increased to up to 80% will also be used as a basis for calculating the emergency aid. The accounting rules on partner income in the event of emergency aid are amended in such a way as not to lead to a household income under the family allowance rate (including child supplements). The requirement for the award of the service is at least the willingness to work in all those who are able to work. The rules on visibility are made fairer and more practical. Long-term unemployed are involved in non-profit labour projects and are committed to continuing training. This ensures that the need-oriented minimum guarantee is not an unemployed basic income. The AMS will provide support for the workable social assistance providers for reintegration into the labour market with the aim of achieving a one-stop shop with a view to disbursing the services from the need-oriented minimum guarantee. The needs and assets audit shall be carried out by the social assistance bodies. Central Element of the need test is also the use of one's own assets - for: If you own assets, you must use them before you have the right to aid from the general public. There is an appropriate exploitation of assets for social assistance workers, where the (self-inhabited) residence is assessed with a fictitious rent and a car necessary for professional training is not used. Maintenance entitlements shall be based on those values which normally flow to the dependant after actions and executions. “Social tourism” is avoided by appropriate link to the right to permanent residence. Health The Federal Government is committed to comprehensive medical care for all people regardless of age and income. The aim is a long life expectancy in good health, maximum patient satisfaction and comprehensive protection against the financial risk of a disease. The principle of solidarity, equal and low-quality access to services and high quality and efficiency in the provision of services shall apply. In order to ensure access to medical progress for all groups of the population, it is necessary for all decision-makers to take a particularly careful approach to existing resources. The focus of the Federal Government's health policy is on patients' needs. Gender-medicine is taken into account as a continuous principle at all levels of health care. 1. Prevention, health promotion and public health An extended prevention and health promotion at the content, structural and financial level is intended to reach people in their living environments, such as work, kindergarten, school or community. The following measures are therefore adopted: A Health Promotion Act as 4. Pillar prevention and health promotion; based on agreed targets in relation to civil disease, the promotion of healthy living environment and lifestyles (movement, nutrition, addiction and risk of accident). (ii) the creation of a network of national and regional authorities and the creation of local centres of competence; (iii) the setting-up of local and regional authorities; and (iii) the creation of local and regional centres of competence; (iii) the creation of local and regional authorities; and (iii) the creation of regional and local authorities; and (iii) the Use of existing structures (e.g. Hospitals, municipalities and social insurance). Extensive funding for prevention and health promotion is reviewed in accordance with the respective competence. Epidemiologically sound prevention and health reporting, research and evaluation. Anchoring a legally extended non-smoking in-house protection (especially through strict regulations also in locals through spatially separated smoking zones). National addiction and alcohol strategy, especially for young people. Further development of public health services and novelties of the Epidemic Act and clear rules in disaster prevention. Targeted use of vaccination programs (especially in children and against epidemic diseases). Development of systematic screening programs (brass cancer, colon cancer and prostate). 2. Development of integrated supply Based on the patient's needs, health processes must be designed in such a way as to ensure that prevention, diagnosis, treatment, rehabilitation and care are provided in the right order, from the right place, in appropriate time and with guaranteed quality and maximum results. In principle: Integrated care is agreed as a health policy target for the cooperation partners Federal Government, countries, social security and all service providers. The overall planning of a patient-oriented service offer covers all supply areas. Quality and cost-effectiveness of the individual sectors are based on the effectiveness and efficiency of the overall system. The funding follows the principle of ‘money follows performance’. In order to maximise accessibility and treatment results, the following initiatives shall be taken: The future Art. 15a Agreement on the "financing of Austrian health care" will push forward the overcoming of existing restrictions on integrated care. Upgrade of the role of general physicians and other health professionals. Building outpatient health centres, supplemented by legally safe cooperation models with hospitals, which offer supply-oriented supply packages of time, quality and performance according to performance contracts. This is intended to contribute to the improvement of medical care in rural areas. Evaluation of existing accounting models (LKF and SV rates) and target-oriented fees in both sectors. Comparable documentation of the services of hospitals, ambulances, established doctors for creating cost transparency. bureaucracy reduction through simple documentation rules. Cross-sectoral use of medical technology. Quality-secured and multidisciplinary guidelines for chronic diseases, including: in diabetes, stroke, cancer, coronary heart disease, COPD and dementia). Optimized division of work between hospitals in central and basic care; the construction of trans-regional supply structures in the Top medicine. Construction of pre- and post-care forms as alternatives to hospital stay. Cross-cutting and graduated palliative and hospice care, financed according to their respective responsibilities. Development of outpatient rehabilitation, in the stationary area of child rehabilitation, neurology, cardiology and cancer patients. Support for integrated forms of care through extended applications of the e-card and the “Electronic Health Act” while respecting patient rights and data protection. The financing of the ELGA shall be ensured. Optimize reception and discharge management The transfer of the Hanuschkrankenhaus to the Hospitals Association and the classification of the accident hospitals to the Landesfonds as well as the associated financial consequences must be reviewed prior to the start of the deliberations under Art.15a Agreement. 3rd. Control of health care In order to achieve common health policy objectives, a coordinated governance model between the federal government, countries and social health insurance is essential. Within the framework of the Federal Health Commission (BGK), the financial partners draw up a joint management agreement. Pre-work for this purpose flows into the species. 15a agreement on the financing of health care. Initial implementation measures are already being put in place during this legislative period. In order to achieve the long-term objective of financing from a single source, a federal grouping of all KV contributions and dedicated taxes takes place in the medium term. Decisions on the need-oriented and transparent use of the available means for the supply sectors shall be taken by the financial partners in: Agreed. Germany's cross-border supply levels can be financed directly. The distribution of funds also takes into account the risk structure of the population to be supplied. The criteria for this are prepared for Art.15a agreement, e.g. Age, gender, education, income differences, morbidity, employment reduction, poverty, unemployment, single people, location-related health costs). Decisions on the patient and demand-oriented use of resources shall be taken by the financial partners in the federal states. A uniform national service law is being implemented for the local health telephone. The local health telephone is based on decentralized organization. structures a common health insurance division in the main association. In this context, his tasks and his organisation are redesigned. In the KV division, the representatives of the local health care telephone - in agreement with the special insurance companies - enter into binding agreements at national level (common objectives, coordination of service law, provision of cures and remedies, guidelines for the award of the providers). This will strengthen the possibility of regional self-governments at the federal level. Questions of partnership decision-making structures must be clarified by employers' and employees' representatives in consensus. The project of the merger of the SV-of the industrial economy and the SV-of farmers into a social security fund of the self-employed shall be concluded in agreement with both institutions. 4. Financing of health care The shortage of the local health telephone and the financing problems of the countries and municipalities as hospitalists can be a priority on the utilization of the Efficiency potentials and, on the other hand, additional public funding for health care. An increase in self retention is not sought. The potential for efficiency throughout health care shall be determined on a systematic basis and in accordance with the applicable manner. 15a agreement with 300 million. € by 2008 and a further €100 million. € by 2010. The starting points for this are in particular fewer assignments and resumptions and optimizations of daily clinical treatments in hospitals, efficient use of medical products and medications, new forms of organization among doctors, coordinated and stimulating funding systems, savings in the non-medical field of hospitals (e.g. Models of joint purchase or work organisation), cost-effectiveness when billing for host patients. Sustainable security of the liquidity of the local health telephone requires comprehensive measures. Initial approaches to this are: ensuring the full submission of the SV contributions registration of social security before start of work The following measures shall be taken to prevent a deficit in statutory health insurance as a whole: Half of the amount required is due to proposals from the social partners through savings and efficiency gains (e.g. In the case of the other half, all health insurance contributions shall be increased by 0.15%, with the division of employees and service providers in line with the agreement of the social partners, which shall also cover the issues of liquidity provision and the creation of a cost-neutral self-sufficiency within the occupational SVA. Social assistance providers are included in health insurance by means of a standard basis to be negotiated. 5. Sustained In view of the fact that the sum of existing reserves for chronic and multiple diseases may lead to a financial burden that results in non-use of medically necessary benefits, the following measures shall be taken: ==References== In January 2008, a ceiling is set for the recipe fee of 2% of the income administered via the e-card. .. Lower prescription fee for the prescription of generics and for original preparations at the price level of the generic. incentives for participation in home health and precautionary programmes. 6. Medicines A comprehensive approach to reducing the cost of medicinal products (admission and inclusion in the refund code (ECO), prescription and delivery, trading margins). Support a European perspective in the authorisation and evaluation of the therapeutic and health-economic benefits of medicinal products. On the basis of an evaluation of the system of the “Boxes” in the ECO, further development is being carried out, in particular with regard to innovative products. Evidence-based recognition of homeopathic products for the ECO. The chief medical approvals are to be directed towards uniform rules and accompanying quality assurance. The e-medication database (medicine safety belt) and the e-receptacle are introduced for prescribed and dispensing bodies. Transparency in application monitoring studies is produced. Promote the use of generics, in particular through increased price competition between first-party providers and generics. Joint Committees for Medicinal Products for Hospitals and Health Insurance are to draw up guidelines for the evaluation and selection of medicinal products. 7. Training of doctors, health, care and social professions The course of training (studium and abduction) of specialists takes place via a common one-year basic training. The training as a specialist in general medicine is implemented with compressed training content. General medicine is being expanded in university. Training facilities must meet qualitative requirements, teaching practices must be included in the course of training. The training and activity profile of the gymnasticians is revised taking into account the structural changes in the health care sector. Harmonisation of the educational paths of health, care and social professions is intended to produce permeability to related occupations. The link between care training and regular schooling is improved. Modular training is designed to enable permeability, flexibility and multi-qualifications in the sense of lifelong learning. In training, comparability must be established at European level. The start of the conversion of the MTD-Academies into high-school courses is to be completed by 2010. The professional image of the medical technical specialist is to be reviewed. All health professions are recorded and registered. 8. Quality assurance in health care Quality assurance shall include: Guidelines for Process and Result Quality (e.g. Waiting times, investigation duration, re-operation rates, resumptions). Patients-oriented treatment - including complementary medicine (e.g. Homeopathy, TCM etc.) and psychotherapy - is supported by a transparent system of quality assurance. This also serves to expand the Federal Institute for Quality in Health. ==References====External links== Research Framework Programme to promote innovation in health. Improved working conditions and flexible forms of working time design for workers to avoid overload of time. Evaluation of existing care and development of quality-secured psychotherapy throughout the country. 9. Patients' rights The strengthening of patient rights is carried out by: Patients' attorneys are equally strengthened in all federal states. Patients are better protected in the event of treatment errors and claims for damages; in the case of medical devices errors, the evidence position is regulated in favour of patients and professional liability is enshrined in treatment errors. Adjustment of the medical reservation and the rights of individual health and care professions. 10. Consumer health protection Globalisation and new technologies present new challenges for consumer protection. In addition to strengthening information rights, research funding for risk research should therefore also be targeted. Illegal distribution channels and counterfeit products (e.g. Medicines) should be closely monitored in the cooperation of competent authorities and the collection of existing control systems. The integration of the various control systems into a separate administrative structure, as well as a multi-annual integrated control plan and the review of corresponding national structures will create synergies and increase the results of official monitoring. Re-structured reporting and reporting obligations as well as quality-secured data should increase the efficiency of official controls, especially along the food chain and thus overall food safety. The Agency for Health and Food Safety should further develop and ensure funding, taking into account national and international experience and application of European food rules. Laws on quality, origin identification and regional and biological production provide secure information and transparency, as well as protection against deceptions and competition infringements. The basic reform of animal health rights and the modernisation of the Epidemic Law will further enhance protection against communicable diseases and ensure reporting and reporting requirements. The commitment to the freedom of genetic engineering in food and domestic feed is maintained. The freedom of choice of consumers is ensured by appropriate labelling and controls. This position is represented by Austria at EU level. People with disabilities Disposal of barriers in laws and heads! In order to further develop equality policy, the following measures will be taken: set: Every two years a mandatory report to Parliament and studies on the situation of people with disabilities Monitoring, evaluation and further development of the right of equal treatment and the resulting federal laws, in particular by: evaluation of the effectiveness of implementation (absence/reduction of barriers; conciliation procedures, court proceedings; Design and implementation of the stage plans, association action) Fast implementation of a type 15a B-VG agreement for the establishment of harmonised – barrier-free construction regulations, as well as the introduction of criteria of adaptable residential construction in the award of housing promotions. Advisory services for the production of structural accessibility Evaluation and further development of the defendant's office Planning, promoting and financing cross-border/ cross-border action programmes for the implementation of equality law. Promotion of training and implementation measures necessary due to the recognition of sign language promoting services offered by self-help and representation organisations to allow access to the content of equality law and thus to self-determined and self-responsible lifestyles. Strengthening the self-representation of people with learning disabilities for better participation in homes, housing groups (-units) and workshops Continue the elimination of discriminatory provisions in the legislation on materials (e.g. Notarial Act) For example, federal unit benefits (e.g.: § 29 b StVO ID card allows disabled people to park their own parking space and free parking in short parking areas and parking on a disabled parking lot. The countries have different proverbial practice, a uniform assessment of the recognition by the Federal Social Office in agreement with the respective country is necessary. Expansion of rehabilitation measures and ensuring mobile care at home for infected patients. Development of psychosocial counselling services prior to a prenatal diagnosis, notification of the results and after birth involving parents concerned, information on support offers. Development of family relief services for parents of disabled children and for parents with disabilities in particular through the use of a family helper. Extending existing advisory and diagnostic services to the best possible preparation of the family concerned but also the school system to meet the requirements of school integration. The costs of these measures shall be as far as possible by the competent body or body responsible. This is the case in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. However, an initial funding by the Social Ministry through the Federal Social Office should be carried out regardless of the operational competence if the measures to be implemented are of particular importance for the promotion of equality law. The labour market as a challenge The aim of labour market policy must be to avoid and eliminate disability-related disadvantages in the labour market. Continued employment plans, appropriate qualification and optimization of labour market instruments (e.g. personal assistance), further expansion of integration services for specific target groups, such as mentally ill, mentally disabled and learning disabled people Maintaining and safeguarding the employability of workers (especially older workers with disabilities or chronic diseases). Rightful and coordinated intervention measures (preventive pooling of all possible services); Evaluation and optimisation of the framework conditions for professional rehabilitation Equal opportunities and sustainable access to social security schemes. ‘disability flexicurity’ pilot attempt: 3 regionally distributed agencies or already existing bodies (by tender), which employ people with disabilities and quickly transfer and transfer to businesses. In the event of termination by the company, the person shall remain employed and socially insured in the Agency. Review of models to increase employment opportunities especially for young people with disabilities creation and development of incentive systems and support structures, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises, who employ and/or employ people with disabilities without obligation. Overfill the quota Optimization of business-related services to support the economy in the field of occupational integration, especially through regular services to reduce operational and administrative resources The Federal Social Office as the competence centre for people with disabilities (coordination of vocational integration for people with disabilities at the federal level, positioning as a central point of contact; Development and implementation of self-determination services) Special promotion of women with disabilities from the labour market through pre-accession measures to the first labour market Consideration of the possibilities of a progression solution for the compensatory tax for enterprises which are not required to set up an employment scheme with the involvement of the social partners AUDIT of enterprises for the employment of disabled people: promoting operational human resources and organisational development approaches that are appropriate; to support occupational integration structurally (e.g. Process support for the conclusion of a (voluntary) operating agreement Women's policies Equal opportunities and income justice, equality in the working world, science and research and the protection of women from violence remain central concerns. There should therefore be a women's and equality ministry in the future. As this topic – as well as the areas of family and youth – is a cross-sectional matter, a number of measures can be found in the other chapters of the Government Convention. 1. Compatibility of work and family Employment and family work shall no longer constitute a contradiction. The focus is on strengthening father participation and developing child care. See chapter ‘Family’ 2. Increased equality of opportunity in the labour market Expanding the AMS targets by qualitative objectives of employment integration Women's employment rate increased from 62% to 65% Strengthening the full employment rate of women Improving the employment opportunities of women through skills Development of qualified part-time work (e.g. in management positions) Increase in the proportion of women in the economy, science, politics and social partners Improving the human and financial resources of the equal treatment prosecution and ensuring its independence Incentives for compatibility-friendly management (Work Life Balance Management) 3rd. Further closure of income shears support for girls in the (atypical) career choice; Blumbonus focusing on girls and atypical teaching professions Elimination of stereotypes in work evaluation (discrimination-free work evaluation) Measures to improve evaluation so-called Women-specific jobs Women-specific career support Support for new entrants Continued anti-discrimination measures 4. Fighting Women's Poverty On the basis of a general collective agreement, a minimum wage of 1000,- EURO is to be implemented. Increased support for single parents (see chapter). Family) Action plan on the special promotion of migrants, in particular through German courses, training courses and targeted promotion of integration and participation; 5. Promotion of women in senior positions Continue and expand the women-specific networks and mentoring programmes Women's promotion plans in establishments Raising the proportion of women in top positions in science and research 6. Women's health and gender-specific medicine Extension of gender medicine in research, teaching and medical practice as well as in pharmacology (amendment of the pharmaceutical law) Continue international cooperation in the fields of women's health and gender-based medicine Increase in the proportion of women in management positions in medicine Establishment of women's health centres in all federal states 7. Women's promotion through advice Development of women's advisory services with a view to closing regional supply gaps Expansion of women-specific training opportunities in the AMS Re-entry aids such as: Orientation seminars and qualification measures during the karenz 8. Non-violence Further development of the law in the field of anti-violence and prevention, including anti-stalking law Adjustment of the financial resources of the intervention agencies against violence to increase the number of cases and bans Further awareness of police and justice Continued action against traditional violence Emergency care for persons affected by forced marriage 9. To combat trafficking in women and to increase support for those affected by trafficking in women Action plan against trafficking in human beings Expansion of emergency homes for women's trafficking victims Extension of the jur. Procedural assistance from criminal to civil law Health care for the victims of trafficking in women until the completion of residence status Family policy measures Family is respected and supported by us in all its various forms. Special attention should be paid to child welfare. 1. Compatibility of work and family The better compatibility of family and profession is the central challenge for the future. The child's allowance is flexibilised in the following way. In the future, in the sense of the free choice of parents, two variants are available: Either as before the total of 36 months (of which at least 6 months of the other partners) in the existing amount of € 436,- or a total of 18 months (of which at least 3 months of the other partners) of € 800,- monthly. The supplement for the family allowance for the 3rd season. Child is raised to € 35,-, for the 4th and every other child to € 50,-. Information for parents on labour law provisions when applying for child care benefits Deficit closure in the case of the care exemption 2. Further development of childcare Expansion of offers and quality assurance of child care Needed opening hours, even during holidays Further expansion of afternoon care to childcare facilities and schools Ensuring the quality of care through the education and further training of kindergarten teachers National Quality Assurance and Social Protection of Mothers and Further Development of Mobile Mothers 3rd. Financial security of families Adjustment of family benefits (according to financial possibilities) Evaluation of all family benefits, overview of family benefits as evidence for parents Reform of the maintenance advance in order to facilitate, improve and speed up access to it in the interests and for the benefit of the child Income-related weekly allowance also for free-time workers Review Funding FLAF The amount of earnings is increased to € 16,200,- per year. The income limit for the multiple child supplement is increased from € 45.000,- to € 55,000.-. 4. Strengthening family policy institutions, protecting against violence in the family Strengthening partner and parent education with a view to prevention Family advisory services and parent-child centres should be developed within the framework of budgetary possibilities and the population should be better informed about the existing offer of these institutions Strengthening institutions that accept victims of violence and (sexual) abuse Youth policies The young people in Austria are the most important potential for the future of our country. However, young people also need special protection and the best possible support in order to develop freely and optimally. 1.Children's rights and protection of young people Inclusion of children's rights as fundamental rights in accordance with the UN Convention on Children's Rights Community policy, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic 2. Protection against alcohol and drug abuse and violence Strengthening measures to prevent alcohol and drug abuse and nicotine and gambling Strengthening the prevention of violence and the protection of violence Restriction of the presentation of violence in the media to a youth-friendly level Continue and expand the Federal Office for Positive Predication of Computer Console Games (BUPP) to raise awareness of parents regarding violence in computer games Strengthening the protection of young people in the field of mobile services 3rd. Co-decision Reduction of voting age to 16 years Introduction of a Youth Impact Assessment for Political Projects (‘Youth Check’), Development of a Guide for Legislators Democracy education measures: Promotion of youth participation models such as: Youth Congresses, Parliaments) Equality of the Federal Youth Office with other social partners 4. Youth employment Training and/or training Employment guarantee for young people Promoting regional employment programmes Creation of further apprenticeships to close the apprenticeship gap Creation of new teaching professions (future technologies) creation of new training associations so that several firms can train an apprentice Modernising the protection provisions for apprentices Implementation of the concepts for the modularisation of teaching (wide basic training followed by specialization) Assessment of apprentice compensation Redistribution of the life-earth curve with the aim of increasing entry-level salaries Required professional orientation for all students from 7 to 7 years of age. School level taking particular account of the start-up of gender-specific stereotypes 5. Social and promotions Single favourable tariffs for young people in education (schoolers, apprentices, students) at an altitude corresponding to other beneficiary groups of the population Revival of the Federal Youth Promotion Act with the following priorities: Dotting according to the number of promoters, planning safety for the promoters and uniformisation of the funding criteria. Internal security Joint findings It is a central task of the state to protect the freedom and security of its citizens. Freedom is certainly not imaginable. The Austrians have a right to be protected from crime. Internal security Austria is one of the safest countries in the world. The Executive has implemented necessary structural measures. On-going evaluation is required in order to address future developments. The current organisational structure and the current system of federal police at federal, national and district level will continue to apply in their principles. For the police, it is necessary that their lives be regulated from education to career planning with a fair salary. Consideration should be given to the specific psychological and physical loads and the needs of professional protection in the field of executives. The staff level shall be adapted to the needs in a human resources development plan with a view to future retirements and the forthcoming Schengen extension and shall be determined over the legislative period. If necessary, an increase in the staffing level shall be assumed. In the next few years, the Schengen extension to our neighbouring countries is imminent. The transfer of the officials currently employed in the border service to a new system requires compensation measures such as the veiling and construction of priority services in the border area and on major transport routes that need to be developed rapidly. Where necessary, local job changes shall be carried out in a socially balanced manner for the staff concerned. Because of the enormous appeal of young women to the police profession and the growing proportion of women in the police service (dz. Approximately 10 %), new challenges arise in the field of personnel management. The aim is therefore to create a pool regionally in each federal state to have trained police officers available to officials in Karenz. In addition, provision should be made for persons with a migration background to be won under the existing appointment requirements for the police service. In order to ensure the planningability of the budget, reference increases, structural effects, overtime development must be taken into account in advance. An appropriate proportion of the general budget should be recognised for the BMI. This share of the budget should be guaranteed in the long term. Service time management shall be evaluated and flexibilised in order to ensure the exact use of additional services in the future. The service-time systems must be harmonised in this respect and harmonised in view. There must be no standstill in the modernisation of the executive. This is both in the infrastructure and in the technical equipment. The training of the staff of the Interior will continue to be professionalised and adapted to the Bologna process. The establishment of a Bachelor's course for the training of senior executives will lead to a logical and necessary further development by establishing a Master's degree course for senior executives of A1 and E1. It is also important to ensure that police work and the fight against organised crime and terrorism take into account the fundamental right to privacy and the fundamental right to security. In certain areas, such as the surveillance of places and crime hot spots, video surveillance already regulated by the Security Police Act has proved useful. In addition to these sensible legal regulations, suitable legal bases for video surveillance are created by private individuals in public areas, so that both the rule of law and the fundamental right to privacy and these materials can be used for the prosecution of crimes. This also applies to existing cooperations, e.g. with public transport companies such as the ÖBB or the Wiener Linien. With regard to the 2008 European Football Championship, the existing legal means must be used effectively and e.g. continue to expand the risk file in order to ensure safe sporting events. Prevention work promotes the subjective sense of security and is an essential part of the fight against crime; the comprehensive prevention measures must be coordinated: e.g. Transport education, child police, safe communities, extension of measures in the field of violence and drug prevention. The installation of safety systems is to be forced in the case of new and remodelling. The best-practice models such as Lower Austria and Vienna, for example, need to be promoted. Crisis and disaster management The cooperation of the relevant areas in the field of disaster protection management is important and is further forced. For volunteers in the use of disasters, the possibility of social security should be examined so as to ensure that they are not adversely affected by their assistance. The BMI is the central coordination and information centre for civil protection, civil protection, international disaster aid and special situations. For further professionalisation, the scope of the disaster fund will be extended and flexibilised in the field of prevention. Whether the state crisis and disaster protection management (SKKM) in a state agreement with the federal states (Art. 15a B-VG) should be examined in order to further institutionalize cooperation. In order to simplify the cross-border assistance provided in the event of disasters, the removal arrangements will be evaluated. International cooperation Austria continues international cooperation, particularly in the areas of combating organised crime, illegal migration and terrorism. Adequate means will be used to expand the possibilities of sharing security, asyl and migration related data, on the one hand, as set out in the EU Hager Programme by 2010, on the other hand, as provided for in the Prüm Treaty. As a single basic parameter, a single asylum statistics and an anti-terrorist file are to be introduced at European level. Cooperation with international agencies (EUROPOL, Frontex, Interpol, etc) should be continued. In order to meet the regional challenges in the field of internal security even more strongly, cooperation with our neighbouring countries will be further expanded within the Salzburg Group and the previous external strategy will continue on the Western Balkans. Additional tasks Unsolved and up-to-date is the problem of the blind people from the Second World War, especially in urban areas. The disclosure creates unreasonable problems for the property owners. There is a need to amend the relevant legal provisions. In recent years, the private security industry has increased sharply. However, it lacks its own federal law in which, in addition to compulsory training for such professionals and their employees, a professional image is defined which defines clear boundaries between state monopoly and tasks of security companies. A sexual criminal file is introduced to protect children and adolescents. Integration Initial findings 1) Europe is experiencing a fundamental demographic change with profound economic and social consequences. The content of the immigration and integration policy can only succeed on a broad basis, only a cooperation of the major political forces in cooperation with the social partners can achieve this. Then: Integration is a social task which requires efforts and efforts both from immigrants and from the host society. Immigration is a global challenge. Austria has responded in time with the 2005 Foreign Law Package and the jointly implemented principle of the priority of integration has already proved its worth in the current year. Primaryly, integration of aliens living in Austria is to be stopped; irregular immigration is to be stopped. The so-called agreed rules of the Foreign Rights Package must be maintained, evaluated and improved and developed in accordance with best practice models in Europe. The main thing here is that immigration must always be linked to integration work. Successful integration depends on basic knowledge of the German language. The integration agreement is maintained and results in consequences in the event of non-fulfilment. Integration must be based on the principle that a worthy person This and social peace in our country will take place in the long term. A certain income, local accommodation and health insurance are a command against poverty and a social necessity. (2) The principle is the clear separation between asylum law and immigration. There is a need for clear rules for immigration. Immigration must take place within the framework of the possibilities and taking into account the labour market. The following applies to asylum law: Fairer and faster protection in the face of persecution, consistent handling of criminal strangers. The central task remains to address illegal migration, the intensive fight against trafficking in human beings and tow crime. This requires a strategic overall control in asylum and xenophobia and an optimization of deportation practice. Furthermore, there is a link between development cooperation and cooperation between countries of origin, such as the issue of home travel documents or the conclusion of readmission agreements, indispensable. The use of Europol's and Interpol's information and data to combat illegal migration is as targeted as the increased use of biometry in this area. Integration policy must be considered as a cross-sectional matter in all policy areas. The content and financial responsibility for this lies both with the Federal Government and with the countries and communities; implementation must be carried out in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity on the ground. 3) Knowledge of our language is a necessary prerequisite for integration. In order to promote integration, it is necessary to provide for sustainable and target group-oriented offers in terms of language acquisition and branch support. Principles of integration In the field of immigration to take up employment, a needs- and industry-oriented adjustment should be made to the Austrian labour market in order to compensate for necessary temporary deficits on the labour market. Knowledge of our language and compliance with the Austrian legal and fundamental regulations are essential prerequisites for successful integration. The theme of integration is a social task and is to be considered as a cross-sectional matter covering all sectors and all areas of policy. Integration is clearly on the verge of re-entry. Specific support measures will be reinforced and started as early as possible. It is important that integration takes place at all levels from bottom to top. Community, associations, Access to kindergarten and school and educational facilities with special promotion of integration into the community life best-practice models are to be developed and developed The creation of integration platforms and integration concepts at the federal, national and local levels will be sought, as well as increased promotion of best practice models. Education, children, youth Integration begins in the kindergarten, therefore: special incentives for kindergarten visits for all children, the involvement of parents, so that language promotion in the kindergarten works. Sufficient teachers and support teachers to ensure integration in education Support for post-graduate qualifications (primary, technical, mature, etc.) For immigrants Language acquisition and establishment support Cross-sectional and target-group-specific literacy, German and orientation courses Measures to support establishment, initial information for new immigrants and mother tongues Preparation of basic information for immigrants to legal bodies Residence and citizenship – also mother tongue Particular attention should be paid to women's specific measures in support of establishment and integration, with a focus on language, health, etc.Use custom fonts; Ensure child care during guidance and qualification Specific support for young and young immigrants in language acquisition, school and training Parenting - "German courses for parents", parent information events, "parent school" and multilingual information materials on education system, school democracy, vocational orientation etc. Greater participation of parents with migration backgrounds in parent associations and thus in school democracy Asylum and tourism Asylum court with a two-way move in principle to speed up asylum procedures. ==References====External links== the individual acquisition of UBAS members according to high performance and quality criteria and the creation of effective quality assurance in accordance with the model of judicial administration. In order to further speed up the procedure, the asylum court shall, at the same time, have direct access to the designation of the outcome of the proceedings. To promote a common European asylum law in order to ensure a fairer distribution of asylum applications between EU Member States and a coordinated deportation practice across the EU. In this context, readmission agreements with countries concerned at EU level and bilateral agreements are particularly important. Asylum applications from refugees recognised in defined safe third countries shall be rejected. For reasons of transparency, procedural fairness and perceptibility of decisions, they must also be justified in detail in the event of recognition of asylum. For reasons of public interest, the BMI has a right of appeal against all decisions of the asylum court to the VwGH. Promoting measures for the rapid integration of recognised refugees into the labour market Due to the extremely high cost of basic provision of asylum seekers, an evaluation of the scope of basic care (e.g. (b) and effective control to prevent abuse on-the-spot. Special care places and support measures for mentally ill and intensive care of asylum seekers More effective evidence of performance and means of control in asylum and foreign police procedures Evaluation of the current thrust system. Best-practice models for thrust centres shall be developed, in particular with regard to the thrust performance, taking into account the EMRK. Optimization of deportation practice and strengthening the Europeanisation of charter deportations and use of synergies. Concentration of the organisation of deportations in the BMI, in particular contacts with countries of origin for the issue of home travel documents, travel organisation, actual implementation of transports etc. Participation Strengthening the integration of immigrants into social life and civil society, e.g. in the area of sport, culture, leisure, etc. Passive voting rights in legal representations for long-term immigrants Structure of institutions Evaluation and any further development of the Asylum and Migration Advisory Board Integration Platform: In order to facilitate this issue, an integration platform will be set up which will evaluate integration and foreign affairs and can propose appropriate measures; the representatives of this body will be sent by the Federal Government, the States, the municipalities, the social partners and experts. With a research focus on migration, the necessary data and basic material will be provided to policy makers. The Citizenship Act shall be evaluated in the presence of the necessary data after an appropriate period of time. Justice Basics Government parties will do everything they can to ensure the functioning of justice, guarantee and develop fundamental and freedom rights, and to promote Austria's economic location. In detail, it will be necessary to ensure constitutional independence of the legal protection officer in accordance with the StPO and to take steps to improve the disciplinary procedure to improve the transparency and citizens' proximity to justice. In this sense, an internal judicial body is to be set up for the prevention of misunderstandings in jurisdiction. In order to improve parliamentary control, the example of existing parliamentary committees is to examine the establishment of a subcommittee on the control of the indictment monopoly. In addition, it is also necessary to promote training in justice at all levels. Criminal law and criminal law All necessary steps will be taken to ensure the entry into force of the criminal process reform by 1.1.2008. Hiefor this, it will be necessary to promote the permissiveness between judges and prosecutors, to ensure constitutional and parliamentary control of the prosecution monopoly of the public prosecutors as the body of the judicial system, to speedily advance the reform of the main and judicial proceedings and to prepare organisational measures for the smooth change of systems. In this context, an adequate indictment infrastructure will also be ensured by the District Courts. Cooperation with the judicial and police authorities of the countries of origin of foreign criminals is aimed at preventing “criminal tourism” to improve and intensify. The aim is to strengthen significantly the efforts of the home country to take over the penalty, in particular from the point of view that successful resocialisation in the social environment of the home country is much more likely than in Austria. It is particularly important to strengthen the fight against trafficking in human beings and the sexual exploitation of women. In the field of substantive criminal law, sanctions should be extended, in particular through the introduction of non-profit services, as a penalty in combination with other forms of sanctions, and the possibility of a conditional redundancie while strengthening the prevention of relapse for residents, in particular by facilitating the provision of conditions. In the case of non-residence persons, rules are to be found to relieve the execution of such persons in accordance with fundamental and equality law. In appropriate cases and if penalties are not possible in the home Member State, the early release of third-country nationals is to be linked to an expulsion and an effective residence or residence. and the prohibition of return. The decision-making system should be optimised in order to ensure individual case-by-case justice in the event of conditional redundancies. Ensuring a functioning judicial system for young people is urgently needed, in particular in order to re-integrate once more troubled young people into society and reduce crime for the future. Resocialisation barriers should also be avoided and additional effective measures should be taken against all forms of violence in the family, in particular violence against women and children. In order to improve the possibility of abduction of long-term liberty and violence, a new law on penalties should be created similar to that of §§ 39 and 313 StGB, which allows for an increase in the basic penalty to the one and a half times if the circumstances of a threat of liberty or violence or the threat of a victim are particularly serious, especially if the exercise of violence goes on for a longer period of time and if the circumstances of liberation or violence are particularly painful and equal to a martyrdom. In order to avoid the execution of replacement sentences, the legislative steps to avoid imprisonment by non-profit work are to be taken on the basis of the results of the ongoing pilot project. In order to improve the basis for decision-making on criminal law policy, a general and specific set-aside statistics should be created. A research project will also improve the basis for assessing the risk of perpetrators. In addition, the establishment of an anonymous recruitment statistics by the public prosecutors is required. The case-law should not be abolished, but merely reformed (in particular, better selection and training of the parties, the public with respect to the law, the written obligation to state reasons). In the area of criminal enforcement, the organisation reform of the judicial system should continue and quality assurance should be introduced to ensure efficiency. That one. In view of the modified sentence structure, legislative measures are intended to provide for the conditions for improved differentiation between dangerous criminal offenders and those accessible to resocialisation; in this sense, there will be a differentiation between resident-strengthened offenders and others. In the course of these reforms, the training and training programme should also be improved in the judicial institutions. Victim aid The legislative measures are designed to ensure that damages and victim assistance take precedence over the execution of fines. In the field of victim assistance, legislative measures will also have to be considered for the financing of aid services that do not consist of therapy and process support but go beyond, such as rehabilitation of training, life support for traumatised victims or measures to increase the subjective safety of victims of violence. Taking into account the wide range of victim protection facilities and the different competences in this area, a victim assistance coordination centre is to be created in the interest of the victims, which is the point of contact for victims and ensures effective victim assistance through coordination. Civil law The area of family law should be thoroughly evaluated in terms of social change and its form of family and partnership co-existence, and further developed on the basis of the results in the context of social law, with the aim, in particular, of promoting family solidarity (marriage, living communities and patchwork), raising the employment rate, combating poverty, eliminating discrimination and ensuring age. In this sense, a further development of the maintenance right is also sought. The purpose of the child care is to be more efficient and more quickly enforceable using the available performance data, using the assessment of the maintenance advance law by means of a modified model (path from the court to the administrative authority). Legal improvements should be made for transgender people. The rules on gifts on the death toll and the accounting of pre-receipts should be evaluated and adapted in time. In the light of recent legal developments and in the light of the possibilities of medical and technical progress, the holding of a parliamentary survey/enquiry commission involving the Bioethics Commission, the Medical and Richtership, as well as experts from science and practice on the subject of “legal and ethical issues of human medicine” is agreed. In principle, the principle of indebtedness should be maintained in the context of compensation law. The discussion on any reform of the right of compensation is to be continued, taking into account the different positions. In this context, measures to accelerate procedures, particularly after road accidents, should also be taken in the interest of the applicants by means of appropriate procedural rules. ==References====External links==* Official website In the case of non-judicial dispute settlement. Group complaints are intended to make it easier to enforce similar claims made by several of those concerned, while respecting the individual’s claims for complaint. The situation in the case of pain payment claims should be evaluated and improved, in particular in the event of serious injury and permanent damage. Consumer protection law is to be further developed in the light of European legislation in the direction of a reasonable balance between the different interests. In the area of Internet crime, the opportunities for protecting consumers and the economy against new forms of crime must be provided by unreasonable providers (e.g. (i) to strengthen the use of information and communication systems. In order to protect consumers, construction contract law should also be amended and an insurance obligation for real estate creditors. It is also urgently necessary to take legal action against unscrupulous competitions. In order to combat the increasing debt of households and individuals, a package of measures should also be developed in cooperation with creditors. The digital rights of consumers must be implemented without prejudice to the further responsibility for infringements in accordance with the technological developments of our time and to improve data protection in the given context. After strengthening the rights of passengers, there should also be timely and appropriate consumer rights as well as charges for rail passengers. Further measures are aimed at improving the retention of property in the European equation, introducing a registrar, re-regulation of voluntary counterfeiting and improvements in the right of retention in the event of ques tion of performance. In the area of media law, a working group is to be set up to examine the possibilities for further development of this legal area, in particular to improve the achievement of media law. Copyright focuses on clarifying the relationship between “free use of work – technical protection measures” in the field of digital rights. The right to private copy of digital media is to be enforced. It is also intended to increase rights in non-commercial handling of digital content without reducing the legal level of copyright for artists. In order to protect artists against consumers, improved transparency should contribute to the protection of consumers. The implementation of the collecting society law is to be evaluated in a survey. Right of residence Living is, like work or health, a basic need for people. Living must be durable and high quality. In order to achieve this objective is/is maintain housing support; aim at environmentally friendly housing, providing affordable apartments for young people, To abolish contract fees for residential/rent contracts, to research through and complement the operating cost catalogue and to harmonise it in the area of renting; support a high-performance non-profit housing system; promote the diversity of housing and building management standards should be examined for harmonisation; to increase legal certainty for tenants and landlords in the single-family home area, while maintaining the greatest possible flexibility; to reduce the commission limit for tenants in cooperation with the professional group concerned for housing contracts. improve the transparency of rental contracts for landlords and tenants in the area of rental interest. Economic law In the interests of Austria's economic location, economic law will have to implement EU legislation without creating anti-competitive or harmful rules. These include measures to improve legal protection in this area. In order to promote cross-border economic activities, it will be necessary to improve the conditions and framework conditions for cross-border company constructions. The creation of flexible design opportunities in company law will also allow for benefits for the economic location. The latest innovations in competition and antitrust law will be subject to an evaluation. Questions of corporate governance guidelines are also to be evaluated with the involvement of the capital market representative. The aim of the reform discussions in this area must be to strengthen the Supervisory Board and the Auditor, which should be achieved through the networking of the Supervisory Board with the internal control system, by integrating the Supervisory Board into and ordering it, by developing a cleanliness and control package and a criteria catalogue for Corporate Social Responsibility. The transparency of stock-option plans should be enhanced taking into account sustainable corporate governance. Business law aims to improve the framework conditions for business succession. Finally, insolvency law aims to establish measures to combat abuse and to promote the rehabilitation of businesses. Sports The meaning of the sport: Recognition of sport as a major cross-sectional matter of society (health, social affairs, economy, tourism, education, integration, etc.) Confession to autonomous self-managed sport and correspondingly high-ranking representation of sportsmen in the new Federal Government A commitment to the inclusion of sport in the European Constitution Increase in the sports activity of the population (currently approx. 40 percent) Financing of sport Ensuring the financing of non-profit Austrian sport Ensuring the planning and financing security through the gambling monopoly. If legal conditions need to be changed here, an adequate, equivalent funding base with a dynamic effect should be ensured; Debureaucratisation of funding (e.g. One-stop shop principle in promotions, simplification of billing systems, etc.) Top Sports Optimization of the top sports support systems Networking of peak sports-related work disciplines (e.g. Performance centres, sports science, sports medicine, etc.) Strengthening anti-doping activities (for top-level sports and broadband) Clear commitment to the promotion of top sports and major sporting events Strengthening the use of opportunities by the 2008 European Football Championship and the 2014 Olympia Salzburg Maintain an optimal structure within the framework of the Heeressportzentrumen for Austrian top athletes and targeted support for Austrian top athletes in the police service. School sports & kindergarten sports Strengthening the integration of sport into the school programme Increase the quality of school sports through sport-specific, age-based teacher training Education on nutrition and health Development of the cooperation models of school and non-school sports organisations (union) Upgrade of school sports and winter sports weeks Sports as a health factor Make sport a recognised pillar of prevention in the health system. Campaign to raise awareness of sport and health through cooperation between relevant partners (sport, health and social sectors, social security institutions, countries, municipalities and sports organisations) Expanding the cooperation of organized sports with the “Fonds Gesundes Österreich” Professionalisation of sport-oriented, health-enhancing activities such as: ‘Fit for Austria’ Professionalization of sport Elaboration of appropriate legal frameworks with regard to the professional and career models of top-ranking athletes Elaboration of sports careers Club Sports Revision of the education and training area for organised sport by involving movement-oriented health promotion Support for priority projects (e.g. Integration measures, prevention of violence, exercise of sports for socially disadvantaged people) Key Programmes for Disabled People's Sport Strengthening the role of women in all areas of sport The great event UEFA EURO 2008 will place Austria in the field of sports interested in the public in summer 2008. With targeted preparation in and around the venues Innsbruck, Salzburg, Klagenfurt and Vienna, the best possible conditions for football teams, the media and the domestic and foreign visitors are created. This joint project will be prepared in close cooperation with Switzerland Arts & Culture The Federal Government is committed to an open dialogue with art and culture creators and to an open cultural climate that enables a critical discussion of the history of Austria as well as current social developments. The creativity and artistic potential of cultural creators make an important contribution to the discussion of social issues and the future capacity of our society. Art and culture have a high priority in Austria. The freedom of art, which is enshrined in the federal constitution, secures the different flows of art and their communication to their audience. The best possible framework conditions are intended to enable the free development and development of artists. The participation of the widest possible sections of the population in the knowledge and information society of the 21st century. We consider this to be the central cultural task of the century. Cultural policy is particularly important in view of the progressive globalisation and the increasing heterogeneity of European societies. The promotion of cultural and media diversity and the preservation of cultural areas at local, regional, national and European level are important objectives of our cultural policy. The European dimension of cultural policy is to be taken even more into account in the future. The Federal Government is committed to sufficient public cultural funding as an important investment in the future. Promotion of young contemporary art has an essential role to play. The Federal Government supports Linz as the European Capital of Culture 2009 (together with Vilnius). This nomination gives the state capital and the whole region new impetus and the opportunity to present itself as a creative and future-oriented cultural region with a sustainable impact. 1. Promote cultural participation The Federal Government aims to support cultural participation and to implement measures to expand cultural education. This means, on the one hand, more art and culture in schools, and the development of new forms of cultural communication together with existing cultural institutions ‘with due regard to existing resources’ A qualitative improvement of empirical data in the field of cultural participation is also envisaged. 2. Focussed on contemporary art creation The promotion of young contemporary art will be a focus of the federal cultural policy. In particular, attention should be paid to the promotion of young people. In addition, measures are to be taken to continue to force the international presence of Austrian artists. 3rd. Film industry and film promotion The importance of the audiovisual media should be further expanded in line with its cultural and economic importance. The establishment of an Austrian film platform with representatives of the film industry, politics, electronic media and experts is to be established in addition to the Filmrat. In addition, an improved coordination of the film promotion of the federal and the countries is envisaged. An improvement in the financial framework for the Austrian film industry to strengthen the film and media location Austria and improve the order situation of Austrian film creators is planned. The budget negotiations are the subject of additional appropriations needed for this purpose. 4. Promoting cultural diversity The Federal Government will work for the preservation and expansion of cultural diversity, such as in the sense of the wider cultural concept of UNESCO. Under the framework of international agreements (WTO/GATS), attention should continue to be paid to ensuring the specificities of the cultural sector and the special character of cultural goods and services. In particular, the year of intercultural dialogue decided by the EU in 2008 should be taken into account in Austria. A stronger promotion of regional cultural initiatives and intercultural projects as well as the further consideration of artistic quality in the federal states and a corresponding distribution of art funding are envisaged. 5. Evaluation of the Künstler Social Security Fund Assessment of measures for the suspension of the social situation of artists by the Künstler Social Security Fund by social insurance experts and examination of an extension of the KSVF's services under the existing system. 6. Federal Museum In order to safeguard the tasks of the Federal Museums in the field of collection and research, to increase the competitiveness and attractiveness of the public, the framework conditions must be expanded. The definition of the cultural policy mission is necessary in the form of the definition of framework target agreements to ensure the inventory and activities of the Federal Museums and the Austrian National Library. Introduction of an entry-free day 12 times a year for all federal museums against cost replacement for increased connection of museums to the audience. to develop measures in the field of the digitisation of cultural heritage. In addition, the budget negotiations are the subject of necessary funds. An increase in the basic salary will be examined in accordance with the budgetary possibilities. In the sense of a modern time-historic work on recent Austrian history, a project for the museum/scientific examination of the Cold War until the fall of the Iron Curtain is developed, taking particular account of the European context. 7. Bundestheater The Bundestheater are an important part of the cultural life in Austria. An evaluation of the Bundestheaterorganisation and the allocation of funds to the individual houses is sought. The increase in the basic remuneration and the repayment of the ‘one-time grant’ to the State Opera shall be examined in accordance with the budgetary possibilities. 8. Architecture Based on the construction culture report, the Federal Government will set up measures for anchoring quality building culture in all areas of public life and will force mediation for building culture and contemporary architecture. 9. Evaluation of gallery promotion and int. Art Fair Promotion The funding instruments introduced in 2001 and 2002 for the recovery of the Austrian art market and increased international presence are evaluated with the involvement of stakeholders. 10. Creative economy The creative sector at the interface of economy and culture is of particular importance for cultural production in Austria. In both cultural and economic terms, Austrian creative services have an important role to play. In order to strengthen the creative location of Austria and promote Austrian creative services, initiatives and support programmes are to be developed in a wide range of areas. Among other things, the promotion of Austrian music production should be ensured by the Austrian Music Fund, and increased cooperation between the Austrian music industry and the Austrian media should also be sought. 11th@item: inlistbox A responsible approach to the past is to be allocated to the scientific group. Based on the roadmap presented by the working group for the establishment of a House of History, a detailed concept will be drawn up in the second quarter of 2007. 12. Public books Public libraries are centres for education, culture, information and social integration. They make an important contribution to the comprehensive supply of literature and provide access to new media. A comprehensive development concept for public libraries is to be developed in cooperation with the legal authorities, experts and practitioners. Media and telecommunications The aim of the Federal Government's media policy is to ensure a pluralistic media landscape with qualitative offers. It is about securing the competitiveness of Austria as a media and cultural location, expanding the dual broadcasting system and implementing European standards. In this together. It is important to address the challenges posed by digitization and technological developments. Print media, radio, Internet and online media as well as the offer via telephone services, whether mobile or via the fixed network, grow together. The content is offered independently of the transmission route. New media formats arise and at the same time the possibility of a strong individualisation of the offer. Convergence of the media requires convergence of structures. These phenomena require a regulatory framework, the potential dangers to media diversity and/or media diversity. Concentrations are stopped. For Austria as a smaller country of the European Union, it is important to maintain an unmistakable Austrian media landscape with independent offers. 1. Independent regulator Media and telecommunications questions The Kommunestria Media Authority and the RTR business unit must be developed into a constitutionally independent, converging media and telecommunications authority. The instance and procedure will take place in two stages and bring legal certainty to media providers as quickly as possible. In the interests of equality of competition, all regulatory authorisations shall be issued by the regulator to all electronic providers. The regulator also performs a function as a competence centre and is responsible for the processing of press and publicity funding, the new media support, the digitalisation fund and the TV fund Austria. In addition to the previous tasks, the field of media research is added. 2. Media support Press and publicity promotion for printing media shall be evaluated and, where appropriate, further developed. In line with the budgetary possibilities, it is necessary to examine support for electronic media intended for commercial and non-commercial private providers. 3rd. Ensuring public broadcasting in the European context The ORF as a foundation with an unmistakable public-law profile plays a central role in the cultural identity and social integration of Austria. The ORF is to be positioned as a national and internationally active content company in the digital world with a clear public-law mandate and transparent forms of funding. Thus, the ORF as a public-law channel with fee financing is also secured and competitive at European level. In the course of digitalisation, the definition of the digital programme offer as well as the revision of the programme contract, in particular an increased consideration of the topic of youth protection and/or of the programme. the self-commitment to take into account Austrian productions. If the TW 1 division channel is to be financed by public law, there is the possibility of converting it into a divisional channel, for culture and information. Advertising restrictions should be evaluated and adjusted, where appropriate, in the interest of financing a high-quality ORF, taking into account its impact on the entire media sector, in the light of EU standards. 4. Private broadcasting A dual broadcasting system, with an unmistakable public-law broadcasting system on the one hand and independent, competitive private broadcasters on the other, is an essential part of a living democracy. Ensuring this system and fair conditions of competition are central concerns. This is particularly true for the upcoming digitalisation. The existing legal framework will be adapted to take account of European developments, take the necessary steps to digitise radio and ensure non-competitive access to infrastructure. 5. Digitalisation of electronic media As the digitisation of all media platforms and distribution channels will create a wide range of new formats and media services, the introduction of mobile TV on further multiplex platforms is also a goal. The transmission standard shall be checked by the media regulator. This measure will contribute to a greater variety of media and strengthen competition in the telecommunications and mobile communications sectors. From the perspective of the separation of infrastructure and content as well as competition protection, other multiplex platforms should be signed out by the media regulator and licensed by broadcasting services. 6. Positioning/enhancement of e-government services as an ICT location Especially in the course of digitalization, the expansion of the distribution routes (broadband, glass fibre) has to be promoted. Austria is expected to position itself among the top 3 of the ICT nations. By the end of 2009, full public supply will be provided with access to broadband infrastructure. A politically uniform contact for ICT issues appears necessary. As an advisory body, the ICT Task Force has already been set up. This creates the basis for future cooperation with all partners for the best possible conditions throughout the ICT sector in Austria. Here, too, the expansion of e-government services as well as the dissemination and use of digital signatures must be promoted. Finance Budgetary policy The objective of budgetary policy is a balanced budget over the economic cycle; the Federal Government is committed to a sustainable budgetary and financial policy, which responds to economic weaknesses in an appropriate way and balances over an economic cycle. The Federal Government pays attention to the common budgetary responsibility of all local authorities within the meaning of the Austrian Stability Pact. The objective of the budget balanced over the economic cycle requires discipline not only on the expenditure side but also on the income of taxes and taxes. Spaces for tax relief are being developed and must be manageable in the light of the fact that important future investment for growth and employment, the location of Austria, social security or other important public tasks must also be carried out. In its budgetary policy, the Federal Government pursues in particular the following objectives: Full employment (especially prevention of all types of youth unemployment) Modernising the economic location through technological, economic and social innovation Supporting the economic location and strengthening its competitiveness a budget balanced over the economic cycle Sustainable financing of social security Manufacture of equal opportunities between sexes Increased efficiency in public administration Increased emphasis on forward-looking budgets With the exception of the additional expenditure agreed in the government programme, all other projects and projects of the Federal Government are subject to a reservation of funding (see Annex "Middle-term growth and budget path"). In order to pay the price, all fees will be charged, e.g. Vignette undergoes annual valorization. In all investments and procurements as well as in running operations, the budgetary principles of economic efficiency, economy, efficiency and cost-effectiveness must apply at each stage. The Federal Government will also work at European level to ensure that financial and budgetary policies make an active contribution to growth and employment in the European Union. The Austrian Federal Government sets the following priorities: Growth and employment, research and development, infrastructure expansion, education, poverty prevention and social security, environmental protection and sustainability. Financial policy In the light of an evaluation of the work of the Financial Market Supervision (FMA), the aim is to make financial market supervision more powerful and efficient and to avoid double-tracking and interface problems and to ensure that a fair classification of the regulatory tasks in the context of the Federal Ministry of Finance is ensured and is also subject to parliamentary control. A working group involving the stakeholders and the Oesterreichische Nationalbank will be set up. Some countries have set up a development bank for closer economic development aid. The aim is to review the establishment of a development bank of BMF and BMAA. In this context, the relevant experience will be: and the cost-effectiveness of OeKB in export promotion. In order to improve the fight against tax evasion, the improvement of the organisation of fraud will be continued with a view to improving efficiency and ensuring the necessary training standards and flexibility. The Federal Government aims to ensure the best possible climate on the capital market in Austria. In order to strengthen confidence in the capital market, the Federal Government will work, inter alia, at European level, to harmonise accounting and accounting standards, to strengthen market and abuse supervision and to strengthen transparency rules. In order to increase credibility and confidence in the Austrian capital market, an improvement in the overall value of pension funds for pension funds pensioners and pensioners, including with regard to the consequences of poor earnings in the past, is to be achieved. In this context, an evaluation of the rules and policies of pension funds takes place, taking particular account of investor interests and transparency. In order to ensure the best framework conditions for a functioning and fair capital market, the Federal Government will support and support the following measures. review their implementation: verifying the external rotation of auditors and audit firms, measures against insider trade and abuse, a separation of audit and business advice; improving the stronger liability of corporate governance; Incentive to the emergence of a “Director’s Academy” according to an international model for the training of supervisory boards and boards of capital companies, an enhanced investor protection; the link between economic success and social responsibility (CSR). Tax reform In this legislative period, the Federal Government will implement a major tax reform with a tangible discharge of taxpayers and the economy without counter-financing. It is intended to create a modern tax system that will promote forward-looking economic location, growth and employment, purchasing power and domestic demand as well as a fair distribution of tax and tax burden. Austria's economic, tax and work location will continue to be attractive and the framework conditions for investors, companies and their employees will be further improved. The tax and tax system should be sustainable, include environmental aspects and be characterised by employment, investment and growth-friendlyness. This supports a positive economic development in Austria. The Federal Government will continue to promote the internationalisation of the Austrian economy and the settlement of foreign investors in Austria. In order to further improve the service provided to taxpayers, the financial management should send pre-filled tax returns to the taxable person. Medium-term growth and budgetary path 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 GDP growth real, % (before measures) 3.2 2.7 2.3 2.3 Maastricht deficit (before measures), as a percentage of GDP Bond -1.51 -1.70 -1.47 -0.77 -0.15 Countries and municipalities 0.40 0.40 0.40 0.40 Social security -0.04 -0.06 -0.06 -0.09 -0.10 general government deficit, as % of GDP -1.15 -1.36 -1.13 -0.46 0.15 Measures (million ECU) EUR) Multi-expenditure Growth and employment 50 100 250 400 Education 35 160 180 200 Social security 185 260 340 400 Expenditure-increasing measures 270 520 770 1,000 Savings League -620 -640 -640 -500 Countries and municipalities -50 -150 -250 -350 SV carrier -150 -170 -250 -310 Savings -820 -960 -1.140 -1.160 Expenditure - revenue (million ECU) €) -550 -440 -370 -160 as % of GDP -0.21 -0.16 -0.13 -0.05 Maastricht deficit (by measures), as a percentage of GDP Bundle -1.51 -1.53 -1.33 -0.68 -0.14 Countries and municipalities 0.42 0.45 0.49 0.52 Social security -0.04 0,00 0,00 0,00 general government deficit, as % of GDP -1,15 -1,12 -0,88 -0,20 0,38 GDP by measure GDP nominal (billion) € 256,0 267.5 278,5 289,9 301,8 GDP growth nominally 4.5% 4.5% 4.1% 4.1% 4.1% GDP growth real 3.2% 2.8% 2.5% 2.4% 2.4% Unemployment rate as % of labour force, (Eurostat) 4.7% 4.5% 4.2% 4.1% 3.9%
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e24152	The next item is the speech by Mr Bösch. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e24173	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! The team on the government bank has dramatically diluted in the last few hours, I have to say: The Minister of Defence has been “deserated” hours ago – but with him I understand. Following the good advice of his Federal Chancellor, he will recover basic training, and he will now learn there how to recognize the service marks in the federal army, how to bind the shoes, how to just stand, how to salute. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] – All of this is not unimportant, Mr. Cot. The fact that the Federal Chancellor is not taking part in this debate is a little surprising, but it is not, for I assume that he will now have the task of limiting the entire “insurgent uprisings” in his party – “low to low”. The people whose soil he once kissed as a “ stupid boy” would have said, but I do not want to spread it any more. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, today in the morning it was different: There we had a densely pressed government team in front of us, she sat up here like the spats on the wire, no paper had room between the members of the Federal Government. – Look, the situation changes so quickly! And we liberals as a new opposition party will make our contribution to this. Today we heard Alfred Gusenbauer's statement of government in the early days, and we have to note that it was actually not at all a declaration of government that there is no way at all to determine that a change of government is taking place here, because in the most essential elements we have actually found the same places that have occurred in the last few weeks in reporting on your government negotiations. Since the Foreign Minister and the Secretary of State for Europe have also left the government bank and I do not want to overclaim the "balled" remaining competence, I would like to ask you, Mr. Eine – you are also the European spokesperson of your group. And I now have the same lot as my colleague Graf, who had to answer the fireworks on lazy excuses from your colleague Broukal: I shall now turn to you on Europe's issues and the most important elements of this government programme, because it was you who took part in the negotiations. This is first of all about Turkey's accession to the EU, Mr. Eine, whom we have always rejected, while always insisting that the Austrian Federal Government is putting an act to an end to the accession negotiations. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The SPÖ, Mr Eine, when she was still a happy opposition party, has always strengthened us in this attitude. The SPÖ did not want to join Turkey, the SPÖ wanted to reach an alternative situation in this country with regard to the European Union. And the government agreement states that there will be a referendum in Austria before Turkey joins the European Union. This no-na-net, this lazy excuse that Wolfgang Schüssel came up with when he wanted to report on the Council in the EU and it was not the result that the Austrian public expected to repeat this record simply! But we will now be able to put this to the fore, Mr One, because now your party members will be represented in the Councils of the European Union, and we expect you to do so at the next European Council, when it comes to unanimity in dealing with the accession negotiations with Turkey, to keep your notices from opposition times and to vote against them so that there is no continuation of this ambiguity at European level. The claim that the appearance of our foreign minister has led to a change in the climate in Turkey's accession is an EIA legend. This is believed only in the ÖVP, in the club meetings of the ÖVP this is colported, but outside Austria, when you talk with colleagues from Europe, this is considered nonexistent. There the element of open negotiations will be challenged. It will also be disputed that there should be other variants and that the European Union's capacity to accept will also play a role in any new accession of Member States. So there seems to be a misunderstanding here somewhere. Either in Austria is not said what is being negotiated at European level, or there is not being properly negotiated. We liberals will insist that you will do so. Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and also ÖVP – who are now only present in residual stocks, as has been said – we expect you to also represent the interests of Austria at European level in future and to make your announcements made in your time of opposition.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e24263	Mr Donabauer has now been mentioned. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e24285	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! Everyone with great interest has certainly expected the declaration of government. – She was comprehensive, she was broad. Personally, I have not been so impressed by the fact that the Federal Chancellor gives me additional hours, but rather by the remarkable finding that we are living in a safe country. That's something I haven't heard in recent months. I am very happy about this, because this is a confirmation of the policy that has been made, and I am also glad if it now finds consensus and continues so. I have not to judge the comments of the individual clubs, I have only noticed that Klubobmann Dr. Cap has not yet shown the enthusiasm we may expect, but I am convinced that: He's able to learn, he'll bring them. I do not agree to judge you, Mr Klubobmann Strache, but I would recommend that you: Leave personal diffamations away in the future! - A lot you've done. [[Abg. Which one, please?]] [[Abg. Strache: Which one?]] It would be better for you and the house. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Schüssel.]] [[Abg. Strache: Don't put anything that didn't happen!]] Interesting is just one thing: Everyone wants to talk along, just as I can see, not everyone shows themselves responsible! That is probably something some are taking a lot back. Our clubman took a clear position. He said once again and very sustainable and credible that it is about the future of this country that it is primarily about the design of policy for the future. It is about youth, it is about politics also for those people who are not yet represented here today, but we must think of it. It is really about acting on it and saying and finding a lot, even if it is not popular today. It is about making policy for tomorrow, even if it is not popular in all areas today. The start of this government will take place under good conditions. I think the start ramp is statically perfectly secured, architecturally best built. We have employment figures that can be shown, and if we still have in the government programme that we want to reduce unemployment by 25 percent, that is, I think, a clear message, which also finds understanding and much expectation and approval among the citizens. That is why I think it is important because it is a matter of value creation, and in the case of more value added, we can be a little broader in some areas. In your opinion, Mr Sozialminister, you have talked about sustainability in particular and you mean that some important processes have to be reworked. I am glad that you realize that there is no return to the start – the pension reform was right, it was essential to the generation contract – but I have already been impressed in some way that you have said that you are planning some modifications. On page 103, for example, the Convention reads about the harmonisation of invalidity and incapacity for work. There it is found that there are different assessments within the professional groups today, and I am glad when we finally start to establish justice in this area and to help those people who want to work but who can no longer do it, because we cannot do so today so comprehensively. You have a partner in us at any time if you do. The Minister for Health has confirmed the health reform and its continuation. – This is basically positive. It has also been discussed today about rural development and, above all, about the field of renewable energy. This is an area of hope, and I am glad that today, by the Federal Chancellor, a clear commitment has been made to the fact that every euro from Brussels is to be picked up, that every euro in the rural area is due. Thus, I think, once the debate is over, it is class-warring: Who gets more? Do people need that? Please note: It's about work, it's about the future! In Austria, working in rural areas, in agriculture – and this is also a factor – 520,000 people, and ensuring sustainable security, is an intelligent project of this government. I am glad that we are now entering the new task of starting work. I hope that this coalition manages properly, especially in the field of the distribution of public funds. [[Abg. Street: Hope dies at the last!]] – A difficult project, but I believe that with these specifications it is optimally controlled.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e24367	The next item is Mrs Mandak's speech. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e24389	Madam President. High house! Dear Members of the Government! I have already pointed out the situation in the field of care and support for elderly people in my contribution to the debate on the urgent matter. The criticism in this area goes in the direction: a lot of promised but no budget for it. Mr Gisela Wurm says that the Social Minister has a big heart, but he will not use it if he does not have the money. I think that you, Social Democrats, should be aware of this – and you know it – that it simply does not work without appropriate financial resources. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What makes me very proud of the care of the government agreement is your opinion on the revision of the 15a agreement, which is very cryptic. You have also answered the question very cryptically, Minister Buchinger, whether you would like to change the image of the Social Ministry. Just as cryptic – now I almost believe that comes from you – is that you want to change this legal regulation, but it doesn't come out in which direction at all. You want a uniformation, and I don't know if you're trying to get a levelling up or down. That means: Should it be the case in the future that the home will be used to cover care costs throughout Austria? In the future, it will be the case that in all the Federal Republic of Germany countries where children have to pay contributions if their parents are cared for and are unable to pay the care themselves? Is that your intention? Or is it your intention that there should be this regulation in no longer a federal state? – We believe that both must not be in the federal state anymore! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would be very glad if we could hear from you a very clear commitment to how you see it and how your intentions are here. It remains open whether social assistance will have to be repaid in the future; continue whether a legal claim will exist. All these questions have not been answered in the context of basic security. In the family sector, for family policy measures, child care benefits are noticed to be made more flexible. - Good. A reduction to 18 months is a possibility, but I personally think it is very, very sorry that you did not pack the opportunity in the kick and did not finally agree on an income-dependent karenz money, which would have really led to more fathers going in Karenz than currently 3.5 percent. That would have been a good chance. To criticise absolutely is that you offer a reduction, but then make much worse conditions. So a couple who spend 18 months in Karenz get 14 400 €, a couple who use 36 months of karenz gets 15 700 €. - Not understandable! If, please also, a halving or doubling of the child care allowance that is paid! What is completely lacking in these family policies is the introduction to the new family forms, to the various patchwork families, to the new social fathers and mothers, thereby bringing about a change in family law and the urgently necessary new maintenance right. Both points are not provided for in the family policy measures. I think this is very, very bad; they're not in it. I still hope that the ministers will work to ensure that there are legal regulations that correspond to the situation in the families and that families in Austria really hope for. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e24459	Mr Wittmann has now come to speak. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e24480	Madam President. Dear Members on the Government Bank! High house! I want to lose a few words on the constitutional part of this government programme. I believe that this is a very ambitious project, which is set out here. There are several areas of the Constitution that are addressed, and I believe that nothing legitimizes a great coalition more than to bring about constitutional majority changes in the field of state and administrative reform. I believe it is important that we get through with a catalogue of fundamental rights in the Constitution. A modern constitution with a catalogue of fundamental rights in which the freedom of individuals and the dignity of human beings is guaranteed and fundamental rights which can also be implemented and enforceable is more than a constitution in which this is not present, all the more so than negotiating at European level a catalogue of fundamental rights in the Constitution. It will also be important to reorient the division of competence between countries. In this area, the distribution of competence is planned in accordance with a three-pillar model, a single legislation at the federal level, a single legislation at the national level and a mixed legislation. The competences should be as clearly separated and detailed as possible. That would also correspond to a reorganisation of our state. I believe that it is also important to search through the existing constitutional provisions and come to a legal settlement. In this respect, intermediate services and pre-negotiations in the Convention Committee are already very advanced. I believe that it is quite possible to say that, after the next Constitutional Novel, we are likely to have fewer than 500 constitutional provisions in Austria. The fact that these are divided into a constitutional area, that fundamental rights are something to be done and that one is finally addressed to a national administration court, including projects that are necessary. We have already heard about the right to vote: Election with 16, one of the fundamental demands of social democracy, is present in this programme. That is to say, this is a comprehensive constitutional package that could ensure a more modern and efficient governance that would bring about a reorganisation of competences. I think it's time to start this project. It also mentions the ethnic groups. The question will be re-regulated. I'm curious how fast you're gonna come to a solution here. I believe that the groups deserved to finally get the State Treaty implemented. To my second sub-area, the sport, I would like to say that I can also note a very comprehensive programme here that the top-level sport as well as the wide-ranging sport is there, that we finally have to set specific goals, namely in school sports, as well as in major events such as the EM 2008 and the application of Salzburg for the 2014 Winter Olympics. I believe that a very extensive commitment to sport is contained in this government program – now it is up to us to live it.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e24532	Mr Mayerhofer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 4 minutes welcome. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e24553	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! The Government's programme reads in the area of internal security: “The Austrians have a claim to be protected from crime.” – No na! With this tax rate, the citizen may already expect some return. As a police officer, I find the current situation in the personnel sector at least 30 years of service on the bumple, which is anything but satisfactory. The announcement in the government programme that there is a need to assume an increase in the level of staffing may not only be perceived as a threat by the police, but also by the tax-paying population. The police suffer from this rage of bureaucracy, which has been unloaded, only because, over the past period, the Minister of Finance could look forward to saving a few hundred, I say, relatively favourable administrative staff. The entire administrative consciousness has been washed down on police inspections, and today the citizens are allowed to wait because the so-called IPOS, the integrated police security system, the new logging system, often does not work for hours. The police and with them the citizens are allowed to wait. Citizens often leave the watchrooms and inspections unproven things if they do not need an ad confirmation for any insurance. Of course, these innumerable cases will not be striking in the security report, and I believe that this is precisely why this slight decline in crime is to be explained. I would also like to say that we very much welcome the modernisation of the infrastructure announced in the government programme and that the funds actually arrive there. – Only too easy – I know that; this is not the first government statement I have pursued; I am a politically relatively interested police officer; I have always been interested in what several ministers and governments have announced – funds remain in the central offices. I hope that this will finally change. The police have wishes, often very simple and lapidares. However, one does not believe that in this modern state such wishes may only be heard with the help of media – for example a small format – that a police officer has to turn to the public with confidence and ask for the windows to be cleaned at least every five years. You don't think that's possible in Austria. A cleaning woman has an hour to keep a big police inspection clean. These simple things the police can't use – I find that unfair! Police who are at any time willing to enter even with their highest wealth, health, and possibly with life for the population, want to be at least as well accommodated as the inmates in the so-called designer ports and luxury detention facilities in Leoben. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Disciplinary law: There you can see with what inequality you are doing. A small police officer, who is surprisingly ordered to an overtime service at 6:00 p.m., has the wrong uniform pants on, a blue one instead of a green one, and gets a penalty of €1 100 from the disciplinary lawyer. Very fine! And the leaders of an entire police force drive all night and are suspected – I say it very carefully – to have betrayed at least several stripes, and that is not any of the things we had to find today in the “Austria” newspaper. What do the executives of Austria wish? Very simple things: neat, clean and well equipped services, modern and functioning equipment and a reasonable training on it, instead of the commander coming to the officials with any lists and saying: Sign quickly, and go out into the field service so that he can then say they are trained anyway. – They are partly too little trained, because so much new technology has now come to the services, even not functioning equipment, I have to say quite honestly. I can tell you this from practice. What I still wish for is better control of the executives. Two ministers are watching for months how a head of a police force in Vienna is ruining the position of officials on the worst, I say now. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The little police officer has to justify the behavior of his management officer below – after good night! – I don't know, I can't give you that much information. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: He put on the right pants!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Renewal hustle and bustle.]] I would ask the Minister, who unfortunately is not here now, to take these wishes into account. We will follow this closely, in the interest of the Austrian police, who are really committed every day and – surprisingly under such circumstances – do good work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e24619	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Sonnberger. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e24640	Madam President. Estimated government members! High house! I can present some projects in the field of state and administrative reform. With the introduction of national administrative courts, procedures will be accelerated, the service for citizens will be significantly improved and the administrative court will be relieved. Strengthened citizen orientation, efficiency improvement and rapid procedures to ensure legal certainty are the main criteria of modern administration. The aim is to expand the one-stop shop principle. E-Government should be available to citizens, especially at municipal level. Social assistance, unemployment assistance and emergency aid are concentrated on one site. A uniform concept of investment and parties is also sought. The aim is also to eliminate double-tracks in the school administration by creating a single unit of organisation for the affairs of the federal and state school administration under the direction of the head of state. By summer 2007, the system for the implementation of the local knowledge of the Constitutional Court in broad consensus with the ethnic groups will be constitutionally secured on the basis of the previous proposals. An offer for young people, but undoubtedly also a challenge, is the reduction of the active electoral age to 16 years. There were two classes of school in Parliament a week ago, 60 students aged 15 and they expressed a very different opinion when discussing whether they wanted to vote at 16 years of age: Eight have opted for the right to vote, 52 have said they do not want to vote. It is therefore already a challenge to inspire youth for politics, to inform them better. The choice of letters abroad is simplified by the absence of the need for a witness, and the choice of letters will also be possible domestically at national councils, councils, country councils and mayors' direct elections and federal presidential elections. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is a major improvement in the ability to exercise the right to vote, which seems to be useful in terms of the declining electoral participation and in the interest of a civil service, and this will finally be implemented. The extension of the legislative period to five years is also in the interest of citizens, as the operational phase of government and parliament work is extended to an effective four years. I have only been able to represent briefly sub-areas of government and administrative reform. A much wider, more demanding programme has been developed in general. It is now waiting for successful implementation. There's a lot of work in front of us.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e24701	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Dr. Zinggl. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e24723	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me say a few words about cultural policy, as it appears in the government's programme. Many words won't be, there's nothing to analyze in this collection of no-na statements, at best to comment on something. If such sentences as “Culture has a high priority” – much more is it not – would occur in a school essay that would write on the topic “What do I expect from a cultural policy?” then the teacher would probably write below: Shame! Make more of yourself! You better! Try more next time! or something similar. I'm even wondering: Why isn't there a successful cultural programme inside? This has not been a question of negotiations, there are enough common ground between the People's Party and Social Democracy. This can already be determined by using the 1999 White Paper alone. This was one of the last publications of the last great coalition, where nothing else was actually written together than what can be done together in the next period. These are 200 pages, and if you had attached these 200 pages to the 167 pages of the government program, it would have been 367 pages, a proper thickening. At least some very concrete things could have been taken over. The preamble of this White Paper alone contains more than the entire government programme on culture. What would have been in there? – For example, the multi-year subsidy of the art institutions. This is a long-standing demand, even from the old great coalition, is also in the last government program of the black and blue-orange government – has not been realized. And now it's not inside at all. Why not? The art institutions, the whole cultural scene, they want this to continue. The parties also want to continue to do so. So: Why doesn't it stand in there? Other things, such as the abstinence of works of art, as was done in the last government program and as it was not realized, are not inside this time; I can still understand that somehow. But maybe the consideration was: The last government has written everything possible, then nothing has become out of it, that's embarrassing, so we don't write anything into it at all, then nothing can go wrong, and everyone is somehow satisfied. That's some sort of obscene strategy. Maybe one party thought we'd get the Minister of Art, and if nothing stands inside, it can do what she wants, great. And the other party will have thought that we will get the Minister of Finance, who will look after the money, finally everything will be regulated about the money and can only be done what the Minister of Finance wants. We will therefore have to wait for the budgetary negotiations. Mrs Bundesminister, I am sorry because you will have to discuss something that could have been in a programme for a long time. Even without money, there are enough similarities. For example, transparency is contained in the White Paper, something that the People's Party has also included in the last, past election programme. So you could have written that in. One could have put together a nice colorful ostrich of common demands, wishes and changes in cultural policy. As the opposition politician, I could only have said: Hopefully you can also realize a lot of it! But there is nothing left to me but to say: Do something at least, because there is nothing in the program, and obviously there is no money for it either!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e24771	Now comes Mrs Mag. Grossmann speaking. 3 minutes welcome. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e24792	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! If you listen to anyone who is disappointed that social-democratic goals are not achieved 100 percent equal and immediately, then you might think that this government agreement has caused a wondrous process of louting, even formally, a flash of mind by finally recognizing the correctness of social-democratic goals. For this reason, it was worth participating in this government constellation. Unfortunately, the suffering of study fees pushes out the many positive choices for Austria's youth from public attention. A real political sensation has succeeded in reducing the age of elections. After long work of conviction, this was finally followed by the arguments of the SPÖ. In addition, Silvia Fuhrmann and I, which we have negotiated for the youth sector, have also agreed on framework conditions for successful political participation, namely active promotion of youth participation models, introduction of a youth impact assessment in legislative projects, better and fairer promotion of youth organisations, which also allows for planning security. Children's and youth rights should finally be enshrined in the Constitution – not only as an empty phrase, but as an active mandate to legislation and enforcement. The most important aspect for me, however, is the fight against youth unemployment. I am glad and I am also proud that there has been a great deal of negotiation for young people. The core is a training and job guarantee for young people. No young person is supposed to have to stand on the street anymore. Those who fail to obtain or maintain a specific teaching contract in a holding should be able to learn a profession in over-company facilities, for which the JASG measures are developed accordingly. It is also important to improve the permeability of the education systems between the apprenticeship training system on the one hand and the school/university education system on the other, in accordance with the principle “no conclusion without follow-up”. We have agreed to reform apprenticeship training in order to allow young people more opportunities in the labour market. The teaching is intended to be modularized in the way that only a broad basic training module is used for specialization, so that, if required, it can be easily rescheduled in a job relatively easily. Vocational orientation is to be extended and made binding on all school types from the seventh level, with particular reference to the gender role models. The social partners have prenegotiated changes in the protection of termination – whether the expected positive effects of employment occur here is to be observed very closely. In any case, the common objective is the drastic reduction of youth unemployment, and all measures are subordinated to this objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e24841	Mr Kurzmann has now come to speak. Desirable time: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e24862	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! In the first chapter of the new government programme, which is entitled “Austria – Partners in Europe and the World”, you postulate as a goal – an important goal of your government – the deepening of the European community of values. This, ladies and gentlemen, is an objective that we as a freeman can support indefinitely. Then: Like American President Monroe, who is beneficially different from the present, in the 19th century. ==References====External links==* Official website America to the Americans!, we are more consistent than many other movements for the demand: Europe to the European peoples! This, as you may have seen from the media, has led to the formation of a political group of European domestic and right-wing parties in the EU Parliament a few days ago. The new name of this group is ITS, and this is precisely what we stand for, namely, identity, tradition and sovereignty. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We expect, ladies and gentlemen, that the deepening of the European community of values, which you have sought and announced, is the traditions that we have always represented in Europe, namely the traditions of a Christian country of the evening and not that of an anonymous multi-cultural society. We expect there not only to be announcements, but also to let you follow your announcements. As human rights spokesperson of the Freedom Party, I would point out that many of the issues that concern, for example, the displaced or our minority in today's Slovenia, namely the old Austrians, are still not solved or are not sufficiently solved. Or do you perhaps think today that the Czech Beneš decrees, which are still part of the legal and constitutional reality in the Czech Republic, are really compatible with what you call the European community of values? Or are the laws adopted on the basis of the old Tito-Communist Avnoj laws in today's Slovenia really compatible with what you call the European community of values? I'm convinced: The opposite is the case! – Although you had the best opportunity – especially for the former Chancellor Schüssel – to address these issues in the sense of a just European post-war order, You left this chance out, let it pass. Václav Havel said in 2001, as the first and last Czech politician, that the Beneš decrees are morally objectionable. And after that, it's the Czech politics again shlid back into its old anti-Austrian and domestic tradition. Or in Slovenia: Is the history of how it would correspond to a modern European state really up-to-date? Really up-to-date – and this is the difference to the earlier Tito-Communist history – is only the murder of the domobrants committed by the Tito-Partisans. Our minority is still not rehabilitated, and we have not noticed at all that the Austrian Federal Government is committed to doing so. I have only heard from the foreign minister today that she was proud to take part in the introduction of the euro in Liège. Did she meet the representatives of our minority there? - I don't think so. At any rate, she did not mention a word of that. I would like the new Austrian Federal Government to continue to act here, as the Hungarian government representatives always represent the interests of their ethnic group in Romania, but also its ethnic group in Slovakia. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is missing in our policy, and this is really a failure that we really have to address in recent years to this Austrian People's Party and its foreign policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e24929	Ladies and gentlemen, I am constantly seeing Handyphone Members, where I am looking. We are at the beginning of a legislative period, and I am not going through immediately, but I am drawing attention to the fact that it has been agreed: To get caught by phone while calling the phone draws a call for order. As far as employees are concerned, they also need to be referred to the hall. I hear some of the bells, too. I do not think this is a good start, and I would really ask you all to stick to this agreement – in the interest of those who speak. The next item is the speech by Mr Glaser. Desirable time: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e24957	Estimated President! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! To colleague Kurzmann just one word: The Monroe Doctrine he spoke about would certainly no longer sign 80 percent of the Americans today, for that has in practice said: America the USA!, and not: America the Americans! I would like to comment briefly on two points of the Government Declaration. On the one hand: I am delighted with the investment in infrastructure, the expansion of broadband in rural areas. This will improve the location of rural areas. On the other hand: I am absolutely pleased about the expansion of road and rail, that 10.5 billion euros will be invested for this in the next four years. I believe that we need to invest and rethink the links with our eastern neighbours. I would like to draw the attention of the Minister for Infrastructure, who is not here at the moment, to the southeastern corner of Austria, for example, because there is, for example, a “weak” railway link between Graz and Budapest, and in the street area, a federal road that is 70 years old. There's a need for action. but I hope that the expansion with this announced additional money will be possible. Another area that gives me great pleasure is the development cooperation and the dedicated commitment of this federal government to implement the decision of the EU Council to apply 0.51 percent of the gross domestic product to this area by 2010. I think that's necessary, right, and good. It will only be necessary to expand or rebuild the structures necessary for this purpose. I welcome the fact that operational involvement in development cooperation should also be supported accordingly. Above all, however, it will be necessary for us to do better to the organization that has done great work so far, the ADA, which is responsible for the implementation of development cooperation. This, of course, also applies to NGOs working on the ground. Overall, I believe that this can actually do more in the field of development cooperation than in recent years. I think that if we appreciate the development as a whole and the peace in the world accordingly, this is also absolutely necessary. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e25008	The next item is Mrs Sburny's speech. 4 minutes welcome. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e25029	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! If we start from what the relevant ministers have presented here today in terms of research, innovation and technology, we might be afraid and afraid. Mr Faymann said exactly one sentence on this issue, namely that Ms Kranzl, Secretary of State, will support him in this area. – I’m glad, but I don’t think that’s what it says yet. Mr. Hahn has started his statement by speaking discreetly of the fact that there are differences of competence in the field of research, and it is obvious that his main point is to continue these disputes of competence. Luckily, one has to say that, in addition to this presentation, there is a written document, namely the government programme, which gives a little cause for hope, at least to hope. There are some good news about research, innovation and technology, which are at least once the goals that are in here. There is a part that refers to SMEs, i.e. small and medium-sized enterprises, where targets are stated, such as the need to review the funding guidelines with a view to innovation, further safeguarding and optimising tax funding. These are really nice goals, which are also related to the 7. The EU framework programme, which, as well as some others, lacks concreteisation. There are also a few other objectives that are noted, but I am coming to the problematic parts very quickly, which is the concreteisation of these objectives. I would like to say this in two areas, in two rough areas. One is structural questions in the field of research, which we have really discussed and discussed over the last few years. There are just – point one – these competence disputes, which are certainly not the result of further division of the ministries. The Commission will continue its efforts to improve There remains – and nothing in the government programme – complete transparency in funding research funding between the federal government and countries. This also applies to the way in which specific research projects are defined. It is again working with the offensive programmes which have been removed from Parliament's control. That means that it will not continue to be possible to plan for the long term, as it is particularly important for the economy. The role of the Council for Research and Technology Development is also addressed. It is at least positive that the role of the Council should be addressed here. But you don't know exactly: Should he now consult or should he develop strategies, or is he perhaps already involved in the implementation? What is also not noted is the involvement of Parliament – which is also an old issue –: Where can Parliament decide on these research and technology issues? The most important point, however, is the question of financing. I would just like to show by one example how unscrupulous that is, what is in the government programme, although we share the objective that much more money should go into research and development. They write that in order to achieve the Barcelona target – i.e. 3 percent of GDP for research – it is necessary to reach the expansion of federal funds by 10 percent annually. If you look at this now, you can see: In 2006, research funds amounted to €1.92 billion. This would mean that if you want an annual increase of 10 percent, you will need 891 million in the first year, that is 2007, 192 million and by the year 2010. Instead, you have budgeted 50 million for 2007 and a maximum of 400 million by 2010. This results in a funding gap of €1.3 billion. Just 1.3 billion €! – So much too much Your seriality in the field of objectives, or going to how you intend to implement it. There is my fear that, as with the old government, as with the new government, we will hear a lot of floskels. I do not want to hide my hope, namely the hope that there may be opportunities for a different kind of discussion and that research and innovation might also offer themselves.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e25088	Mr Krainer has now come to speak. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e25109	Madam President. High house! I'm going to have to take a short look, I've got a lot of issues. On the environment, three things. The first is the biggest environmental challenge – not only for the government, not just for the opposition and for Parliament, but for all territorial authorities, for countries, communities and for society as a whole – which will be the issue of climate protection in the next few years. This is contained in the government programme, but is not limited to the Federal Government. It is also necessary to involve Parliament in what will also happen after a new climate strategy is drawn up, which must include and coordinate all activities of the local authorities. It is also to be assessed annually here as to how climate change looks, where we need to improve. This must also be done here in Parliament. As far as the individual parties are concerned, of course, reports should also come to the plenary session, because we want reports not only to be negotiated in the committees. The new figures for 2005 will also be presented tomorrow by Minister Pröll. Unfortunately, he will announce what we have predicted, namely a new CO2 emission ceiling, because the measures of the old Federal Government have not been enough to bring about a trend change here. On the contrary: The negative trend will have continued. Based on the increased number of heating days and developments in industry and also in the transport sector, we see that it will certainly have to announce a new record of CO2 emissions for 2005. Also for 2006, the first figures do not look as if there was a trend change. There is no country in the European Union that is so far away from the climate change objective as Austria. Even the US is now almost behind us now, when it comes to the bad, and before us when it comes to the good compared to the base year 1990. In 2004 we almost overtook them, in 2005 it was reversed again. It must be clear to all of us that we are anything but a model country here. With regard to air situation, the situation of both nitrogen oxides and the effect of fine dust pollution must evolve and new legal measures must be taken here and come to grips with how we get it. Anti-Atom policy should not be a lip commitment anymore, but a real part of the politics of the Federal Government. Animal welfare: Even if this issue is not directly comprehensive in the Government Declaration, it is true that, as I believe, all parties to the decision of the last GP, namely to include animal welfare as a state target in the Constitution, should still feel bound. In the course of the constitutional reform to be addressed this year, it should be a part of it. Of course, the Federal Animal Protection Act needs to be evaluated where it works well and where there are weaknesses. I also see the need for action in the transport of animals. The country of Styria today has taken a decision – unfortunately against the votes of the ÖVP – that needs to be controlled more efficiently here. There are a number of possibilities in the Animal Test Law. There are international discussions on the rights of apes. We have already done this in part by prohibiting animal testing on apes. But we should also have this discussion. Now also a few words on the budget, on the financial area. It has handed over two guinea pigs to Finance Minister Grasser: a large one for the new Minister of Finance and a slightly smaller one for the Secretary of State. Of course, the two piglets were empty – just as empty as the state funds he left behind, and as empty as the promise that there will be a zero deficit, and just as empty as other promises that have been made. [[Abg. Scheibner: You're talking about the year 1999!]] Nor am I surprised that he no longer wants to be a member of the Federal Government, because the policy that is happening now, also in the budget and in the financial sector, is another one than he has done it. In contrast to less in the social field, less education and less public investment, it is now simply reversed: there is more money in the social field, more money for education, more money for public investment, more money for employment, more money for growth. And that's something that just doesn't correspond to his policy. However, I am very confident that this change of course will be seen in many parts of the EIA in financial policy, and I am pleased that in today’s edition of the “Kurier” of the Economic Federal Secretary-General I am already thinking about forms of value added tax. I think we will have very exciting times in the next few years, and there will be very positive developments here. In this sense, I am looking forward to the next years. The opposition is, of course, invited to make proposals, but – and I have to say that immediately – to make a proposal on the basis of the empty state funds whenever possible, from where we should take the money for it. But we'll talk about it in detail. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e25173	Mrs Haidlmayr has now come to speak. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e25194	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have known that the government agreement for disabled people in the field of care benefits leaves nothing more or less. We knew, even though you always promised us different. I can only give you an interview of 22. Read out on September. Dr. Alfred Gusenbauersag quite specific: Valorization of care allowance: The care allowance must be increased annually at least at the rate of inflation. Every year and at least with the inflation rate! – Statement by Dr. Gusenbauer in word and image. [[The speaker holds a sheet of paper with text and image in height.]] And what do we get? - Nothing we can get! What you have promised us is a valorization in four years, and you do not even say how high it will be. This means that there is at least a real loss of more than 10 percent for those affected. That is what you, ladies and gentlemen, of the SPÖ, have to answer. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ and the BZÖ.]] If the Secretary of State comes here now and says, no, it is not, we offer you an actual benefit instead of the care allowance, then please no one will believe that this benefits are sufficient. [[State Secretary Dr. Matznetter: In addition!]] I cannot then pay for the Mrs Maier, whom I have chosen myself, because Mr Berger or Mrs Berger is sent by the Sowieso Association. They do not come for nothing, but of course they also receive a salary with the additional wage costs. And in addition, I have to pay the infrastructure costs for this woman or this man and the heating costs in the office and I don't know what else to do, up to the club's high-gloss advertising brochure. This argument is such a thing that I have nothing left. What the SPÖ wants – and that has always been the case – is to say: We don’t give you any money, but we don’t let you starve, but we put a few people on the eye. If it doesn't fit, it's your story. Greet your neighbors well every day and be kind, for tomorrow you may need him to get out of the bathtub! That is the system, and this has absolutely nothing to do with self-determination of people with disabilities or people of old age! [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ and the BZÖ.]] That's very clear, strange control, up to the mark, I have to say, and we don't need that. If now in this paper there is a need for care providers to take care advice, then everything stops. Mrs Haubner! You're a victim or a perpetrator, no matter how you see it now, this system. [[Abg. Scheibner: No!]] They have sent out 2 000 care checks, consulting checks, with the result that ten out of 2 000 have taken advantage of this. We don't need that, we can make an offer, but we can't force anyone to do it. And in the future we will be forced to perform certain services. Mr. Matznetter! I've discussed this with you more than intensively. We don't need that! We need structures in Austria, in accordance with the 15a Treaty of 1993, which has not yet been implemented, the countries are responsible. People need appropriate care money to be able to buy adequate services. We need that, and this is not the case in this government agreement. On the other hand, people with disabilities and also old people will know how to defend themselves. We are not forced to be happy or foreign; that must be clear to everyone. There is still much to be said about what happens in this chapter of care, people with disabilities. But one thing has already occurred to me – Mr. Darabos is no longer here –: Civil servants are no longer present in the government programme. [[Abg. Scheibner: You don't need them in the government program if...!]] I didn't find anything. The announcement that civil service will be shortened to six months – the statement of Mr. Darabos in the Civil Service Reform Commission – is no longer contained in the government programme. There's no civil service at all. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is the SPÖ unpleasant!]] And that is also a sign to me how quickly one can say goodbye to his civil servants as civil servants.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e25307	Now comes Mr Dipl.-Ing. That's right. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e25329	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister and State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We see many of the ÖVP principles implemented in the current government programme: from freedom of choice instead of foresight to security instead of negligence, to relief instead of burden to sustainability instead of waste. This has been the guarantee of success so far, and it will and will continue to be so in the future. In any case, the ÖVP will ensure this. From the point of view of Kärntner, I can take two points very briefly. Firstly, it is the infrastructure, it is the infrastructure projects. Here, German chancellor Gusenbauer said that the main focus is on closing gaps. I hope that the highway from Jüdenburg to Klagenfurt, which we have taken over, will be given priority to the former B 317, now S 37. Although there has been a takeover here, it is clear that the planning basis for this is still to be provided and that a timetable for development is also to be drawn up. And above all, the basic principle applies: First, build – and then cash – and not as it is currently happening in Carinthia by the competent Council of State, that it is first disassembled and that the expansion should only take place in further succession. This also includes a Koralm railway and further modernisation of the South Railway. The second issue, a very important issue for the south, is, of course, the question of the placeboards. The consensus reached in June 2006 is reasonable. This consensus is to be maintained – that is the basis and at the same time the goal. I should like to encourage the SPÖ colleagues to find the courage they lost at the time to say yes here. I also hope that there will not be an exchange of roles on the part of the BZÖ, that you will not lose courage and that someone will not give us the success again, that success, the German chancellor Schüssel has worked out in an excellent way with all the representatives at the time. Carinthia needs this permanent solution. It must simply have an end to this egg dance, because this does not work well for the Carinthian image, and that is why this solution is absolutely necessary here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can also speak briefly about my special theme: the forest, the forestry industry. As the only Forstmann here in the Hohe Haus – as the only practicing Forstmann! – I am concerned that the forest plays a major role in the issue of energy supply, energy security. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]] This is about security of supply, and the three pillars are: Energy saving, efficiency and even renewable energy. In concrete terms, we really want more bioheat, more electricity from renewable energy and more biofuels. This is definitely to be implemented, and these are many years of demands from our biomass paper Dr. Kopetz, which are targets from the biomass association. The growth of the Austrian forest allows more biomass to be used. So we can also achieve a doubling of biomass use through wood mobilization. This means that the millions of fixed meters that are needed – some 5 million by the year 2010 – can also be applied through increased use. Here, of course, further education and training around the forestry industry, around the management of the Austrian forest, is a very special focus. Finally, I should like to ask everyone to take this common approach to mobilising this green resource reserve with us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e25395	The next item is the speech by Mr Brosz. Desirable time: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e25416	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! First of all, a general word. I have already asked myself whether this request will come back to us again, which has really arrived, the government programme, for decision-making here in the National Council. Mr Cap has just come in, and that is a good thing. I would ask you to stop at least from saying to the honourable Member at the beginning of the legislative period as a government: Here, program, 167 pages. We want your votes, four years, there will no longer be negotiations in Parliament, there is what has to be done inside. . We would have hoped that you would do otherwise, in other words, in the style of Question Parliamentaryism, and that the question of what a role the government has and which Members have, is of importance to you. I don't know if it was your idea. [[towards SPÖ]] I suppose it was the ÖVP's idea, because it's always been the last time. That's actually an unsitting thing. There are freely elected Members here – including the government parties, hopefully – who should at least agree on the broad guidelines, but in every detail that is decided here to say already: That's what we're doing, we think it's inappropriate. This should no longer be done in future governments. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Unfortunately, the Minister for Education is no longer here. I find the access very unconventional, which has been chosen here, that someone does not come from the education sector, but from the enterprise sector. This may not be so bad in the field of education. If you look at how this house has been run in recent years, you have to say that corporate culture cannot do badly. [[Abg. Grandruck: Well, well, well!]] A call from Großruck was to be expected. One can be of a shared opinion on the question of what Mrs Gehrer has done, but whoever claims that she has promoted the innovation power of this House, has not really recognized reality, I believe. So introduce something new here, may open things up as well. What the Minister of Education said in the first few days in general is also to be supported in many areas. Only then will it be tight; I have listened exactly. It has meant that she has promised to do so very quickly. I would really trust her personally, the point is only: It has to implement a government agreement which contains very little, in particular, in the field of education. These €200 million, which are in the final stage for the school sector: If you look more closely, you can see that behind it is: 2007 € 35 million additional expenditure, 160 next year. And if you look at what's actually out of the cost, only with a single measure, when you reduce your schooling maximums, you could have been at least as fair and you could write in: There won't be anything in the area of higher schools, there's nothing in there. The calculation of about €200 million for compulsory schools will generally vote. That's exactly the amount inside is in final development. Say: If one implements this measure, all that has been agreed on in the education sector, in the school sector, in the budget has already been done. We are not talking about pre-school measures, which are no longer in the substance. There's only more in there for this to be expanded. The commitment could have been discussed anyway. The right to afternoon care does not appear in the Government Convention. The financing of the alternative schools is an objective within which I consent, however: Where's the cover? And the question also: Where will it come from? And what doesn't happen at all – that has already surprised me – is the question of a real expansion among the support teachers. This has not had anything to do with the maximum number of students, that would have been additional. That is no longer the case, and everywhere in the back, it is said: if the funding is secured. And if you've listened to Minister of Finance Molterer, you can imagine how the funding will look like: They will simply and simply not exist in these areas. So: The words that the Minister of Education has found so far are a sign that is different from the words of Minister Gehrer – that is what she has agreed to. We consider the possibility of breaking out of this corset to be very limited. In this respect, we will see how the balance sheet looks after four years. Whether more will come out than headlines that are now in the government agreement, we will see that first.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e25464	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek's next speech. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e25485	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! I think it's time for a women's input to the House once again. It's time for us to discuss together what it's all about. It is time to say once again that a new era of women's policy is beginning. I am deeply convinced that this government programme is going a little further on the situation of women. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: We've been waiting for you!]] Mr Scheibner, if you don't know what it's all about, I'll tell you. [[Abg. Scheibner: We already know that!]] It is about the fair redistribution of work, Mr President. It is about paid and unpaid work between men and women. It is absolutely not to be seen when both partners, the partner, work that one does not share the work at home. [[Abg. Scheibner: We already know your speeches!]] So: We need to talk about unpaid work again. We will certainly do that with this Minister of Women, and you may learn something about it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is a fair distribution of income, Mr Scheibner. Compensating income differences is a major goal of this federal government. And we will achieve it in this legislative period that we will reduce income scarcity – I guarantee this to you, my colleague. [[Abg. Scheibner: You give your minister a backpack! I don't think she's right!]] And it's about the same distribution of power. If we have said before the election that Social Democracy has said, half of the members of the government will be female: We've implemented it! The ÖVP did not succeed, but at least we have 40 percent female government members on the government bank, and that's the best number we've ever had in this house. And it is a question of listening to women experiencing the conflicts of interest and the barriers that are being established for them, and that we are brightly hearing – including you from the FPÖ, also you from the BZÖ and all the others who are working here in this House – Mr. Grossruck, especially you – that we are hearing and recognize what the women in this country expect from us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Großruck]] [[Abg. Grossruck: Actual correction! I sucked yesterday and washed dishes!]] And let yourself be said: Women's policy is also men's business! I already see some progressives sitting behind me, and I still see a few sitting in front of me who still have a lot to learn about this. One of the progressives – he is not in the hall right now – is the Minister of Science, who said a year ago on the basis of the registered partnerships that he did not at all understand why homosexual couples should not be equal. That is why, I think, there is still a lot possible here, and I think we will achieve a lot more here too. Minister of Women Doris Bures has mentioned the main key points, and you will still hear them from me many times. You can rely on that, ladies and gentlemen! I'll tell you: On the one hand, women who have been emancipated sit on the one hand, all feminists, and I wish and hope that some of the gentlemen here in this room do not have to spell out feminism before they understand it, but take feminism as what it is, namely, the natural fights for women's rights and the achievement of women's rights. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And if Doris Bures has said she wants to improve the life situation of women over the next four years, you should all help, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e25612	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Honey. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e25634	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Honourable Members! Suppose your water thermals, your boiler is broken, and your landlord offers you to take over the costs for it. But in return, you have to commit yourself to doing housekeeping during the five-week holiday of the housemaster. I don't think anyone here would say in the hall, that's a good deal. However, I do not believe that this could really be a good deal, which you provide for with your study fees replacement service regulations. Mr Broukal! I'm almost grateful for your speech. That's gonna be a little late, 'cause you're really funny. They forget the negotiations on tuition fees and try to somehow connect us with them. You forgot! I know this old political tactic: If you make mistakes yourself, if you have weaknesses, you try to distract by attacking someone else. We all know this. You can do that, too, and we can deal with it if you sell us for stupid. But I think it is a massive tribute to the thousands of students who have been protesting against these regulations in the last few days, which you have presented to us as a great throw. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But actually I wanted to speak with the future... – No, that was my deep conviction. [[Abg. Broukal: That was the exercise of duty now, so to speak, gell?]] If you're blaming us: I come from student policy, and I have fought against tuition fees from the very beginning. And not a tiny second of my life, I had a different position. Mr. Broukal! You don't need to explain anything to me. On the workers' affairs, the Ministry of Labour. – What do we have to expect? There is one thing that comes first of all into the eye, namely: The Ministry of Labour is actually the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour and also an ÖVP resort. [[Call the ÖVP: Something completely “new”!]] – Unfortunately not. But I think you agree with me that Minister Bartenstein, who is, above all, very wealthy, rich Minister Bartenstein, is not necessarily the champion of stronger workers' rights, for improving the situation of workers. But he doesn't have to, because there's now a State Secretariat. And there is Mrs. Christine Marek, the Secretary of State, from which we could expect more. Because what am I reading about Christine Marek's political motto on her homepage? – I know it’s late, but please try to follow this motto in its entire pikanery again. It comes from George Bernard Shaw, but Mrs Marek uses this motto; I quote: “You always blame the conditions for what you are. I don't believe in the conditions. Those who move forward in the world go and search for the conditions they want. And if they can't find her, they'll get her themselves." Ladies and gentlemen, and that from the State Secretary for Labour! What people who are unemployed and unemployed need to think about it, I do not want to do that any more. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The SPÖ explains to us that this is not a problem if we have a Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour. I think that is shortsighted, and I am very surprised by the 120-year experience of social democracy. Reality is: Under a social democratic leadership, the framework conditions for self-employed employment will be made within the meaning of entrepreneurship interests. And don't misunderstand me: Entrepreneurs-Interesting is all right, but please where it belongs, and they simply don't belong to the Ministry of Labour.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e25714	Mr Fuhrmann. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the 4 minutes welcome. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e25736	Thank you, Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Although the hour has already advanced, I would nevertheless like to comment on a very important chapter in this government programme, namely the Youth Chapter. We all know that young people in this country – and I would like to say that honestly – are not necessarily positive from the beginning. But now, after a government program is in place and we also know that young people are not only being guided emotionally, but also critically questioning: What do parties stand for?, especially: What are governments for?, one must subsume under the rule that this government programme, and above all what the youth chapter also offers, is a very, very convincing one: Firstly, it gives much space to youth policy, and secondly, it will make really important decisions for the future. And you can't forget one thing: The decisions that policy is making today are decisions that will apply to the generation of tomorrow. That is, young people are those who are affected by it and whose future we shape today. I believe that the most important thing in this government programme is that sustainable decisions are made, that there will be progress in this country and that there will not be a standstill or any setback. We all know that children and young people are the most important potential that this country has, and therefore, on the one hand, there is a need for an important package of measures to protect and, on the other hand, important framework conditions for promoting children and young people as much as possible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our goal must be that children and young people in Austria, in this beautiful Austria, can also develop freely and optimally. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] In recent years, there have been many measures that have made progress for young people. I would like to remind you of the reduction in civil service, the improvements in the cost of food. I would like to remind you of the reduction in the presence of the service, and I would also like to stress that this government programme sets out the reduction of the presence of the service by law, and in the future it will not only be a direction of the Minister. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true! That has already been decided, Mrs Colleague.]] That's now set up by law. The State Treaty on Youth, which was concluded with the pension reform during the last legislative period, is also being continued. Sustainable policy is in the foreground, and that is why there is also a set of measures on youth employment, which my colleague from SPÖ has already explained. In addition, many other important measures are set out in the government programme, such as: anchoring children's rights in the Constitution, establishing uniform regulations in the field of youth protection – I think this is particularly important when it comes to ensuring equal rights for young people across Austria, especially in times of increasing mobility – and last but not least, I personally fought hard to reduce the electoral age to 16 years. I believe that this is an important and correct step, and I am personally very glad that it was possible to write this in the government programme in a specified manner. This all the more means that politics has the task of focusing on young people and making offers to them. I believe that with this government programme, we have managed not only to establish political records, but also concrete measures. [[Abg. May. Stadler: “Not just flattites! ”]] I am looking forward to a good cooperation, Mrs Minister, and I wish you all the best for the start! We will also support you. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A good slide! Happy Easter and Merry Christmas!]] I also invite the opposition parties to participate in the youth programme. It would be nice if we could adopt the measures set out here, as many as possible, with four-party applications. Because the youth in Austria must be worth it all to us!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e25821	Mr Pirklhuber has now come to speak. 4 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e25871	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mrs Fuhrmann, before dealing with the issue and part of the agricultural chapter and the food safety of the government programme, one more word on your speech. I somehow have the impression that you have very well analyzed this, and have only one limitation: They said, “not just plattites. ” – I would think that “only” could at times, in some parts at least, you really do right. This is also the big question today, ladies and gentlemen, if you follow this programme and the discussion, which the representatives of the government groups give of themselves here. On the one hand, Mr Grillitsch: The manuscript of the ÖVP has prevailed. I also recall colleagues Cap who are always talking about the few red points, sprayers, traces that should be inside. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] Well, I find this exciting, from the point of view of the plattites that Mrs Fuhrmann has referred to. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fuhrmann.]] It is always true that there is actually a convoy of words, of words which can be interpreted completely differently, ladies and gentlemen. That's what we've heard all day. I am very excited about how this will be done during the concrete detailed negotiations on the individual real projects in the discussion and also in the committees. One thing I find interesting and exciting, namely the title of today's government statement: “Man in the centre”. “Man in the centre” is quite a perspective that could provide a new direction. It was precisely about really putting people at the centre of politics again, and I have so far had to miss most of this in the speeches. Above all, the interpretation of how this “human is at the centre” is very interesting. Vice chancellor Molterer made it very clear, he said: The value of a human being is also measured by what work he has. [[Abg. Großruck: “Self value” he said!]] – This was rightly criticised by Mr Hofer of FPÖ. But I also have to tell him: If he wants to speak the word to humanism, he should also say: Regardless of race, nation and so on, human rights apply; this applies to every human being, and that is a very central point. This is a very restrictive view of Mr Vice-Chancellor. Molterer also noted: We must continue deregulating. – An old keyword of neoliberal discourse; that is the continuation of the turnaround! This is how Mr. Vice-Chancellor sees it, which is his vision of a black and red agreement. [[Abg. Großruck: You wanted to talk about agriculture!]] Yes, I come to agriculture! This is quite rapid, because Mr Erich Haider, the head of state of Upper Austria – and this can also be said stunned and clearly – has sacrificed the agricultural policy here, in so far as he has been allowed to move over the table. He was the first negotiator of the SPÖ who explained that everything was palletti. When you look at the topics, ladies and gentlemen: Not even a whole set of organic farming occurs in this government agreement! Let alone something about a package of measures, concrete budgetary coverage, an offensive strategy for more food safety, a reduction in the use of pesticides in Austrian agriculture – only as examples. The Public Agriculture Programme, which is currently being negotiated in Brussels, has continued to be implemented on the basis of a special directive – no legal certainty, Mr Cap, no real redefinition or social orientation in the agricultural policy! You've been talking about it all the time: In agriculture, there is the grain of the ÖVP, which is actually disassembled. – Nothing implemented, no word from a new orientation! Ladies and gentlemen! So that's going to be exciting when it's really going on. You can be sure that we will massively call for social and environmental change in all these debates, both in the committees and also in the budget debates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e25935	Mr Gaál has now come to speak. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e25984	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! It was Mr Donabauer, I think, who said: Austria is a safe country. - Yeah, that's right. That is what we have been since the 1980s and 1990s, and after these seven years we are still. We will try to keep it that way, although the security challenges have become more complex and comprehensive. Therefore, our policy focuses on the goal of finding a comprehensive solution to citizens' security. In the chapter ‘External Security and Defence’, all these points and intentions that we need to carry out dynamically, together with the recommendations of the Federal Army Reform Commission, are set out here, so that we will continue with Platter and Darabos, the ‘Bundesheer 2010’, which we have started together with Herbert Scheibner. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why He Civil Service...!]] Because Mr Darabos has already been mentioned today, ladies and gentlemen: I am convinced that Norbert Darabos is an ally of the Austrian federal army and will perform his great tasks with great joy, with Elan and with competence. He has already clearly and clearly stated in his office that the Austrian Federal Army is a guarantee for military national defence, for security policy, to which he fully acknowledges himself. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The only one, he even said!]] He also knows what our German army is doing in the event of disaster at home and abroad and that it is also on the road in the context of the assistance mission to the service of security. He will be taking this successful path, which we are trying to go here, at the very top with us, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The SPÖ is committed to maintaining air sovereignty in the form of active and passive airspace surveillance, which I have repeatedly spoken about and as it is now set out in the government programme. [[Deconstratetive applause with BZÖ]] If we want to take account of the new security challenges, if we want to remain a predictable partner in Europe, we must make greater efforts to create a modern, ready-to-use, forward-looking federal army with slim structures, especially in the higher levels of administration and management. The goal must be to bring the federal army to face the threats and challenges of the 21st century. To prepare it for these international tasks by the century. Ladies and gentlemen! We want to go this way together. It is about an efficient, credible security policy! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Bravo! That would be a defense minister!]] Over the next few years, major challenges will come to the Austrian federal army, and the steps set out in the government programme will provide a solid basis for us to meet the challenges in the interests and for the benefit of the security of Austria. Take this common path with us!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e26079	The next item is the speech by Mrs Zwerschitz. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e26100	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister! Dear Members! As a youth speaker, it was my particular concern to look at the government programme from a youth perspective. This youth check for all government projects is a very exciting thing, even if one “checks” the government program. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] I'm sorry that I can only briefly address all these important issues now; it's just too many to talk about for a long time. But I will focus very briefly on different priorities. Reduction of compulsory military service to six months: Well, that's not really something new. This is necessary for a long time. Childcare: It is nice that the childcare allowance has now changed and that there is the possibility of getting it increased in a shorter period of time. Wherever the necessary childcare places we will need so that the mothers can go to work, we will see. There is no legal right to all day schools or afternoon care. There is this mutual termination option in teaching, which can mean that in the future apprentices become unemployed after the first year of teaching, the next apprentice will be in this firm again for a year, and companies may thus be able to save themselves a worker who would have to pay them full-time. Youth protection will not be a federal law again. Very interesting is the point “protection from alcohol, drug abuse and violence. ” “violent” is exciting in so far as it appears to be only taking place in media or is also seen as a problem of computer games, but not as a holistic concept. In drug policy, we have once again failed to include modern experience in modern knowledge. Unfortunately, the substitution regulation will not be revised as it looks, although we would give you the warmest heart. She's probably not feasible. It's going to be quite exciting with alcohol abuse, because – you shouldn't believe it – alcohol abuse is a purely youth problem in Austria under this government programme. That, I think, is already a relatively strong expression, and I am very surprised that the government partners did not even come to the idea that the alcohol problem might not stop at 18. [[Cheerfulness at the BZÖ.]] The education guarantee is a toothless instrument. There is no extension of higher and middle secondary schools, there is no possibility of a free compulsory schooling. Youth employment: The redistribution of non-training training establishments to apprenticeship training establishments does not take place. We have discussed the study fees sufficiently. Unequalled cheap prices for public transport: Yes, great – just the public must also drive, so that young people can really perceive both work and culture. However, I love children's rights in the constitution and electoral age reduction. I would particularly like to address this, because it is my concern, and I would like to quote the following: "The two government parties are seeking dialogue with all parties represented in Parliament on the basis of the government programme. This also means that the proposals will be dealt with in a factual and constructive manner and that, if both parties agree, a decision will be taken.” I'm very glad. – I have already submitted the requests for the constitutional recognition of children's rights and the reduction of the electoral age. I would be very pleased to work together with you in the next few months on a realization. We will see whether there has really been a change in cooperation with the opposition parties. Thank you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[23:04]] [[23:04:11]] Correction of the outcome of the vote
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e26190	Ladies and gentlemen! I declare that the outcome of the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Courts, colleagues and colleagues on social justice for Austria's students by abolishing the study contributions, introduced in the course of the debate on the urgent question, have been announced as follows: [[S. 185]] Votes cast: 173; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 42, No votes: 131. The result is correct: Votes cast 174; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 42, ‘No’ votes: 132. This result will be taken into account in both the official and the stenographic protocols. I am trying to take note of this. The next speaker is Mr Deputie's friend. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e26247	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! We of the People's Party, with the election term "give security, create work, act socially", went into the election campaign for the National Council election and thus into a new period. I am sure that we have succeeded in implementing this government programme to a large extent. The government has presented an ambitious programme to us today. This programme includes a positive policy for the future, which is particularly important to me as a rural Member and thus as a representative of the rural area. The government programme is a good result for rural and rural families. The agricultural structure in Austria places special demands on agricultural policy. Most of the farms, 61 percent, manage less than 20 hectares of cultural land; in addition, a large number of miners have to struggle with additional difficulties. Of almost 200 000 farms, 42 percent are held in the main acquisition and 54 percent in the secondary acquisition, and especially in the secondary farming sector, but also in total, it is found that the farms are particularly exposed to enormous market pressure. The task of the Austrian agricultural policy is now to ensure farmers the basis for a functioning agricultural policy, i.e. their livelihood. Our Austrian path is that of a farming and natural agriculture. Here we are particularly required, ladies and gentlemen, so that we can stand on international markets. The most important step is to ensure the rural development programme and its implementation for Austria. We have secured the Green Pact of Austrian agriculture for the entire funding period by 2013, and this programme is about the natural management and the investment made in agriculture. Although recently threatened with massive cuts, Austria has been able to increase its funding for rural development to 3.9 billion for the next seven years. The Minister for Agriculture Josef Pröll has succeeded in ensuring this co-financing in the future. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, Federal Minister Pröll is simply the guarantee that the concerns of Austrian farmers in the EU are also excellent. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The rural family farms need planning and legal certainty. In future, regardless of their size and production direction, all enterprises will be able to operate equally and to share income development in a fair manner. In addition to market revenues, these include direct payments. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The income of Austrian farmers depends partly on the political situation in the country. This very often leads to uncertainty. I am glad that farmers can be sure for the next four years that a policy has been ensured in their sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e26298	The next item is Mrs Hradecsni's speech. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e26320	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I am not telling you anything new when I tell you that in the globalised world of consumer protection, increasing importance is gaining. In order to meet this challenge, policy must create the appropriate framework conditions. Unfortunately, the new Federal Minister for Social Affairs, Generations and Consumer Protection did not even mention the word “consumer protection”. I see that 6 minutes are not too long, but it is already very pressing that the issue of consumer protection will not have a special significance in your future political work – a situation that will quite disappointed me. As from an up-to-date answer to the question from the 12th century. Years of the Federal Minister for Social Affairs, Generations and Consumer Protection of the past legislative period, Mrs Haubner, have been told that the financial resources of the Consumer Protection Section are so scarce that they appeared to be in a Commission's position as a consumer protection area at ministerial level and the responsibility of the Federal Labour Chamber or the Consumer Information Association was left to them. It is true that the consumer protection institutions do excellent work. This should not mean, however, that the policy can escape its responsibility. On the contrary! Policy has the task, also based on the recommendations of the consumer protection institutions, the appropriate framework conditions... – thank you! – I somehow have a frog in my neck – to ensure the efficient protection of consumers. [[Abg. Big Truck: Take a swallow of water!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Slow down!]] I expect more commitment in this area from the current Federal Minister for Social Affairs and Consumer Protection, but as my colleague Sabine Mandaks has said: Without money, the best commitment is useless. In the present government agreement there is some good approach, but unfortunately there are also some instigating or cryptic culprits. However, what I lack is the recasting of consumer protection rights, the establishment of a Consumer Protection Council, improvements in the right of withdrawal and much more. However, the few tasks mentioned are not feasible, as has been said, without the appropriate financial coverage. As we are currently looking forward to, that is, to look at this budget path in the Annex, there is also no increase in budgetary resources for consumer protection. However, in order to be able to work efficiently and above all preventively, consumer work needs more public resources. We always get, and especially today that was the case again, to hear something about our brilliant pioneering role in so many areas. Unfortunately, this is not the case in the field of consumer protection. For example, in Germany the triple per capita per year, in the UK even the tenfold of our consumer labour budget is made available. You should not forget that every citizen and every citizen is also a consumer and a consumer, and it would be a mistake to neglect this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e26372	The next speaker is Mr Zach. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e26394	Mr President. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Is the Heidi gone?]] Ladies and gentlemen! If there's something I'm looking forward to this big coalition, it's that it prevented a right coalition. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Eder.]] Although a large coalition is not a wish result for a liberal, it is still better than an interior minister Westenthaler or a defense minister Strache. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In the past, of course, a large coalition has often been associated with the appearances of party abuse or a degenerated parliament, but if you look at the last years since 2000, this has been overshadowed. [[Abg. Großruck: We also have a dream!]] What I wish for, and this has already been mentioned in the coalition programme, is the implementation of the ideas of strengthening the individual Members' rights and opposition, and I hope that the social-democratic colleagues in this area will also comply with what they have promised. In this context, I should like to thank the colleagues of the Socialist Group. I believe that we are living clearly on how an independent representative, a liberal, can still have freedoms, although this is not actually stated in the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: A winner of this!]] To my general line: I shall make this clear, and where necessary, where I consider important issues to be liberal, and I shall vote accordingly. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: “SPÖ” stands by your name!]] Dear Mr Westenthaler! Your political unculture is thank God no longer here, but at least only there. [[the speaker points towards the government bank]] [[The speaker points to deputies of the BZÖ.]] [[Congratulations on representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! On the subject of tuition fees: Today I have agreed to the application for tuition fees, but I did not do so because I have study fees or a form of co-financing... [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] It seems to you that it is such a nuisance that I am here as a liberal in Parliament that you deal with me in such a way. [[towards FPÖ and BZÖ]] Thank you for having me first speech. For tuition fees: I voted against the tuition fees today, because I believe that what is offered at universities is unacceptable and that there is no money to demand – Minister Hahn is no longer here! – as this shows, for example, a look at the nursing sciences, where there is a professor for a thousand students. That's not even worth a euro! I could say a few things now, for example on the subject of basic security. I am concerned that the issue of basic security has been brought into the political debate. The minimum guarantee is not what I imagine to be a liberal. However, if Mr Amon – who is no longer here today – has been very excited about the unconditional basic income, then I would like to remind you already – I think Mr Amon is coming from Styria, therefore a look at the “Steirer” for example – that also the Styrian ÖVP calls for an unconditional basic income based on a citizen’s money of €800. So you should join together a little within the Styrian ÖVP and exchange. Finally, I would like to say: They will have my support wherever it is about promoting and expanding the individual's economic and social freedom when it comes to strengthening fundamental rights and human rights and European identity. There you will have me as a partner in the matter. But there, where this is not the case, it is especially with regard to issues such as the equality of the different communities of life, when it comes to fighting for a human rights law on asylum and the right of foreigners, when it comes to the departure of the State of the Chamber for a liberal trade order and the release of shop opening times, there you will have a critical liberal vote. I wish the Federal Government a happy hand in their work and great success. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: And a long life!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e26552	The next speaker is Mr Wöginger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e26573	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! Mr Zach! One can just be glad that not all who belong to the SPÖ club have negotiated, otherwise we should have considered the story again. [[Congratulations and cheerfulness with representatives of the ÖVP as well as with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This government programme is sustainable and forward-looking and has truly earned more than the reports and headlines of tomorrow's daily newspapers, which announce that the Federal Chancellor wants to give additional lessons in schools. This is certainly not the core statement of this government programme. [[Abg. Street: 80 €!]] It is particularly important to me today, as a representative of the Austrian People's Party, to mention that this federal government can build on a good, solid basis in recent years – and I would like to stress that. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Austria stands very well, ladies and gentlemen! We have ordered finances and a good development in the budget, Austria is a very good place of work and business, we are among the safest countries in the world and have one of the best health and social systems. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, necessary and important steps contained in this government programme can also be implemented. I have been dealing with the government programme in the last few days and compared it with the demands and objectives I had as a Member of Parliament at the last election. And I've found a lot of agreement. [[Abg. That's what I think!]] My main objective was to preserve and create jobs by further developing the infrastructure and educational facilities in the Inn quarter. And from pages 47 to 55 in the government programme, we find “work market & working world” with a total of nine very important points, especially youth employment, extension of the Blum bonus by mid 2008, the further expansion of lifelong learning, the reorganisation – a very important issue – of the age-part-time scheme, important measures for an active labour market policy or the social protection of atypical workers and self-employed. Further expansion of infrastructure and educational facilities: We now have in the government program plus € 10 billion for rail and road. I would also like to ask the government, especially the new Minister for Infrastructure, who is sitting on the bank again: In the Inn district, we have planned the expansion and renovation of the A8, the Innkreis Autobahn from 2008, and as a Member of Parliament, I also call for this to be respected. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Plus € 200 million for education is also provided in the programme. Other three points – and I have not promised as much as some other Members here in this House, I have limited myself to a few specific things, and they are also easier to comply with: First: Pensions. 45 years are enough – this regulation has been established – as well as the revision of the heavy work and disability pension – we also find this in the government programme. Secondly, Better legal framework for volunteers. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: In the Inn Quarter!]] – The strengthening and support of voluntary engagement is explicitly mentioned in the government programme. And the third point of me was: Further relief from families. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] The family policy measures can be found from page 129, among other things – be careful, Mr Kogler! – increasing family support and increasing income limits for the multiple-child supplement. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: In the Inn Quarter!]] I am also assuming, and I am already stressing this here, that the announced tax reform includes the tax-free minimum for family members as well as the deductibility of child care costs. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out a point I have not found in the programme, which is the voluntary social year. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes, exactly!]] We need a legal framework here in line with the German model or the Civil Service Act. And that is my demand for you, Mr. Sozialminister Buchinger, for many young people, that we work together to find a solution here. Overall, the black and red government programme is a very successful work, and we MEPs will ensure that it is implemented here in the House in the sense of the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e26690	The next speaker was Mr Ddr. Decliner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e26711	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! I have looked at the educational programme in a short look at what PISA has given us in this direction in recommendations and you will notice if you can still pay attention to the subject: There's a lot of things inside, what's been recommended here. The central points: It is very early to start promoting – early promotion will certainly be greatly expanded, school entry improved, differentiated education where one is better focused on the individual child than before, education standards, so that system services can also be measured and assessed as such, the expansion of participation is a very important topic, career choice for young people aged 12, 13 to 16 years with new instruments, a priority in the field of lifelong learning – much has already been said – up to the employment and social legislation of adult education. You are right, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties, if you say: The limits will be in funding. I don't hide that I would have wanted more money for these projects. I do not share the opinion of Mr Wöginger, who said that we had found a good budget, but unfortunately we must note that the proportion of education and science has fallen from 6 percent to 5.5 percent in the meantime and that we should try to achieve this share again. But this will be a common concern, and we will join forces with the new Federal Minister Claudia Schmied and colleague Amon, but also with the education speakers Dieter Brosz, Mag. Allow Hauser and Ursula Haubner to implement as much of this program as possible with you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e26757	The next speaker is Mr Grossruck. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e26778	Ladies and gentlemen at the SPÖ, we are now in the coalition; please do not call an unqualified call, gal! [[Cheerfulness at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! If I look at the government programme in this way, it shows a continuity between the government before and the coming. You have to say that. It is not a break, it is a continuation of the success story, and we are pleased that the Social Democrats, too, are going this line with us, because we have proved that Austria has done well with it. According to all figures, we are almost world champions, for example, when we compare exports, in economic growth and so on. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] That is why I do not understand the criticism, ladies and gentlemen, especially the Greens who are taking the government programme and saying: There are only plattites in there, or almost, there are only general things in it, you should, you could, you should! Mr Pirklhuber goes out and tells everyone seriously that he has not read a word about organic farming at all in the government programme. Mr. Pirklhuber – he's not here, maybe he's in the canteen so he can hear it – please read page 69. There it is quite clear: “Implementation of Green Pact”. In the final sentence: ‘The bio-agricultural sector is to be expanded in the future.’ And organic farming means as much to me as organic farming. That's a semantic flea finder, that's all! [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's it! That's right!]] So there are very concrete approaches in this government programme. I am also particularly pleased that on the next pages, with regard to energy efficiency, renewable energy, there is also an essential requirement, namely the renewal of apartments, the thermal renovation of apartments inside. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am particularly grateful to all negotiators for having succeeded in anchoring these very important things, because... [[Abg. Dr. Moser: But this is not mandatory!]] Mrs Moser! You probably read it. On page 76 it reads: ‘Increasing the recovery rate in residential construction, this will enable the thermal renovation of all post-war buildings (1950 – 1980) to be made possible by 2020’. I'll give you something to do with this and I'll say, Maybe we'll take pre-war buildings too, if you're satisfied with that, right? This is – and there are studies and calculations to do so – one of the most efficient measures to reduce emissions in order to achieve the Kyoto target, and it is also a social measure, Mrs Moser, not only ecologically, not only economicly, but also socially, for we know that it is not the cost of financing, which is the most expensive in housing and housing, but it is the operating costs, and this, of course, includes the cost of energy. And the government has concrete – specifically, read it through! – an ambitious programme in order to reduce these costs, with the advantage of creating thousands of jobs, thereby promoting tens of thousands of rural businesses. If we succeed in implementing this already on track model, then I think we've made a big throw. I am very pleased, even as a residential speaker. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll finish. Tomorrow's a big demonstration again, it's supposed to be. We are already accustomed to demonstration in government formations, not true, we experienced this in 2000, we are now experiencing it again: Governments are different, only the demonstrators are the same. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And I would like to bring a four-and-a-half liner, ladies and gentlemen: Today it is already normal to protest every time and that the uprising is tried when a government praises. Although others now rule – the same are the ones that demonstrate. Ladies and gentlemen, you may be marching tomorrow. [[towards SPÖ]] – I don’t believe it. Last time you marched, probably not tomorrow.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e26859	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muttons. I'll put the watch on the desired 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e26881	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I would like to address the question: What does the great coalition for art and culture mean? This is a question that is often asked, not only in the cultural pages of the newspapers. In addition to numerous positive reactions, there are of course also concerns of the opposition. So let me say the following: The fact that responsibility for art, culture and education has been concentrated in a house I consider to be a significant improvement in relation to the situation so far. Of course, it would have been interesting to combine all cultural agendas, including the culture and affairs of the information society, in one place, but the now negotiated unity of art, culture and education in a ministry has charm and can also indicate very good historical experiences. For the first time in ten years contemporary and museum art has been under a political roof. The most important thing, ladies and gentlemen, is: Art and culture will once again have a seat and an equal voice in the Council of Ministers and at EU level. Mrs. Schmied will be this new voice. I wish you much joy, strength and tenacity for this task. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I do not wish I had wished as a cultural speaker that there were clearly more concrete measures in the government programme than in the end there were, but it is also a fact that this programme represents a compromise, namely the common denominator, which could be negotiated between two parties with, in part, very different ideas. But the cultural part of the Government Declaration is a good and well-founded basis, which also allows a lot of development. Development will also be necessary, activities will be necessary because there are many open problems. There is a need for action in museum policy, in the area of social security for artists, in questions of funding to mention just a few points. It is also a great concern for us that, as far as possible, all people get a direct and direct connection to culture. Cultural participation, but also cultural education are the key elements. In its proposal on lifelong learning, the EU has defined cultural education as a key competence. Over the next few years, we should put topics such as cultural education in the knowledge society, the situation of artists and cultural makers, their working conditions, their production conditions in the foreground of our work, but also cultural diversity in the light of globalisation. Ladies and gentlemen! We look forward to meeting the cultural programme with life. This will be an exciting and interesting task for the Minister, but it will also be a task that we Parliamentarians and parliamentarians are very happy to undertake. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e26935	The next speaker was Mr Eßl. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e26956	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Working together for Austria – that is the goal of this federal government, and it starts from a strong basis. Austria is well standing, and yet there are efforts to get even better. The strengthening of Austria's economic location, achieving full employment, securing and creating jobs are ambitious projects of this new government. A comprehensive catalogue of measures is set out in the government programme. A 400 million euro package is available for this purpose. For Austria and in particular, of course, also for our state of Salzburg, where I come from, but for example, the 2014 Olympics is also an important project that will bring sports and economic impulses. But I would also like to remind you of a special concern for my home district. Minister Platter has promised the survival of Kaserne Tamsweg as a Garnison site beyond 2010. I also call on the new Minister of Defence Darabos to stand for this guarantee and make a clear commitment to it. Jobs in rural areas – and this includes these barracks – are an important issue. It is also important to ensure that jobs in agriculture and in the downstream and downstream areas are safeguarded accordingly. First of all: I'm glad the Green Pact is out of dispute. It is clear to me that payments made here to farmers are not gifts, but are based on the principle of performance and consideration and are made at the appropriate level. Secondly, Federal Minister Sepp Pröll has already launched an export offensive in recent years to relieve the markets. With new initiatives provided for in the programme, I believe that good foundations have been created to ensure that our farmers can generate income in the future and thus secure jobs. In order to safeguard our rural family farms, however, there is also an improvement in the social criteria. The requirement to reduce the age limit for occupational protection in rural families to 50 years of age is enshrined in the government programme and I call for rapid implementation. But I am also glad – and I am quite sure, ladies and gentlemen – that not everything that has been negotiated can also be found in the programme. If this side of the government parties, called on the current Social Minister to raise the pension contributions for the economy by a third and for farmers by 50 per cent, then I will continue to support myself with all the vehemence in the future, and I am glad that this has not been achieved. [[the speaker looks towards the SPÖ delegates]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Overall, I believe, this government programme is a good programme for the future opportunities of farmers, it is a good programme for the quality of life of our citizens, and it is a good programme for Austria and for the people of our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e27027	The next speaker was Mr Jarolim. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e27048	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that there can be a relatively out of the question: that the judicial policy of the last legislative period was relatively strongly influenced by irrationality and that, in the light of the new judicial programme – as we are very grateful to all those who have contributed to it – we can achieve a judicial policy that follows international development. I am also very happy when we now have an appointed expert with the Minister of Justice, who comes from European law, who also knows the debates in the European Parliament on the most diverse issues, and I hope that we will find, in particular, in connection with the development of partnership, family law, the link to legal development in Europe. Unfortunately, because of the relatively strong position of the then President of the National Council, but also of the former Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, there was a certain standstill. I should also like to congratulate the Minister of Justice for the excellent selection of the Chief of Cabinet. With Albin Dear, she has brought an internationally renowned expert into her team. I believe that we can do considerable work in the area of justice as a whole. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] A central point in the programme is further training in the field of justice. This is true for judges, but also for non-judicial staff, because it is necessary to enforce fundamental legal thinking throughout justice. A new right of maintenance is to be introduced, which is more efficient for children in particular, because it will be directly dependent on those administrative authorities which also have the corresponding financial indicators of each maintenance obligation so that immediate decisions can be made. The youth jurisdiction, which has been so severely neglected – symbolically by the closure of the Jugendgerichtshof – should, together, be thanks to the ÖVP negotiating team that a focus is laid on this issue – to rebuild because of the fact that social policy is, of course, the best policy against crime, and the prevention of relapse means taking care of the potential perpetrators right from the start, so that the young people who are on their way to the crime – mostly on the basis of the social conditions – are prevented. Here every investment is right, here every investment is right, and I believe that we will do a good judicial work as a whole through this manuscript. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e27099	The next speaker is Mr Einwallner. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e27121	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! As a young Member of Parliament, I do not give up my joy at this government programme because it contains substantial long-term youth political demands, such as the redistribution of the life-earning curve and many other things that should be mentioned. Mrs Grossmann, I agree with you that there are a lot of youth policy in there, and I say to you that I am also sorry that this study fee debate is now exaggerating everything. But what youth organization is demonstrating against this government programme? It's not us, I say now. So please also do communication work in your own ranks. However, I would also like to talk about two other parts, which are very important for young people, which are the areas of infrastructure and sport. With the infrastructure, 10.5 billion € are earmarked for investments in road and rail. That's a lot, that's investment in the future, investment for the youth of this country if you want to have it that way. And here – I have to say that as a steirer – I am delighted by the commitment of Mr. Minister to the Koralm Tunnel. This also includes the Semmering Base Tunnel, because the Semmering Base Tunnel and the Koralm Railway have to be seen as a whole. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Does Erwin Pröll know that too?]] Coming from the 6H constituency, I have to say about infrastructure measures concerning road – we have already heard today, the gap is so important – that the gap between S 36 and S 37, i.e. the full expansion in the area of Jüdenburg and Friesach, is also very important to me. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But also sport, I think, is an essential area in which you can do a lot, also for children and for young people. On the one hand, it is about sport as a preventive pillar for the health sector, but on the other hand also about sport as a useful leisure activity in the club or in broadband sports and in addition to sports as a partner of schools in cooperation with the clubs. There is already a lot of good targets in this government programme. On the other hand, however, it is also about top sports, which can no longer be thought away from Austria as a sports country number one. I say that very consciously once. The top sport is a sign for Austria, through which you always get into the perspective of international interest. The fact that our government, of course, is also very hard to prepare the EM 2008 and also the 2014 Winter Olympic Games in Salzburg, is guaranteed in that the sportsmen in the new Federal Government are highly represented by the – and I am particularly pleased to say – Steirer Reinhold Lopatka as a sports state secretary, who is also known as marathon runners. If he takes care of sports, we are on a good path for the future, as is the case with the entire Federal Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e27163	The next speaker was Mrs Hlavac. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e27185	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Integration policy is rightly seen and recognised in the Government Declaration as a general social task. This is the new course of the new Federal Government that integration and migration policy is not seen, especially not in the first place, as a task of internal security, but as a cross-sectional matter, as a policy area which must play a role in all other areas of policy and where appropriate measures must also be taken in each policy area. For peaceful cooperation in our country, it is necessary for everyone to confess to the common values of democracy, equality, human rights and non-violent conflict management. In the same way, it also belongs to a peaceful relationship that all people have fair opportunities to shape their lives. Therefore, language learning as a prerequisite for full participation in economic, political and social life is so important, as well as a good training for all children. There are many improvements in the government programme, which I think is very pleasing. I also hope for very good cooperation with the new Minister for Education. It is also very important what the Minister of Women is planning, namely a package of measures for migrants to address their disadvantages through training for girls, assistance in the choice of careers, careers, German courses, support for the self-determined design of life. And, of course, the fight against unemployment is also important here. The principle applies to us: Integration prior to accession. The situation in the labour market must always be the basis for the relevant decisions. This protects the workers living here, whether they are domestics or not. I am convinced that we will succeed in making a policy over the next four years that will facilitate and deepen the integration of the people living here with migration backgrounds. This serves for peace in our society. It will therefore be one of the major challenges of the next period.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e27230	The next speaker is Mr Obernoster. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e27251	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! There were already hundreds of speakers here at the speaker's desk today, but something was not adjourned: Austria is one of the richest, most secure and most successful countries in Europe. On this basis, the new Federal Government will also shape the future for Austria, so that all of us in four years will be a little better. Something has not yet been addressed today, namely tourism. Tourism is one of the most important sectors for Austria. The tourism and leisure industry contributes about 16.3 percent to the gross domestic product. There are 92 000 tourism companies in Austria, and there are about 165,000 employees there. The growth of tourism workers is twice as large as in other professions. I am therefore particularly pleased that tourism is firmly anchored in the government programme. Those who have heard what the Austrian hoteliers' association has called for today in Bad Ischl from the government know that they have demanded what is already in this government programme. Tourism is not only an important sector for cities, but, quite, very important for rural areas. In addition to agriculture, rural areas in particular have no option but to maintain the infrastructure for locals and also for value added. In this sense, I am not concerned about the future of tourism under this government, because the Olympic application of Salzburg and also the European Championship in 2008, which are anchored in the government programme with a fixed sum of 12 million, are secured. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I wish this government and all of us sitting here, a lot of health, a lot of strength – and the right thoughts so that we can make the right decisions in the sense of the Austrians and in the sense of this Republic.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e27298	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e27319	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! In view of the close spirit hour, there are only a few comments on a ghost aircraft – because the second tranche of Eurofighter – at least according to Mr. Bernecker – is only available in 2008. What has actually changed with the National Council election and government in relation to the Eurofighter purchase? - A lot. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] As a result of the National Council election and the corresponding majority relations that have arisen, there is an investigative committee, which will do its work independently and on a matter-by-case basis, Mr Grillitsch. What about government? – So far, there has been a Minister of Defence who has always said: Everything is clean, correct, transparent, nothing can be changed. Now we have a Minister of Defence, who says he is committed to getting out of this treaty with all his means. [[Abg. Grill: With the Darabos we will welcome the Eurofighters! I'm glad!]] By the way: clean, correct and transparent will certainly not be the preamble of the report. – This is a long time to be fixed, for example, if the highest financial official in the context, Dr. Hillingrathner, says that the 18 pieces were already in the top level, the flood was just a political pretext, or if, for example, Mr. Bernecker, whom I have already mentioned, says that it has become something of a contract that has not at all existed. [[Abg. Murauer: Very one-sided!]] In view of these circumstances, ladies and gentlemen, the SPÖ will, at all levels and by all means, make every effort to get out of this Treaty. This can succeed – perhaps through the Committee of Inquiry and the Minister together. [[Abg. Großruck: But this is not in the government programme! That's coffee-sud reading!]] If not – that is possible, ladies and gentlemen – then the population will know that the SPÖ has fought and tried everything – to the bitter end. Whoever then has this heavy heritage to account for this burden for generations is certainly clear. [[Abg. Grill: The Darabos!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e27402	The next speaker is Mrs Fürntrath. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e27423	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Deputies of herbs! I am not of your opinion that we should not buy the interceptors, because if we stand up for Austrian neutrality, then we need precisely these interceptors to protect our airspace – a very, very important point for us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I didn't want to talk about interception hunters. It is just before 24 o'clock, and I would like to add the two points I have taken out, so to speak, to the rounds. Mrs Haubner has spoken today about the amount of child benefit paid. I am particularly pleased that there is the child's money for everyone first, and secondly that this child's allowance has been increased to €16 200. This is not only a bonus for family policy reasons, but it also brings to the workers something that can receive the child's money and earn something for it during the karenz period. They can stay practically in their profession and are not in the situation of having problems with re-entry after the end of the karenz year. However, from my point of view as an entrepreneur, this also has a horse foot: In my opinion, it is very bad and discriminatory for women entrepreneurs to be equal to the profit. From my point of view, it should be: Dependence limit shall be equal to the actual withdrawal. This concerns not only female entrepreneurs but also farmers in general. A second point that is very important to me – some speakers have already mentioned this today: Mr Strache, twice even the honourable Member Westenthal, also the honourable Member has spoken about it – are the apprentices. Unlike you, ladies and gentlemen, I have been training apprentices for 26 years, and I am really confronted with the problems in all shifts every day. [[Abg. I'm too! I also trained apprentices!]] I really know what I'm talking about. It's very difficult. We now have – thank God – the Blum bonus that brings us something and, of course, youth employment. I should also like to say to Mr Westenthaler: The flower bonus is paid aliquot. So it's not the way you said it in the afternoon that someone who has completed a teaching relationship earlier gets the entire flower bonus. That's not true. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I never said that!]] - Yes. If I remember correctly, I do. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I complained about... the termination protection!]] – Yes, but notice protection is particularly important for apprentices, because they also have to learn in good time that it is also about duties and not just rights as an apprentice. In later life, they will once very much need it. I am very glad that this regulation has finally arrived. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I never said anything about the Blum bonus!]] For the government, I would like it to implement all its projects as successfully as the last government did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e27517	The next speaker is Mrs Hagenhofer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e27539	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! In the conclusions of 25 March, the Commission considered that the aid should be granted in the form of State aid in the form of State aid in the form of State aid in the form of State aid in the form of State aid. November 2005 on the report of Austria under the UN Convention on Social, Economic and Cultural Rights, the UN Committee was deeply concerned about the high percentage of Austrians living at the poverty line – 13 percent of all Austrians and even 18 percent of all families with multiple children – and about the high number of precarious employment conditions, the lack of childcare facilities and, last but not least, the impact of pension harmonisation, particularly highlighted in this report. Why am I quoting this UN report? - Dear ladies and gentlemen! The present Government Convention is very clear about these measures, which are set out in this report, which have been reflected in the malformations which have occurred in Austria. The government programme represents a change of course: It again places people at the centre. It intensifys the fight against poverty. It focuses on social security, social security, and it makes social fundamental rights enforceable in the framework of fundamental rights reform – as it has already been mentioned today. It will also implement the installation of a Human Rights Advisory Council. Our Federal Chancellor today stressed in his government statement that it was a particularly important concern for him to strengthen human rights both in our country and internationally. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) As a human rights spokesperson of the SPÖ, I am looking forward to this work. I am pleased that in the Government Declaration and in the Government Convention, human rights are given a corresponding priority and that we can drive human rights forward. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e27581	The next speaker is Mr Steindl. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e27602	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! It's actually all said today. I will therefore be very brief. The governments Schüssel I and II have made the best preparatory work for Austria's economic location. Fortunately, the success factors could be identified in the new government programme. We can assume that the Austrians are facing a good future over the next four years. I should like to express my respect and my thanks to the negotiators and wish the new government a warm welcome!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e27630	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lap. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e27651	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! I would like to highlight in a number of points the chapter “People with Disabilities” in the government programme. The title of this chapter reads: “Strengthen in laws and heads!” We have discussed and negotiated very intensively with each other and can also refer to concrete demands, implementations and a very comprehensive area, so that disabled people are assured of further development in equality law over the next four years. Dear Mrs Haidlmayr! They have expressed the fear that the great coalition, through forced happiness and foreign determination, will deal with people with disabilities, that they will not be asked what disabled people want that the expertise of disabled people is not required. – I have to say that very strongly. I think the expertise of disabled people is very important for the chapter, for the area of disabled people. We also understand each other in the point that we want to develop equality law for disabled people. Another very important point: For many parents and children in Austria, integration in the school is more than 8 years old. It's important to get out of school. This is a long-standing concern and a long-standing demand from our side, and also from numerous parents' organizations or from parents with disabilities. Children. – We have set this up in the programme and will go to implementation. Furthermore, the labour market is an essential aspect that we have devoted ourselves to in this chapter. Above all, it is about forcing the employment of disabled workers and developing the incentive systems for businesses. It should also be in this system that the files are to be rolled and not the people. In the labour market, we have also succeeded in formulating new ways in the context of the compensation tax, namely that a progression solution for the compensation tax would be possible. In contrast to the previous governments, we were also able to confirm that the Federal Social Office is an important institution of the state of Austria and that the Federal Social Office is a centre of competence for disabled people with advice and action at the disposal of disabled people. Ladies and gentlemen! Equal opportunities for disabled people must be further developed. Building accessibility must be further developed. It is a very ambitious programme that we have presented here. I know, however, that the members of the government who have dealt with the issues are on a good path for people.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e27708	The next item is the speech by Mr Murauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e27730	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I and II governments have given particular importance to security in our country and to the security of people. I am glad that very important positions are also set out in the current government agreement. Security in our country is something very special, and people can rely on this new federal government – even though some people think at the spirit hour like colleague Herbs that Austria and its airspace are no longer to be protected. We assign that to the spirit hour and its special access to this hour. We – this Federal Government and the Austrian People's Party – stand for security and do everything that the Austrian Federal Army has according to its means and equipment to secure our country, our people, our culture, our economy, as was the case in the past. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If the Minister of Defence has today expressed his support for cheaper solutions, I would like to draw his attention to the fact that security policy does not allow cheap solutions, that we are not able to respond to cheap solutions, but that we have the best solutions – costs and benefits – and that the German army, the soldiers, have the ability to comply with their mandate, namely to protect and help our country in the country and to comply with foreign obligations. I should like to draw the attention of the Federal Minister, who, unfortunately, left us a long time ago, to the fact that there are irritations in the population and also among the soldiers and servants of the Federal Army, if a Minister of Defence expressly expresses himself and refuses military service, and has actually confirmed this yesterday: yesterday had this attitude and is today's Minister of Defense. [[Abg. Strache: But this is your minister!]] [[Abg. Strache: This is how when a vegetarian carnivoress becomes!]] Federal Minister! I think you would be doing a very great service if you give up this attitude, this refusal, also declare the service with the weapon necessary – as each basic defense minister gives his oath to the Republic. If you also show this and repeat that you withdraw your attitude, that you correct it and that you also have the confession, in the last consequence, to also have the weapon at your disposal in order to secure our country, our people. – This is what the people expect, I expect, from you the Austrian federal army. The basis must be the Reform Commission, which has clearly stated that we want a slim, modern, flexible and very professional federal army. The six months are already law. We do not need a special legal measure. The militia must be given a high priority and the 24 000 full employment equivalents must be secured accordingly. The national and international tasks must be balanced. That means that 10,000 men are to be available for security in our country, for civil protection, for border protection, but also for the assistance of security issues. As in the past, we are of course on the road as a peace army, with the UN, the OSCE or the European Union mandate. The Petersberg tasks are another point where, of course, we have proven ourselves internationally in the past and want to prove ourselves in the future, and where people at the borders of Europe and beyond are available in the Mediterranean region in humanitarian operations, in disasters, in peacekeeping measures and in peace-building measures. To this end, it is necessary to have a well-equipped federal army – including weapons – available.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e27786	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Arbitrator. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e27807	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus very briefly on the first chapter in the government programme – the position in Europe and in the world – even if it is a new day again today. I think it is an ambitious goal to talk about strengthening the confidence of Austrians in European integration. The Federal Government has the task, in the year of the 50. The European Union's birthday for Austria to work on these future prospects of the European Union. But I also believe that it is not a matter of appeals, it is not about plausible things, it is not about empty words, but the most important point is to strengthen the social dimension within the European Union. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is the task of the entire Federal Government, not individual ministers. It is about the whole federal government creating framework conditions for more jobs; that the entire federal government creates framework conditions for more growth; that the whole federal government is also working to expand the Trans-European Networks – for example, a point where I particularly want to be improved by this federal government. In the past seven years, we have been adamant – still no connection to Bratislava, no rail link to the East. The use of the Danube as an intermodal node, as a waterway, is still not sufficient. I am well aware that this federal government will improve this in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A new name is also planned for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, “Europe and International”. I also say that I would rather be “International and Europe” because I think it would be the right order for this ministry. But this name is important: It is not about external matters, it is about our common European, global interest. That is the decisive, and that is also the good of it. If this government manages to strengthen and improve the social dimension of Europe, it will also be able to improve confidence in the European Union again.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e27864	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mulder. Requested time: also 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e27886	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! In the Government Declaration, German Chancellor Gusenbauer stressed the central importance of housing development, and this is by no means a matter of course. For I have enough voices from the past in the ear that have spoken of a restriction and even abolition. Therefore, this explicit commitment is very important and fundamental, because housing promotion is a guarantee for sustainable living. Leastable living is not possible without the non-profit housing guaranteed by non-profit-making housing providers, and this is an important part of social security in our country. If we look at the trend in rent prices in the past, especially in the private rental sector, we must note that we were faced with increasing housing costs. If you look at the causes, then the very high broker fees in the EU comparison will certainly be responsible. That is why I also see it as a real progress that has been made in the government programme that the commission limit is to be reduced. This will certainly make living more manageable. If you are talking about reducing housing and rental costs, you also have to think about the operating costs and address them. There should be a reduction here. It is also stated that the operating cost catalogue should be examined and its timeliness checked. In order to reduce the cost of housing, the area of rental interest is also very important. The programme therefore states that it is about improving the transparency of rental contracts. I have now taken out only a few points from a number of several, but all of them are in the sense of those looking for housing and the tenants who will certainly make housing more manageable. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e27925	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Gartlehner. Requested time: also 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e27946	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank and here in the Chamber! I would like to take a short look and address some important points on technology and industrial policy. I believe that an essential point of this new federal government will be to consider how the new Federal Ministry Act will take into account the division of competence in these areas. I think there is a need for reform here, which has been discussed again and again for seven or eight years, but it has never been found the courage to bring about this structural adjustment between university and non-university research. Perhaps this time it will succeed; I think that would be an important point for a good scientific and research climate in Austria. Point two. Focus on industrial, information and communication technologies: Everyone is modest: As far as the possibilities are concerned, we can finance, and so on and so on. – There is an industry that has enormous growth potential, which is already growing at 6 percent per year and which has much greater potential, when you know that there is almost a full supply in Austria with 96 per cent. On the international average, however, it is not very famous that the actual use by users is only 38 percent, and here lies the huge potential. This gap must be closed: not only hardware, but also brainware for the ICT industry. I think there is a large and wide field of employment and innovation here. This is, of course, a task not only for the Minister of Information or for the research sector, but for all departments, for administration, for education, for health. Here a lot of potential and work can be generated with state resources. Ladies and gentlemen! Personally, I am also pleased to conclude that the Industrial Committee, which has been a more functional committee, has succeeded in developing an industrial and technology committee beyond my efforts across party borders and has now also been assigned to this committee. I therefore hope that we can develop many activities here, and I am looking forward to work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e27984	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. Requested time: also 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e28005	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Austrian consumer policy faces major challenges. That is why it is all the political groups in this House – for the first time since 1945! – have decided on a consumer committee. I am particularly pleased that, in turn, a Federal Ministry is specifically responsible for coordinating consumer affairs. Today, Federal Minister Dr. Erwin Buchinger has already clarified one thing at the urgent request: For the first time since 2002, there will be a report on the situation of consumers. Mr Federal Minister, I would like to thank you very much for this announcement. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Federal Minister Schmied! We consumer protectionists have also applied for a number of claims to the educational community. The question is: How are our children trained in everyday life? How do they learn to deal with the new telecommunications technologies? We would like one thing: more consumer education in schools, Mrs. Federal Minister, and more consumer research. We hope that we have found the right contact person in these questions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If you read the government programme carefully, you will find very many very ambitious consumer policy concerns, especially in the Justice Chapter, when it comes to the issues of the Contracting Parties Act. Here there is the agreement of the High House from the last legislative period, and here we expect clear accents for Austrian consumers. However, we also expect clarification on the issue of the digitisation of consumer rights, on the rights of the people who travel with the ÖBB. For one thing I would like to say clearly: The people who use the train today cannot rely on the compensation options that passengers have today. I think we need legal provisions in order to also train the management of the ÖBB in this sense. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Consumer policy faces major challenges. This government programme contains very important aspects. We will have a lot of issues to discuss in the Consumer Affairs Committee, and I am looking for your support.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e28068	The next speaker is Mrs Bayr. Requested time: also 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e28090	Ladies and gentlemen! The chapter on development policy in the government programme leaves a relatively broad framework open; I am pleased that we can certainly very well concrete and shape this parliamentary at a broad level. Leave I should like to draw attention to a number of points which are most important to me in terms of coherence, namely to ensure that different policy areas work towards the goal of fair and just global development. I think that we in Parliament, with the establishment of an advisory board on the North-South dialogue shortly before Christmas, have taken a fairly important step towards that – across all five political groups, across consensus – that we want to involve as many colleagues in Parliament as possible from other committees on the issue of development policy, to make it important for them and to work together on this great task. I think the government will certainly take an example of this Parliament's initiative and also take concrete action. I am thinking, for example, of the possibility that we might see that in the future, in the case of legislative projects, there is not only what the projects cost and whether they are EU-compliant, but perhaps even when a law is created, how far these laws will be relevant to global development. This would certainly make a coherent work much easier. A second point concerns the whole question of economic and development, which is also broad in the Government Convention. Because I think it will be very, very important to define one clearly: What is it that matters to us? In my view, it can only be so that we really fight poverty in the south that we see that income is generated, that is widely distributed and that not a few benefit, that we evaluate and ensure that jobs are created, that resources are used in a sustainable way, and that it really brings something to the poor people. Thirdly, we are considering the issue of evaluation of the ADA. I believe that, on the one hand, with the basics, with the data we already have, we can come to a very good conclusion in 2007, where we must always be clear that the real goal must be to make the ADA an effective and efficient establishment, also to an effective on-the-spot facility that gives assistance to NGOs and project partners on-the-spot assistance. I think that is feasible, I think that we can bind a meaningful whole package and come to a modern Austrian development cooperation. Of course, enough money is needed to do this – fourthly – and once again we are committed to international commitments such as the Monterrey Agreement. I can only promise that I will use all my options to achieve an increase of 0.51 percent by 2010 and 0.7 percent by 2015, so that we can make a truly tangible Austrian contribution to poverty reduction, to lower infant and maternal mortality, to vocational training, to empowerment of women, to sustainable resource use and much more. I look forward to a broad political dialogue in Parliament, with the government, with NGOs, with science, with media, and I am sure: We can still develop our development cooperation. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e28138	The next speaker is Mr Mayer. Also 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e28159	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The education chapter begins with the phrase ‘Education policy is a policy of opportunity’. Education policy is about our children and young people. Children and young people are our future, and you can rightly say: Education policy is future policy. Today, the new Minister of Education has said in her address, if one wants to do so, that it takes long, laborious and costly ways to implement her policy. – How right she is, ladies and gentlemen! But this is also the way in which one can accept this government programme as an educational politician. I too It must be noted that, although rapid reform steps are urgently needed, the money for this is simply missing. I hope that the new Minister of Education will finally start with sustainability and economics in education policy. What do I mean by that? – I give a brief example as a long-term headmaster and as one who has also trained many hundred children and refers to early pedagogy. It is almost negligent how in recent years one has simply passed the new findings in brain research, the new findings of science. It is known that the brain maturation is about completed at the age of seven. One also knows that this is exactly the time when one can best promote children, whether they are weaknesses that need to be eliminated, or whether they are strengths, whether they are creative tasks that one can promote. This age to seven years is used so far too little, of too little well-trained educators. There is a need for a professional view of the early pedagogists, who also bring these new findings. If we take these steps, I believe that what we now see is a first step, an important step in the field of early education, but only a first small step. Ladies and gentlemen! What is more sustainable than promoting children at that time, in which it is almost playfully possible, in which it is most cheap for the people of the world and in which it is shown to bring with it the absolute greatest benefit for the overall development of a young person? Mrs. Minister said she's a tough fighter. I promise you, we will You're your competitors, because I'm convinced that the fight is worth it. Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e28208	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Trunk. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e28229	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! By the way, thank you for your exemplary solidarity and your presence at this early morning. Thank you. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Thank you, Mrs Minister, thank you! And a good slide!]] What applies to consumer protection also applies to tourism – in the short term: It is due to the SPÖ that after many, many years there is again a Tourism Committee. It is to be attributed to her that there is a content positioning, a tight chapter on tourism and essential characteristics, characteristics in other areas than cross-sectional matter of tourism. Only SPÖ's negotiating team is responsible for this! Here I am particularly grateful to my predecessor in the role of the SPÖ tourist speaker, Dietmar Hoscher, who has called for what is real today. By the way, the deputies are sitting in front of us: the former German Chancellor, now Klubobmann. This gives this very important economic area for Austria the meaning which he unfortunately did not have over the past seven years and beyond. It is important to us Socialists and Democrats that, in the area of tourism, the design and use of the controllable leisure facilities is also an essential factor for Austrians. It is important for us to implement a sustainable support programme for the tourism and leisure industry, with the support directives – including those set out in the government programme – having a new quality in terms of innovation, in particular employment impact and the setting of growth impulses. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Golf courses!]] Tourism and the leisure industry need not only lip commitment, but real concepts, in reality, to a year-round tourism. I am missing the time to list this programme – and I am sure my colleague from the BZÖ has not found it at all, and he has not lost a word on tourism: the establishment of model regions, the increase in tourism promotion, in particular the extension of guarantees and venture capital funds, special support programmes for tourism schools and the like. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) What tourism needs is commitment, creativity, the ability to network and fair opportunities in national and international competition, because we also have different standards among the federal states. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Golf courses, golf courses and once again golf courses!]] Tourism needs – Mr. Westenthaler! – Cooperation, know-how across regions and also party borders. As a new tourist speaker of my group, I offer this form of cooperation to both Mr Bartenstein and my colleagues in the National Council and especially those employed in tourism, self-employed and self-employed. – Thank you for your shared attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e28311	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hauser. What time should I take to speak to you, Mr. Colleague? Four minutes. [[Abg. May. Houses: Four!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e28343	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! I really didn't want to say anything today at this late hour, but after my previous speaker, Mrs Mag. Trunk, noted that tourism is so great in the government programme, I already have to keep in mind that I am actually shocked and affected that this sector, which is extremely important for rural areas in particular, is being taken into account with half a page in the government programme. So from my point of view, this is really a shame, considering the importance of tourism in the west of Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am actually amazed that my ÖVP colleagues – and especially those from Tyrol – are just taking note of this. In fact, the government's programme is for tourism except for flakes, please, nothing in it at all. It does not contain a single point that goes beyond flattites. If I have to read in it: Confession of year-round tourism, I must say: Now only! Please, is this something new? [[Abg. May. Trunk: Unfortunately yes!]] Reduction of wage additional costs – No na net, please nice! This has been demanded for years. What I really expected would be concrete approaches. I cannot even read half a sentence from the government programme that really deals with this chapter. The whole thing is striped on half a side. The many questions raised by the Austrian Hoteliers Association alone to all tourism speakers remain unanswered. [[Abg. May. Trunk: That was just a foundation!]] In conclusion, I say at nocturnal hour: This is where you slept. [[Abg. May. Trunk: No, these are the basics!]] I also note: Perhaps we can do something to help you get back on track in this area and in fact also contribute to the fact that tourism may be considered in the future with the importance it deserves, namely, an essential one. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e28415	The next speaker is Mr Dobnigg. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e28437	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! After more than six lean years for Austria's pensioners, it will be gratifying – and we have learned this yesterday from the mouth of our new Federal Chancellor, Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer; and it is also apparent from the government programme – that there are now far-reaching improvements in pensions. This is a visible sign of appreciation for those people, for those generation who built Austria under the most difficult conditions after the Second World War and also established the foundation for the further generations. The success of the SPÖ negotiation team in the Pension chapter is that the last pension reforms that we have always rightly criticized Social Democrats could be eroded. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Reds are now in the government!]] For example, clear improvements to the current situation are that the discount-free pension is extended by 55 or 60 years in the so-called hackler scheme by 2010, the double deductions in the corridor board are reduced and the discount is halved in the old right. There will no longer be any reductions in the heavy-worker's pension for particularly heavy-duty groups. And I also think it is right that there will be negotiations here to improve this. It is also gratifying that child rearing times are upgraded for pensions. The contribution basis for child training will be evaluated in the future and adapted to inflation. In the case of pensions for reduced employment, i.e. invalidity pensions, harmonisation is sought. Persons who do not yet meet the requirement for an invalidity pension, despite their reduced working capacity, should also be helped. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Lamp!]] A significant breakthrough has also been achieved in the area of annual pension adjustment, and here the price is now automatically offset. A particularly large milestone has been achieved in the area of minimum pension and compensatory allowances. Not to be overlooked is also – and we can be very proud of this – that Austria is one of only three countries in the EU where the minimum pension is now above the poverty threshold. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Red Lamps!]] Ladies and gentlemen! With this programme, the SPÖ as Chancellor and Government Party will bring a lot more justice and fairness into the country and thus contribute significantly to improving the quality of life of people. We are therefore working together immediately and together for a more social and just Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e28503	The last speaker in this debate is Mr Steier. Also 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e28524	Mr President. Estimated government colleagues! Dear ladies and gentlemen! As a final speaker, I am allowed to comment briefly on the environmental policy chapter of the Government Declaration. A central project of this federal government is climate protection. The last few years have been characterized by mostly bad climate news. For example, just think of the dramatic results of the so-called Star Report! At the end of January there will again be a report by the United Nations Climate Scientists panel, and it is likely that further terrifying details will be made known. Climate change is – and that is what we are all aware of. Each individual can observe the warming of the spring-like weather caprioles and the pollen flight in the middle of winter. This will not be stopped for the next few decades either. In other words, it must be noted that: It's only a little time to do a lot of things. In addition to achieving the national Kyoto target, which requires an almost impossible act in the light of developments in recent years, it is also necessary to make a greater contribution to climate protection in the field of energy supply and energy use. To this end, the planned measures to further expand renewable energy sources, save energy and increase energy efficiency will also be taken. Ladies and gentlemen! The involvement of aviation emissions has also been included in the government programme. This is particularly important in that, although emissions from air transport currently account for only 3 per cent of the EU's total greenhouse gas emissions, they are constantly increasing. Since 1990, they have increased by 87 percent. It is forecast that aircraft emissions will more than double by 2020, as measured by current values. Allow In conclusion, it appears appropriate to present this chapter as a whole: To ensure sustainability and to prevent pollution from our environment through emissions and noise, it is not self-evident, but it must be politically ambitious. The environment of the Government Convention is a good starting point for this. I hope that we will jointly set up initiatives and pursue the objectives here together. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e28561	Mr Oellinger also spoke. 6 minutes is the remaining speaking time of the Green Group. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e28583	Mr President. High house! Mr Broukal referred to an interview by me today in a speech. I'm just referring to this briefly. This interview started with the fact that I said: Red-black will be quite a strangle! Well, after the end of this day, I can only say: I'm certainly not a prophet, but it's true. What I'm taking away from this day is that the division of resorts is obviously not finally fixed. Whoever receives the research agendas is still open. It is obviously still open – that is the only non-exactly answered question by the Social Minister – what happens to consumer protection. [[Call the SPÖ: He said that in his statement!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He still does not know what skills he has!]] What I take away from today's meeting is the realization: There are many questions about how to proceed. In approximately 40 thematic areas, evaluation or evaluation of how to continue work is carried out. This is the picture of a federal government that has decided to present itself today. - That's it! Or actually bad so, bad so for Austria. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: It is ruled, and you do not want it!]] They say, Mr. stupid, “it is ruled. ” It's not being ruled! It is being evaluated how to govern and should be, and that makes a big difference, Mr President. If an evaluation is made when a dispute is raised, which competences who has, then it is not clear how to rule. Regardless of what content is represented, this is not good for the country, Mr. Cot is stupid and my honourable ladies and gentlemen. However, I would like to say something to Mr Broukal, which I see here now. In view of this statement I made in the interview, Mr Broukal has claimed that I would have voted in favour of tuition fees. [[Abg. Broukal: You have that too!]] I can only repeat what I said about the study fees and the model Gusenbauer. I come from a working-class family, and I could never have studied that way. And I would like to say the following to you, Mr President: I reject this model in principle! That was my statement. As you come to the interpretation, the Greens – or I too – would have voted in favour of tuition fees, I remain strange in view of this statement. The second point was: I have tried to do quite honestly what is relevant to today's session, namely an overall assessment. Of course, I believe that one can also debate tuition fees if other points are recognizable, which reduce the tuition fees so far that they are no longer available. [[Abg. Broukal: That's it!]] I therefore said: The tuition fees are not the only problem. Access to universities for all social shifts and the possibilities that are unfortunately missing to complete a study within regular times are equally important. Mr Broukal, where are these opportunities to study within regular times? Where are the opportunities for students to come to scholarships that reach some acceptable heights? Mr Broukal, take the example of the President-in-Office of the Central Committee, the President-in-Office of the Council. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Sit together for two afterwards!]] This is a tragic matter, since it has not been discussed: There is an ÖH chairman who receives 200 € scholarship. And you're supposed to be able to live on it? This woman is committed to having access to the university, which is and should remain free of tuition fees, and she does so on her own experience, knowing how difficult that is. But it is not just about tuition fees; I have said that. It was also about scholarships. And stop coming with credit models that are not manageable for the students, especially as you know that the students are thereby indebted years after their studies. This is the point, Mr Broukal! Let us consider the whole, not just the subject of tuition fees! Let's take a look at everything you've done on the subject of universities and education! There you can only say: No step towards more justice for schools and education, because everything you have offered here remains in the financial morass! You don't have money for it, you don't want to loosen money. If we look at the whole thing, then we come to the conclusion: Except for differences, except for the assessment of unexplained problems, this Federal Government still does not agree with these coalition parties.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e28710	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Johann Maierzu Wort. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the provisions of § 58 of the Rules of Procedure: A maximum of 2 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e28740	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker, Mr Oellinger, said in his speech that it would not be clear where consumer protection is going. I'll put it right: It is absolutely clear that consumer protection agents belong to the Social Ministry. The Federal Ministry means: Federal Ministry of Social Affairs and Consumer Protection, and for this only Federal Minister Dr. Erwin Buchinger is responsible.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e28794	A further speech is made by Mr Broukal. Speaking time: 1 minute. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e28815	I, of course, wanted to say to colleagues, and not to the Greens in general, that they are happy for study fees – I understand very well – but, dear Karl, also dear Professor Van der Bellen, you also have an archive and you know very well that there are also words from people who see the whole thing. And we were in this situation, too. Should the study fees fail? – And you yourself honestly said that you believe you wouldn’t have failed the study fees alone in 2002. [[Abg. May. Stadler: At the Eurofighter purchase you should have let it fail!]] Look, it's like this: If you've done it before yesterday, that you're doing this today, you'll have to update it a little bit, as you say in journalism. Between what you said to the newspapers yesterday, and today is the clear announcement, for the scholarships € 25 million – in old money we would have said: 350 million S – more. It is the promise of the Minister of Science and the SPÖ to ensure that there are these unprofitable loans to be repaid only with the corresponding income. Let's do it, please, not like if it wasn't worth anything. Your old policy: Everything or nothing, and if it's not everything, it's nothing worth it! There is also incremental progress.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e28850	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I ask all ladies and gentlemen to take a seat. We come to the votes. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Van der Bellen, ladies and gentlemen, on the abolition of tuition fees. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That is why I am going to proceed accordingly. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Deputies as well as the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr Van der Bellen, colleagues and colleagues on the abolition of tuition fees, to vote in favour of the 'No' vote. I now ask Mr Wimmer, Mr Wimmer, to start by calling for the name; Mrs. Dr. Fekter will replace him later. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e28917	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make their votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. I am going to interrupt the session for a few minutes. The meeting was suspended. [[The officials responsible shall make the votes.]] [[The meeting was suspended at 0.53 p.m. and resumed at 1.02 p.m.]] President Dr Michael Spindelegger: I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 161, of which ‘Yes’ votes: 35, No votes: 126. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Van der Bellen, colleagues, on the abolition of tuition fees is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Bösch, Brosz; Fichtenbauer; Grain duration, grave, green forest; Haidlmayr, Haimbuchner, Hauser, Hradecsni; Kickl, Kogler, Kurzmann; Lunacek, lignite, lignite, lignite, lignite, lignite, lunacec; Mayerhofer, Moser; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Pirklhuber; Rosary, Rossmann; Sburny, Treasure, Stadler Ewald, Stoisits, Strache; themesl; Van der Bellen; Weinzinger Brigid; Zach, Zinger, Zinggl, Dwarf. With ‘No’, MEPs voted: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Klaus Hubert; Bauer, Bayr, Mulder, Binder-Maier, Brinek, Broukal; Cap, Csörgits; Darmann, Dobnigg, Dolinschek, Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert; Eder Kurt, Eder Sebastian, Eder-Gitschthaler, Ehmann, Einm, Einwallner, Eisenschenk, Eßl; Fassleven, Faul, Fazekas, Fekter, Fleckl, Freund, Fuhrmann, Führer, Fürntrath; Gaál Anton, Gahr Hermann, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Glaser, Grander, Grillitsch, Grossmann, Großruck; Haberzettl, Hagenhofer, Hakl, Haubner Peter, Haubner Ursula, Heinisch-Hosek, Heinzl, Hlavac, Höfinger, Höllerer, Hörl, Hornek; Ikrath; Jarolim; Chapel, chapel, Karl, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kößl, Krainer, Herbs, Crist, Kukacka; Lapp, Lentic; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Marizzi, Mayer Elmar, Mikesch, Missethon, Mitterlehner, Morak, Muchitsch, Murauer, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz, Niederwieser; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Parnigoni, Pendl, Pepper, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Prince; Rada Robert, Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Rädler, Riener Barbara, Riepl, Zeit Sylvia; Sound, Schar, Schasching, Scheibner, Schiedler Andreas, Schönpass, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Sieber Norbert, Sonnberger, Spindelberger Erwin, Spindellegger Michael, Stadlbauer, Stadler Astrid, Steier, Steindl Konrad, Stummvoll; Tamandl, Trunk; Westenthaler, Wimmer, Wittmann, Wöinger, Worm.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e29127	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seat. We shall now proceed to further votes. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues on “Back to the Future” – continuation of the success course over the past seven years instead of standstill, burden and flattening policy. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Scheibner, colleagues and colleagues on the execution by the Federal Minister for Defence in accordance with his constitutional duties. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser, ladies and gentlemen, on urgent measures to protect climate change in the field of transport. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with this motion for a resolution to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. It is therefore also rejected. Finally, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Cap, Dr Schüssel, colleagues on support and implementation of the government programme. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. - That's the majority. Accepted. (E 8.) The agenda is exhausted. [[01:03:32]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-16-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e29215	I am still announcing that self-employed applications 88/A to 95/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 247/J to 256/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 1.03 a.m., following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
