ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e2031	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 16th. Meeting of the National Council on the basis of a sufficiently supported request pursuant to § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. The Official Protocols of 13, 14 and 15. Meeting of 7. On 3 March 2007, he was appointed to the Parliamentary Directorate. Deputies Dobnigg, Dr. Wittmann, Jakob Auer, Großruck, Ing. Kapeller, Morak, Obernosterer, Praßl and Strache. [[09:03:01]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e2068	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[09:03:24]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e2255	The BZÖ Parliamentary Club has, in accordance with § 74a para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure to ask for the self-employed motion for a resolution 162/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Westenthal, ladies and gentlemen on the great coalition as a security risk for Austria. Call for urgent request will take place at 12 noon. I also announce that the meeting will be broadcast live by ORF from 12 a.m. to 3.30 p.m. In addition, it is planned to interrupt the meeting during the news between 13.00 and 13.15. [[09:04:01]] Request for a brief debate on the response 130/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e2284	I would also like to say that, in accordance with Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a desire to hold a brief debate on the reply 130/AB to Question 123/J by Mr Lutz Weinzinger, colleagues on the first reception centre Thalham, by the Federal Minister for the Interior. Since this meeting called for a urgent request to be dealt with, the brief debate will take place following this one. I'll interrupt the meeting until noon.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e2329	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. [[12:00:48]] Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Ing. Peter Westenthalerand colleagues on the great coalition as a security risk for Austria (162/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e2365	We are moving towards urgent treatment of the self-employed motion for a resolution 162/A(E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e2682	I give the floor to Mr Deputies Ing. Westenthaler as an applicant for the reasons of the urgent request. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e2707	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Minister of the Interior! Ms. Minister of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very happy and pleased that the Chancellor of today's special meeting also gives the honour of his presence. I hope the well-being is good, Federal Chancellor, I hope you have slept well after yesterday you have hit the Austrian drivers a 400 million-€ load in front of the latz and thus continue your load course. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer: Excellent!]] I hope you have at least peace. But this is the same thing in this government: that everything is promised, nothing is kept, taxes are increased, burdens come and problems arise in security policy. – But it forces neatly in the bale. Today, a few minutes ago, your chairman from Tyrol, the SPÖ chief of Tyrol, Gschwendtner, will judge that he is for the exit from the coalition. In the event that not all of them know: “If it remains the way it is, I am for this: Nothing out of the government.” – Congratulations, Mr Gschwendtner! Do it! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The government is fully resolved – and at the same time we have a security problem in this country. The government fights daily. One should read only briefly what the ÖVP says, for example, about the SPÖ so much. The ÖVP says that the SPÖ is unhealed, inactive, nervous, it disqualifies itself as a government partner, shoulder knocking and at the same time shinning entry is the foreign exchange in the government, the SPÖ holds the ÖVP back at the Leiberl, Gusenbauer should withdraw its bite reflections and chain dogs, and so continues, casting builders have no leadership quality. Of course, the SPÖ can't be lumped, gives back and throws the ÖVP's lack of team spirit – all the original quotes of your politicians – the ÖVP bring dumping-resistant arguments that are not to the 19th, but 15th and 14th. ==References====External links==* Official website And Mr Häupl says that the ÖVP is brutal, they don't want us, and they're also mocking us. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of red and black: If you don't want one another, then let it stay and finally make new elections so that the voters can take revenge on the policy of broken promises! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is the difference between Ikea and this great coalition: At Ikea, the people who shop there have a three-month right of return, with the government they must, after the election, retain this Federal Chancellor and this government, although they no longer want them. - That's the difference. And that's where we say: While you are fighting, every day, provoking, in the end, you are also getting involved in falsehoods and not going on, in Austria crime is increasing. This is the moral picture: Dispute, tank and zauder and in-depth standstill – but strains! They always say: It's going up! They want to make people know all the time, it goes up. – I say to you: The only thing that goes up is the crime figures and the burdens in this country – otherwise nothing goes up since this government is in place! And the result is that the most important issue is security, combating crime, because in the government, literally, “the devil is loose.” The only thing that is safe with you is the day-to-day dispute and the strains; that is not only what I say, but also the newspapers on the security crisis: Dispute in the coalition. There is also a strong argument about security, while crime increases by 10 per cent only in the first two months; as the FPÖ cannot blame us for that, because we have a new government! Januaryen, February, new government, increase crime by 10 percent, especially in the case of burglary theft. In Vienna alone, we have recorded 20 house and apartment breaks every day. The number of bank robbery increases. 17 bank robbery in the first weeks of this year; of which one is clarified, 16 are not clarified. We've got an increase in the addictions, the robberys. We have organized beggar bands in Graz and Vienna. We have 15 000 crimes in Lower Austria, an increase of 16 percent. We have an increase of 23.6 percent in the crime in Upper Austria. - And that's how it goes. If you are publishing the daily newspapers today, for example, read in the “Kronen Zeitung”: “Integration series in compulsory schools!” In 2006 70 and now already 24 in just five weeks. 24 Break-ins! The common school Grinzing, which has been attacked three times in just five weeks, is particularly affected, not by any stupid people, but by professionals who get in there, says the police who recorded the cases. We continue: Floridsdorf, three murders within five days. Three murders! Grossfeld settlement, Gemeindebau. People live there in fear – and nothing is done about it. Three murders! Three raids in five weeks to a P.S.K. branch in Brigittenau. Three times in a row the same P.S.K. branch will attack – and nothing happens! The employees live in fear and horror. That means: Yes, we have a problem, and we see it too! Crime is growing, there are new shocks – numbers I have mentioned to you – and we must fight them accordingly. That is why we have convened this important special meeting for today, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. We have imported crime from foreign criminals who attack banks, break into homes, and ultimately cause fear and terror in the population. At the same time, the education rate falls by 4.3 percent alone in the first two months, while at the same time the security of the people in Austria is falling. A final survey has shown that in Vienna alone every second Vienna fear of going on the street alone at night. That's a latest survey. 64 percent of the population say that security and crime are their main concern. At the same time, the Vienna police are sinking into a huge scandal that has never been there in the form. The police chief who is increasingly making sure that in the future it is not “blue light”, but “red light”, the police peak, where there are now more suspensions from top officials than enlightened bank robbery – I really wonder: What can actually be done by the officials on the street, the strip officials, for their good reputation and the security of people to be ultimately discredited by a few black sheep at the top of the police. That is why we are also working for the police to get more resources to act better and to ensure security in Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] So we have a security problem, that is, increasing crime – and that is why the Minister of Justice is coming and presenting a ten-point programme, which she now wants to do about because the prisons are full. We have full prisons. Over 9,000 prisoners are in prisons, 42 percent of them foreigners, and they want 10 percent fewer prisoners, so 900 want them away. It presented a ten-point programme and proposed the following: She suggested that prisoners should be released early or on condition that they should be converted into fines, and – this is the highlight at all – in 2008, the 90th anniversary of the Republic of Austria, she wants to carry out a general amnesty. The fact that this will ultimately release “heavy boys” is the birthday gift of this government to the Austrians for the 90th anniversary of this Republic. We release the criminals because we don't have any more detentions. My Minister for Justice, this cannot be the answer to a higher crime! The answer to a higher crime and more prisoners cannot be that we release them, but rather the answer to a higher crime, to the fear of people must be: more police, more severe punishments, more arrests and more prisons. This is the task that you have, Mrs Minister, and we ask that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Austria must not become an Eldorado for international crime, that everyone comes here and says: Great, either I get a mild punishment or I'll be released anyway because I'll fall into an amnesty or be released early. Therefore, our proposal, which we will also request today: In Austria, 16 Bundesheerheer-Kasernen are empty, which cannot be sold by the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft for years. What prevents you from taking over some barracks, renovating, making sure and building a new prison from it? Then we have places again and do not have to let go of the population any more early on. – We ask you to do so. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! One of the most important and most concerned issues – I am very glad that this is also being discussed at the moment, also by the Austrian People’s Party – is the issue of child abuse. We have terrifying numbers here. We have reported 2 500 reported cases of child sexual abuse each year, but we have a dark number of up to 10,000 cases in Austria, where children are sexually abused. 10,000 cases! Unfortunately, we also have some sad examples in Austria. For example: ==References== January 2007, a man who has sexually abused a ten-year-old boy is sentenced to 19 months of imprisonment. ==References== February of this year, a tennis teacher who abused a ten - year - old girl is sentenced to half a year of impunity. You know what happens then? He goes into appeal, and in the appeal, this sentence is converted into a fine of €3,600 – and he is on his feet. Reasons: It was a unique slipper of this culprit. A unique slipper to abuse a ten-year-old girl! That's an immeasurable thing, you just can't leave it that way. There is something to be done about it, and that is why we ask you, Mrs Minister, to stand here and finally ensure that more severe penalties are imposed. I do not think, like some of the other parties, that there are originally judges to blame. No, no, no, The legislator is responsible. The legislator has the responsibility at last to formulate high, sharp minimum penalties, to implement them, so that the judges also have the opportunity to pronounce these penalties. And that's our demand: We want an intensification because there must be no excuse for child abuse. We don't want an excuse for children's pangs. Someone who offends our children has no right to be mild in criminal law, but has to be locked away, severely judged and severely punished, ladies and gentlemen! We're very excited. We will also make a request today to introduce precisely those minimum penalties where they are not and to increase where they exist. There have also been reasonable proposals on the part of the Austrian People's Party, and I am now telling you: Let us take a look at the large-scale shadow and vote in favour of this motion for a resolution that we are going to put forward today – that is exactly what you are calling for: To introduce minimum penalties, to increase minimum penalties, and to enable the Minister of Justice to do so. In the event of serious crimes, we really want to block away sexual offenders – yes!, not 20 years and then leave free, but for life, when it is a serious act – and we want to have at least a lifelong control in the other acts. That is, the criminal offence has to report, we want a reporting obligation. We want a sexual offender file, which we will also apply for today, so that people also know and know that a sexual offender could live in their surroundings. And we also want – something that is currently being implemented in Germany – a ban on sexual offenders near schools, kindergartens and playgrounds, because we do not want a criminal who has already abused a child to get close to a family or a child. That is what we owe our children, and that is why we want to put this initiative in Parliament today. We're telling you who's been hurting children doesn't deserve a temper, and I'm telling you why. A child who is sexually abused suffers all his life, is traumatized and will no longer forget this act in his entire life. Therefore, it is only right to demand that perpetrators who commit such an act are also affected throughout their lifetime and will not forget this act. Then they may think about it in the future and leave our children's fingers behind. This may at last reduce the number of these crimes, preventing such crimes from taking place. That is, I think, something quite, very important that we want to enforce, because the BZÖ is fully on the side of the families and the children. – Mrs Minister, we want you to enforce this during this legislative period. Instead of releasing prisoners to run criminals, make a stronger criminal right for child abusers, for sexual offenders, then much is done for this country and also for the security of this country, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We want and we will discuss further points today. The betley problem in Vienna and Graz is an obvious problem where organized gangs are concerned, both in Graz and in Vienna, which plague people to drive money for their organization. I believe that it is necessary to take action against these acts. [[Members of the Greens stand in their bank series and keep a transparency with the title “Who protects us from Westenthaler?” in height.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] – I think it’s very interesting that the Green Sexual Crimes are squandered, but it’s more important for them to break polemics against other parties here.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e2797	Mr. Klubobmann, please wait a minute. I'm asking the Greens to re-roll the Transparent.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e2825	You know, I'm very happy and grateful that the ORF is sending the show live today. Every viewer who now sees this can be very different: To whom is the fight against sexual abuse, the fight against crime important, and which politicians and parties abuse a National Council Special Session on Party Political Hickhack? – People should decide that. You want to release everyone, you want to let all foreigners into the country. That's your policy that's too more Insecurity leads to people's rejection. That's why you're also more in the downturn and not in the upswing. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We stand for security. We also want to fight the problem of drug and addiction – if I look at the greens – accordingly. You are for the withdrawal, you want to release everything, you would like to have all our children smoke cannabis, this can be sold freely in trafiken. – That’s your policy! We will fight against this and protect our children from you, because you want to make the way to the poison easier for our children. And we don't want that! We will fight this, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Every second drug dealer is a foreigner. In the safety report, the drug report says that foreign criminal groups dominate the market. – We have not written it, it is in the official report. That is why we need to do something about it. Mr Platter, I would If you really want to, tell the House at last – and I have already asked you in committee – how high the security budget will be for the next two years. Are officials being saved? Are there any personnel savings? How high is the percentage of the total budget for Austrian security? I think you have the obligation to provide information to the Austrian National Council, especially since there are also reports in Austrian daily newspapers, for example on 20 June. February 2007 in the daily “Austria” – I quote –: Fewer cops, government is shortening in security. Massive savings in the security area. Mr Minister, we expect you to put on the table today clear figures and facts, what actually happens to security. Are officials being saved? Is there a security saving or not? Or is there what we want, namely more money for safety, more officials on the street, more priority actions, for example in Vienna, in the municipal buildings, where people in the large municipal construction settlements are now really afraid? We want to install a municipal protection programme with priority actions and more patrols of executives, because precisely in these areas, the number of house collapses, the property crime, but also the robbery has increased very much. The people of Vienna, who are sure to have a security problem here, want us to do something. If the Vienna city government does not do anything about it, it would actually be very good if the Austrian government did more and did more for the safety of the people in Vienna and in the agglomerations such as Graz and Linz. Ladies and gentlemen! Another topic – we had countless topics, one could talk for hours – is the 2008 European Football Championship. There is a danger that there will be outcries on football courts. There is also a clear word here, Mr Minister. You have actually taken a right and important path here. They said yes, we also want to apply the Swiss and German models of the so-called preventative for violent perpetrators to football courts. – This was a very successful model at the World Cup in Germany, where around 500 people – under quotation marks – came “in the pleasure” of the so-called temporary arrest, thus preventing excavations at the football courts. I think this is a real model, a good model, and that we should also introduce it in Austria. We should ensure that we are more secure There are almost every week excerpts at the football courts, and that is why we will make a corresponding request. Ladies and gentlemen! We from BZÖ want to do more for safety. We want Austria to finally become a security zone in Europe. This may be possible if an appropriate initiative is set up. Get a safety summit with experts! More staff, more budget! We need courageous politicians with courageous ideas in the fight against crime. We want to strengthen the fight against crime and the protection of our fellow citizens. Dear Federal Government, Federal Chancellor, Minister of the Interior, Minister of Justice – in your hands it is! Today, with our requests, we are bringing in a whole series of very good, very motivating ideas. We want this security zone Austria, we are ready to go this way with you too, you just have to distance yourself from such ideas as premature arrests. You must distance yourself from looking away, Mr Bundeskanzler, you must look! Crime must be combated, and a security zone in Austria is possible. The BZÖ as a security party is ready to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e2909	In order to deliver an opinion, the Federal Chancellor spoke. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e2930	Madam President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Many thanks to the BZÖ for convening today's special meeting, for this gives us the opportunity to talk about the security policy ideas of the new Austrian Federal Government. Since the urgent request is very broad and covers many areas of security, we will also be happy to take advantage of this opportunity and opportunity to discuss and debate. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In all the developments that have occurred in Europe and also in Austria in recent years, which pose a major security challenge, one should perhaps not forget, and this is especially important for the Austrian population: Austria is one of the safest countries in Europe thanks to the use of executive officials, thanks to the use of justice. And we want to expand this position together. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler, the safety concept we are orientation on is a more comprehensive one. We understand security not only as the absence of violence, but what we want to create is a safe environment for our people in a very turbulent world. And this, of course, determines the opportunities and possibilities of living, the opportunities to get a job, the social security, the reasonable protection of the environment and the question of physical integrity, which is also the question of the protection of body and life. Against this background, a comprehensive definition of security policy is needed if one is not only to deal with the negative consequences. The problem does not arise only where someone is being imprisoned or sentenced, the problem arises much earlier. And our political approach is not merely to combat symptomism, but our approach is to address the security problem at the root. That is why security policy in our understanding means producing comprehensive social security in our country so that people can feel secure. That is the most important thing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] They pointed to the rise in crime development. This is not to be denied in the months of January and February, but just as little is to be denied that there is relaxation again in March. That is to say, we will see how the development goes over the whole year and whether there is indeed an increase in crime in a medium-term perspective. But I believe that from the outset you always have to record first signals at once and also try to react to them. So what are we doing? . I would like to say, of course, that we are aware of the challenge next week, and that we will be presented with the Federal Government's budget, and without wishing to make budgetary advances to the specific figures, we are of course aware of the challenge and have therefore foreseen that, in order to point out an area, 230 planning posts are planned for 2007, for example, more than in 2006. – This is a first reaction because of course we want security development in our country to be a positive one. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Second, Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler: You know the Government Convention very well. It is noted that, if necessary, we are of course providing for a further increase in the level of staff, because we do not assume that there are dogmas in the security policy, but that: What do we need to ensure comprehensive security in Austria? You know that hopefully with 1. In January 2008, our neighbouring countries will join the Schengen area and we currently have at least 2 650 officials on the border. We will not be able to deduct all the officials who are now at the border, because of course we also need the follow-up measures of Schengen, but where this is proven and where there is a relaxation of the situation, of course we want to withdraw the officials and then use them where there is a greater need for security. In other words, what we need for Schengen successors remains there, and the other officials are trying to strengthen internal security, where needs are greatest, even in the future. I believe that this is a useful use of our resources. Of course, it must be clarified – and the Federal Government will pay common attention to this – that the conditions in the countries wishing to join the Schengen area are also met, because it is about increasing the area of security through Schengen and not getting additional uncertainty. But if this is guaranteed, we have a greater chance to use the police in the country. In any case, the aim is to strengthen the executive in public space, because the question of security is not only an objective matter, but also a question of subjective feeling. If there are sufficient executive officials in public space, the population simply feels more secure. – This is the aim: to strengthen the presence in public space. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We will, of course, constantly review the merger of police and gendarmerie. That's what I think is on a good path. The friction losses that are present there and there will be corrected. We have undertaken to accompany this control so that we can also achieve a more efficient use of the executive forces. It is important that the police also get their hands on the means they need to carry out their task accordingly. That is why the Federal Government is planning to improve the training and further improve the methods of the police, because it is about preventing crimes or, if crimes occur, to clarify them as quickly as possible, so that the sense of security in the population increases. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, there is in a large apparatus, like the executive one, also always black sheep – or red sheep, as you like – that do not behave as one should expect from an executive official. [[Call the BZÖ: But these are red sheep!]] The Minister of the Interior and I agree that, of course, all possible consequences must be brought here on the basis of the right of service, because we do not want four executive officials from several thousands to be involved in a process, the image of the Vienna or the Austrian police is characterized by these four. - No, quite the contrary! We want the good work of the Austrian executive to be in the foreground, and that is why these cases will be remedied. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the development of crime in recent years, which has so far been unhindered, has also had an impact on the work of justice and justice in our country. I believe that when we discuss how we can cope with the situation of overcapacity or over-need in prisons, we should be aware of one thing: It focuses on the safety of the population. And with all the measures taken in the field of detention – in all measures! – the first priority is that there should not be any restriction on the safety of the population. But I think it makes sense, for example, to say, that wherever there is an agreement, it makes sense for foreign offenders to return to their home country and settle their punishment there; where there is no agreement, it is still better for Austria if these people are released early, provided that they leave Austria immediately and, if they are not allowed to return, they are immediately arrested. I believe that this would be an important measure to improve the execution of the sentence and to get rid of foreign criminals or criminals at an early stage. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One thing I say quite frankly to you: The crucial question for the people who are in prison is not the term of detention. It is crucial that: Is there a risk of arrears? – The purpose of the execution must be to prevent offenders from falling back again. The main objective of our judicial policy in this context must be to limit, whenever someone leaves a detention centre, the risk of being withdrawn. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is best if he remains in custody!]] For we are not about retribution, we are about avoiding crimes in our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler also pointed out the area of sexual offences and child abuse – this is a very, very bad issue, which is condemned by all the people in our country, of course also by all the parties represented in Parliament. It is a very bad fate when children become victims of such criminals. The most important thing is to prevent this, because once it has happened, unfortunately serious impairments can be expected for the future life of children. I understand your concern, Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler. We have to deal primarily with the victims – whether they are children or adults. Therefore, in the future, in Austria, we need to focus more on how to help victims – with more victim rights, improved victim rights and also victim protection programmes. Because the girl or the boy affected has nothing of it, even if we still punish the perpetrators so hard, they need the support of society so that they can get the chance to live half a normal life again. I believe that it should therefore be a common concern to strengthen the rights of victims in Austria. [[It is in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as of Green MEPs.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! They know that crimes in the area of sexual offences and child abuse have recently been intensified. It is therefore necessary to check how these cases are now being applied by the courts; that is, I believe, an important task. If this review shows that the level of penalties is not effective or that this is the essential reason for ineffectiveness, then of course a reform can also propose and implement an increase in the criminal framework. I think this is a reasonable discussion, but we should not change the criminal framework every two years. We only raised it, we look at it now, we check it out. If it turns out that this is not enough, then we can also talk about an increase. I think that this is a reasonable access to the revision of the legal basis. My Dear Ones However, ladies and gentlemen, we should not overlook all of this where child abuse takes place primarily. Unfortunately, child abuse takes place for the most part in the families. Unfortunately, this is a sad fact. I can inform you that only in the last days around the International Women's Day have we had an exhibition on “violence in the family” in the Federal Chancellor's Office – an exhibition that was jointly opened by the Minister of the Interior, the Minister for Women and I. There have really been countless classes of schools visiting this exhibition, which is very good. I also took the opportunity to talk to these students about the contents of this exhibition. And I think we need to be aware that we need a greater awareness of this area. It's relatively easy to say: There are perpetrators, abusers, who are different from the family, there are measures to limit this risk. But violence in the family environment is one of the most sensitive issues in our society, because it is relatively difficult to influence by external intervention. That is why we must promote greater awareness on this issue, because if there is less violence in the families, then the general level of security in our country also increases. I hope and see, we agree that we fight violence wherever it occurs, and abuse where it occurs, because this is ultimately about the victims affected. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The application also deals with issues of national defence. I understand a part of your concern that you want a development towards the professional army; at least I read this request without it being explicitly carried out. You know, Mr Klubobmann, that there is a decision to implement the 2010 military reform. The Minister of Defence will carry out this with great commitment. I believe that this military reform in 2010 will represent the Austrian federal army even more as an efficient unit, according to the tasks it has. The Austrian Federal Army is the largest disaster protection organization in the whole country. The use of national and international disasters is done exemplaryly every time, here we strengthen our capacities. Secondly, As far as international operations are concerned, whether they take place in Kosovo, Afghanistan or elsewhere, the use of Austrian soldiers abroad is a high-quality one, but we will have to train more soldiers for this mission. In this context, I would like to say quite clearly: The Austrian National Council and the Austrian Federal Government always think exactly when and under what conditions Austrian soldiers participate in international missions. It is primarily actions that have a mandate of the World Security Council, because this is our practiced tradition in this context. But one should be put out of dispute: We will not be led away by any threats, whether they be serious or not, from the fact that Austrian soldiers continue to make peace-making efforts abroad in the future. Austria is not extortionable, ladies and gentlemen. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as of representatives of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] The European Football Championship in 2008 is a great opportunity for us – we should all look forward to this event. It is the third largest sporting event taking place in the world after the Summer Olympics and the World Cups. At this time Austria will stand to an extent in the layout as rarely before. It is expected that in these three weeks in June of next year it will total about eight billion This is a great opportunity for us to present ourselves as a country of tourism, a country of quality of life, a country of efficiency, a country of charm and cultural openness, but above all as a country of security. That is why we need to understand what a chance lies ahead of us. Germany has managed to change its image very significantly in the world with the 2006 World Cup, as a lot has been transported over the World Cup. We can further improve and strengthen our image in the world, which is a good one, by implementing this European Championship. Therefore, all of us are concerned about security at this Euro 2008. Images like the last one from Vienna Derby are repulsive – really repulsive! – because they produce two things, in addition to the fact that they are violent, this leads to those who go to the football match being restricted to target groups. For families, children, women will only go to the football court if there is no violence there. Therefore, such conflicts, as they have occurred, are a real ousting programme from the football courts and must therefore be discontinued. The second thing that will be called out – and this must be clear to all of us – is that, when such images are about the world, those who want to come to the football Euro-pa Championship in Austria ask themselves the question of which country they will come to when it comes to football courts. Therefore, together with the Minister of the Interior, we have agreed that in six-week intervals, I think the relevant officials will come together and, according to a clear timetable, all the security issues will be handled so that we can guarantee optimum security in 2008. We will, of course, draw on the experiences of others in this context. There are also a number of ways, in cooperation with the Minister of Justice, where more local prosecutors can also come up with faster procedures in order to strengthen security. And, of course, through cooperation with our neighbours and with the fans' countries of origin, we will try to ensure that people who traditionally appear as hooligans and violent perpetrators do not leave their home country at all. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] I am convinced that we will jointly organise this European Championship and ensure that the world is rightly given a good picture from Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e3049	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Scheibner has now been reported on the floor. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e3077	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! It is nice, Federal Chancellor, that you take the time to discuss the security situation with us today. We would also have liked to discuss important issues with you yesterday in the Constitutional Committee... [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer: What about?]] - About what? I assume you were invited to the meeting of the Constitutional Committee and therefore know the agenda. You sent us Mrs. State Secretary Silhavy. A general debate has been held on fundamental issues of the Constitution, relating to the Federal Chancellery, but unfortunately we have not received any information. But maybe next time, we'll have time. I only emphasize this because you are always saying that parliamentarianism is so important, but if you do not even know that yesterday was a meeting of the Constitutional Committee, then you may not be responsible for not being here, but Mrs Silhavy, who unfortunately did not answer us. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer: I know that!]] [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer:... answer all questions!]] - No, that's not right. But it doesn't matter, it's a shame to discuss it with you so quickly now. [[Abg. Riepl: Who started?]] Federal Chancellor! They said Austria is the safest country in Europe. – I am pleased to hear that from you now, because we have heard something else here in the House in the last few months and years about you and Mr Cap, who will speak after me. There it has always been said how uncertain this country has become under the previous federal government – I can see head nicks again. But, please, then, you're really great, because that'd be called after your diction: 60 days of this federal government, from which we have so far only heard disputes and discrepancies, have achieved that German chancellor Gusenbauer can now say again, Austria is the safest country in Europe. I'll tell you one thing: With security one should really stick to reality. I do not blame you, and I cannot blame you for being guilty of the crime statistics that have now been changed and of the bad statistics for January and February – not a question – because you have only come into office. However, you cannot now boast of being responsible for a positive statistics. We are now talking about reacting together to a worrying situation and putting in place the necessary measures and taking into account the current situation, for example the Euro 2008, which will be a real challenge for our security agents, and making the right choices, namely, prevention, as the Federal Chancellor has said; he only has the wrong parameters here, as I said. We are already concerned about whether you are going the right way here, because first reports from the Minister of Justice towards a prisonless society make us a little afraid. It is also true that, for weeks now, a budget here will be a great deal of agreement, but we have not received any figures, even in the Committee, Mr Bundeskanzler! Member of the Republic Austria has asked in a committee what the budget will mean, whether there will be more money for security, whether there will be more staff. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Silence! Silence!]] – That’s what they said: We have agreed not to say anything about this! A vow of silence in the Federal Government towards the National Council, since we say nothing, you can get the numbers in a week or in two weeks! – That makes us a little stupid, because that is suspicious, Federal Chancellor. [[Interference of Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer.]] – You will be nervous already, Federal Chancellor, otherwise you would not be constantly talking! Now you have had 20 minutes to present your arguments here. Federal Chancellor! They say – and this is the basic principle – that the security concept should be comprehensively – no question! –, preventive – of course! The social environment must fit, schools must be prepared accordingly, families too are an important factor. But with you, it is always “comprehensive ” and anything else, not only to fight the effects. This is so in the state defense, that is comprehensive, in development cooperation, in support – everything is fine. But when it comes to ensuring security even with the institution of the Federal Army, you say it is the largest disaster protection unit. No, Mr. Federal Chancellor! The Austrian Federal Army is also responsible for civil protection, but the most original task in the federal constitution – and you have not yet changed it – is the military national defence of the Republic of Austria and its population. You always forget that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's exactly what we're accusing you of being blind on one eye. "Comprehensive" means everything. They say punishment must not be retribution. - Good. We are not about retaliation, but about protecting the people, the righteous citizens – whether they are children or adults – from offenders. We are not of the opinion that the offender is strangely determined that he is only a product of society and can actually not do anything about it and that the remaining risk of a repetition of this act has to be borne by society. No, Mr. Bundeskanzler: We want the residual risk of the repeat of the perpetrators to be borne and not the population, especially among the sexual offenders! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We are quite simply concerned that there is comprehensive information that it cannot be as we have always had it, that an institution, a social institution, knows something that there is some evidence in the neighborhood, that the school also notices something that is not well, but it is not possible to summarize all this information and see that there is suspicion that something has happened, that one must also look more closely with the executive or with the help of social institutions to help children. This is not about data protection, it is not about any rights of suspects, but about the protection of children, because if you are against life-long for sexual offenders, against lifelong observation, then I wonder why you are for life for the children, because the damage these children suffer does not get away with for a lifetime! We want to do something for the children and not for the offenders! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Federal Chancellor! In this sense, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Bundeskanzler, however, we are also concerned about really discussing in principle how to better deal with violence by children and violence against children. They have said that they are at the roots – yes, but we also see the problem that, for example, we do not currently have the right to tackle the problem at the root of the offenders. There are children who do not see a reaction to their crimes in schools, for example, because they are only 12 or 13 years old, and they are then the first to be in penitentiary homes at the age of 14 because that is the first reaction you are in criminal law with. Social institutions would be required to address this problem better than before. Or the question of the weighting of the violent versus property offences: From my point of view, Violent crime was far too weak against the crime of property. Especially as regards violence against women: These are interferences in the personal integrity that are not easy to correct again, like a property damage! Here, too, one could discuss how this could be organized and how to do something sustainable here. Or, Mrs Minister for Justice, how to You are dealing with this – your group has always opposed it: In recent years, we have just launched measures in the field of foreign crime, for example, against the free press of investigative prisoners and displaced persons from detention through hunger strikes, will you leave it, or do you want to turn it back in your mind and in the sense of your group? Are you really willing to postpone criminal foreigners? Or the risk of terror: Mr Bundeskanzler, you have addressed EURO 2008. This is a potential danger for Austria, and one should not pretend that with our friendly face and with the Danube roller we could stop anyone from pursuing certain goals in Austria. This is in addition to the security executive – you have said that 1,000 more police are your goal; I am excited when you will implement it – also a question of the Austrian federal army, and the Minister of Defence is also in demand. He has promised that he has increased the budget – I hear that the budget will be reduced by €60 million to €80 million. This is not about civil protection, Mr Bundeskanzler, but about supporting the executive in security operations, in the protection of property, in the protection of persons. Finally, it is also about ensuring airspace monitoring. If, of course, you only equip a Minister of Defense with the order to order a withdrawal hunter, and then he only says, unfortunately, he did not find any reason to do so in the Treaty, so if a Minister of Defence, who is advocating the Constitution, regrets that everything has been all right in this business, it is also unique in the history of the Second Republic. Mr Bundeskanzler, take note at last: It was all right here! Apply this project – it is necessary for airspace surveillance, especially for the defence of terrorism – and focus in security policy and in national defence not on your party political and ideologically motivated goals, but on ensuring the security of the country and its population: the federal army, the executive, the police, the judicial system. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] Everything for the population, help for the victims – but no mildness for the perpetrators!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e3232	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, tabled by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, Scheibner has been properly introduced and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e3281	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap. I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the 7 minutes; this is exactly the time until the session break. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e3302	Madam President. High house! Of course, this urgent request addresses serious and important questions. Above all, as far as the issue of child abuse is concerned, we agree, all here in the House, that not enough measures can be taken here to prevent both this and the fact itself. What surprises me, however, is the courage that the BZÖ has to do here today, as if it had come to the world politically, and as if it had not played a significant role as a government partner of the ÖVP and the Federal Chancellor Schüssel since 2000. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] This can already be seen by looking at the reason for this motion for a resolution, where the first blackout is, in the sense the “orange”-out, because the statistics of crime development from 1999 are simply hidden, Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler. There were fewer than 500,000 people, and crime has then increased in a blatant way in the time when you had to carry responsibility. You've had enough time to do something here! Now you can say that would have been successful if you had become Minister of the Interior. Well, I don't know if only the fact that you were standing at the entrance gate of the Ministry of the Interior would have spread fear and horror in the underworld – I don't know. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] But what you want to suggest today is: From the moment the BZÖ is no longer in the government, the crime figures are going up again! – This is wrong, because from the moment the BZÖ and the predecessors of the BZÖ were in the government, crime has increased. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The BZÖ! The Alliance!]] You have dared to look back slightly for a moment, on page 4. As regards the Ministry of the Interior, there is an indication that the ÖVP has held the leadership there for seven years. But this is the only reference to the last seven years. Otherwise, I cannot see very much from what you are aware of that you have actually contributed to government responsibility. I find the title of this urgent request: ‘The great coalition as a security risk for Austria’. – So if there is a security risk, then it is if you have an event in a guest house on the evening of an election day. It's a security risk! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the SPÖ as well as with representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] There's good advice if you don't stay close. But you, too, have taken this statistically into account – I have to help you do this. They say there's a crime increase, affected are the areas of property damage, burglary, theft, towing, minor body injury – that, I think, seems to be the point – as well as addiction offences – I don't suppose that was the case there – but “light body injury” might be. But I don't have to clarify that, that's to be clear elsewhere. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] That is, the question that arises is simple and simple: Are you the right person for this urgent request today? Are you even the right person? And I think we all agree: No, you're not the right ones! [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] I think we can agree on this consensus. The best proof is also: You always have the perpetrators. But where are the victims? – It was very important that the Federal Chancellor asked: What about the victim protection, with the right to sacrifice? - They don't happen to you! Here I come to page 2 – I have really looked at it carefully, it is worth reading through. Under “Drug and Foreign Crime” – which is almost like a new form of patriotism – only foreigners appear, and that is objectionable! No single person is to be pardoned, but when you read the text through, you almost have the impression: Only the foreign drug dealers and not the domestics will be punished! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is stupid!]] – Please read the text! I was amazed when I read that, and I asked myself: What does that mean? The foreign drug dealer is to be arrested and punished and then sent to where he came from. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's cabaret again! It's already overlaid!]] - It's not overlaid! It's missing here. I would read my own urgent requests more precisely; that might not be so bad. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Security is not a cabaret!]] At any rate, I found this surprising and asked myself: What about the domestic drug dealer? – I do not spare this comment because you have put this emphasis on five, six, seven points here. That bothers me too. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: “The boat is full!” – The boat was already full!]] I work politically in Hernals, I am a Member of Parliament. We have had problems there with drug dealers, very right, in this case from Nigeria. And I am very committed to the fact that there are clear conditions that there is really something going on – no question! – but not with this focus in this form. I agree with you – my previous speaker spoke, which was particularly courageous, because he was the former Minister of Defence, who had had a veto right when ordering the Eurofighters at the time, but he did not make use of it. This is the most expensive waste of money in the Second Republic: There are 2.5 billion out there and the remaining 2.5 billion € later outside. Minister of Defence Scheibner! You would have had the opportunity to prevent this, then you do not need in this request line by line about the fact that the German army has no money! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We know that ourselves. In the various arms holes are lamented, in the barracks is lamented, in the supply is lamented because there is no money on the back and on the front. This pity has already begun in your time. And you kept all the money that was available scratched and used it for the purchase of the Eurofighters – in perspective. No one takes this responsibility from you – but regret it, please, not around! Last point: Page 8 of the application. I am surprised to note how 13 points are raised in the proposal here, including the use of police forces against organised crime, drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings and towing than against individual crimes. - I don't think I'm reading right! That must mean, as well. Then: It doesn't help the viewer if it just breaks into his apartment, and it's not just an organized break-in, it's a spontaneous break-in that you make a difference. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 90 percent organized crime!]] I want all the crimes to be fought, and not as you just see it: the organized yes, the unorganized no. Then one comes and asks: Was this organized, Mr. President-in-Office? And he says: No, I don't have the impression! – Oh, bad, then I'll come by in half an hour later! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's probably not how the differentiation can take place! And so that you don't wonder now, Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler: In two, three passages today, I tried to reach your level. I didn't succeed.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e3490	I am now interrupting the sitting by 1.15 p.m. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e3524	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Missethon. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e3555	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) – The government bank is empty. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Sorry: But it's sad that she's empty!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of security – and I am very grateful that there is this “security day” in Parliament today – is a very central issue for us, for the ÖVP. This issue is particularly reflected in the Intergovernmental Agreement, where we said integration must be addressed before immigration. I personally am here with the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany when he says that the fights against symptoms on crime are too few. I also believe that we need to look more closely at this: Where do such crime phenomena develop? Where may cultural differences develop in this area, resulting in results that we then find in crime statistics? I am very clear to you my personal opinion on the question of immigration. I think if anyone comes to us – and I have a very clear position – he first has three obligations to fulfil before we talk about the rights: The first duty is to learn German; the second duty is to want to work; and the third duty is to fit into our order of life! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I do not expect any subordinates, but I expect a classification, and I expect - I say this very clearly - respect for our living orders and respect for our values. I am therefore in my definition of what integration means. – Integration means learning our rules for the game for me, and this is primarily a achievement that those who come to us – and not the other way round. That is to say, it is quite clear to us that, from my point of view, we need to make more clear to the people who come to us what our values and what our respective life systems are, which are also in law. I also say: In some cases, immigrants may have to say goodbye to cultural characteristics which are quite common in the countries of origin. It is not possible in Austria that children are married against their will, and it is not in Austria that they are forced to circumcise daughters! I can't! Cultural characteristics must also be stored here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore important that we consider together: How can we make it clearer to immigrants what are in our lives? Estimated Minister of Justice! Yesterday, on the “Kurier” Internet, I was very concerned about a story from Germany that we should talk about, including in this House. In Germany, a German judge has appealed to the Koran in her judgment and a mistreated wife has prohibited premature divorce. I now quote from this “Kurier” Internet report: Here a man beat his wife, threatened her with murder. This woman and this family are from Morocco, and the woman wanted to get divorced as quickly as possible. However, a German judge rejected the application. Reasons: The breeding of women is planned in the Qur'an. [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: The Austrian authorities are pushing the wives off!]] Ladies and gentlemen, that is a very serious thing. That is because the Koran supposedly allows men to beat her wives, a German judge refuses the premature divorce of a wife beaten by her husband! Chastisement right – that is, for me, the man may beat. This judge has expressly referred to a Koransur in her statement of judgment. In this Qur'an is inside: Therefore, virtuous women are obedient, those who keep secrets with the help of Allah, and those whose infidelity you fear, exhort them, avoid them in the marriage bed, and beat them. Ladies and gentlemen, we should make it clear that the basic laws apply to us in Austria and not the Sharia! This is a development that concerns me, and here we should make early clarifications about those who come to us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Second point: the issue of sexual offenders. And I say very clearly the position of the People's Party: We must provide a framework of protection for children and young people to be able to grow up in safety. That's our job, ladies and gentlemen. We have had criminal intensifications in recent years, but the case law is too mild from our point of view. From my point of view, this is also acceptable, and I also read an article from 16th century onwards. 2. from the “Kurier” before: “Unusual mildness recently led to the Vienna Oberlandesgericht (OLG) in the case of a tennis teacher who had abused a girl who was only ten years old. Instead of a six-year imprisonment, the OLG as an appeal authority imposed only a fine of 3,600 euros on the man. ==References====External links== On 1 August 2005, the girl took her home after class, where he showered with her and then massaged her naked. There were intimate contacts...” – citations. Ladies and gentlemen, I have no understanding that you can buy yourself out of such a crime! I don't understand that. Here we are for severe punishment. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What does the Minister of Justice do about it?]] We are also in favour of more thought on the field of occupational ban. Or does this tennis teacher teach tennis again today – perhaps with little girls? There's been a little irritation with the judge association. I say this very clearly: No one here wants to question the independence of the courts in any way. But I also say to the President of the Judicial Association: The House is responsible for the legislation, and here I also expect respect for our agendas! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the security of Austria is inseparably linked to participation in European integration. Europe is working. Young people do not want to leave the EU. It's clear to us: In times of globalisation, Europe is the answer to the questions of time – also in the fields of security. We have to celebrate the Roman Treaties in the next few days. In this sense, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] It's clear to us: Europe is also our home – and Europe is also red-and-white-red!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e3675	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e3822	The next item is the report by Mr Pilz. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e3844	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a brief comment on Mr Missethon, my predecessor. I believe, Mr President, that you probably were not aware of the dangerous contribution you have made to Austrian security policy with your speech. Whoever alerts people in Austria that their creed must necessarily lead to the oppression of the woman, he explores the Qur'an just as there are others who explore the Bible in the same way. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[New condolences with the greens.]] There are restrictive, anti-human and, in particular, anti-female interpretations of all and all major religions of this world, and there are interpretations of all religions of this world that are women-friendly, open and appropriate to our European system of values. And the people who, for example, fight for these interpretations in the Arab countries and have enough political and personal difficulty with it and who, under severe conditions, do persuasive work there to discredit and defamate here from a safe place of the Austrian National Council is a strong and unusual piece! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'm trying to think of one thing: Is it a contribution to the Austrian security policy to signal an entire community of faith that what it believes is false and incorruptible? – And this is the crucial point where security policy divides us, namely to support and promote the open, partnership, democratic and humanist tendencies in Christianity and Islam and in other religions alike. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Cap pointed out the courage of the BZÖ, the courage of Mr Westenthaler. I quote from a relevant career of a relevant person with relevant professional experience, I quote from a request from the Austrian Federal Council: ‘Mr. Kobal is officially arrested for illegal use of arms in 1994 and, subsequently, in the Federal Republic of Germany, has the same trade (including as a bodyguard Jörg Haider) as a result, is legally sentenced in the Federal Republic of Germany for fraud and need, and subsequently in Austria has the same trade (including as a bodyguard Jörg Haider), is brought to court in 2000 for banned possession of firearms, nevertheless, obviously receives the missing concession which he no longer has since June 2006 and” then appears at an election ceremony of the BZÖ with orange tie and the known consequences. We must talk about the principles of the BZÖ's security policy, regardless of the size and importance of this group. Could it be that one is detained for a crime, declared and postponed for the three times repeat of the same crime, and then, if one has repeated the offence eight times, is hired by the BZÖ? What idea of resocialization is that? [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Westenthalers!]] If there is a resocialization project Ing. Westenthalers for Wirtshausraufer with a political background: What is the size of the group of persons involved in this resocialisation offer? And what else do we have to fear from the future bodyguards of the clubman Westenthaler? If you are proposing that a barracks be converted into a prison, is there to be a tractor for bodyguards immediately? [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] How's this going to go on? I believe that some of us are talking about today and will judge the courts in the future and have a certain political background will be very pleased that there is the possibility of conditional punishment in Austria. Mr Westenthaler, you should really make that happen in good time and in your personal and political environment. It makes sense to judge in Austria, regardless of political backgrounds, to judge with respect and reason. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I believe that the problem of the strange resocialisation projects of Mr Westenthaler will be dealt with by itself by the next National Council election, and that is why we will no longer have to deal with it so often in this House. The problems of the Vienna police need a much more precise and serious discussion. It is talking about individual cases, and it is true that in criminal police there are similar events in other European and non-European countries. But there are individual cases. Our problem, our political and security problem, is not the individual cases that are bad enough, but is the problem where it is not unfounded that the individual case is becoming almost a regular case and that part of a criminal police leadership is suspected of having to be hardened and checked, but also a political component. And the political component is: Who of those responsible has looked away from here for years? I remember that the advertisement at the Federal Police Directorate in Schwechat was repaid years ago and landed on the table of an ÖVP Minister of the Interior, from where she took the usual way into a desk drawer. About Horngacher and others there have been all the necessary clues for years, and three Interior Ministers – all of them from the same party! – have failed all the necessary steps to establish proper and legal conditions at the head of the Vienna Criminal Police. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (relating to the textual hand of the speaker) What is that greeting you make with the three fingers stretched out? It's so fast! Three beers?]] For me, this is unexplainable political failure! And it is high time that those who are responsible for it – especially the minister of the Interior in office – informed us about how these well-known and serious conditions could be ignored for years in the Vienna Executive. There is a political responsibility for this! And this political responsibility in the area of the Austrian People's Party, a self-appointed security party, is now finally to be clarified in public and also in parliamentary terms – with great delay. [[Abg. Hear: Six weeks!]] Then there is another point, and that is the question of proportionality. – What security republic do we live in if, on the one hand, there is incomprehensible mildness against brothel owners and traffickers and on the other hand incomprehensible hardships against people born in Austria who have received their training in Austria and who also want to enter their professional life in Austria? Only because a request has been made too late, only because their parents or grandparents do not come from Austria, are people who are Austrians and Austrians, here born Austrians – in our opinion, with all the same rights as the Members of this House – treated in a way that I have not yet been accommodated by the group of people in the Red Light scene. And I recommend proportionality and eye-to-eye here. It is about protecting unspoiled people, who are not only of great economic importance for the future of this country, from such arbitrariness and, on the other hand, ensuring that not only in Vienna the people, the citizens, can rely on the reliability and seriality of the executive. [[Congratulation with the greens and the agglomeration of the agglomeration. Dr. Cap.]] One last thing, because it is addressed, and it should not be mentioned: If, as a major security policy issue, the procurement of the Eurofighters of BZÖ and ÖVP is celebrated here, I would point out to you that you continue to bear the political responsibility for the dubiousest and most cumbersome procurement process of the Second Republic, that you still bear the responsibility for having two billions and up to five billions of taxpayers that we urgently need for science, research and climate protection. [[Abg. Dr. Schussel: But go!]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] And this political responsibility goes far beyond your security responsibility! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e3988	The next item is Mrs Rosenkranz. 10 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e4009	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, as a woman to the previous speaker of the Greens: You have demonstrated here how much one can explore reality due to ideological scams! We in Austria have long had a massive problem with integration, especially the Muslim immigrants, and this concerns us women in particular. Whether there are reform groups in Islam, this is a discussion among intellectuals. Look around the streets, talk to teachers, talk to judges, talk to doctors, there's a massive problem to recognize female authority! [[Calls to the Greens.]] It will continue to do so and remain that way. It is not true that they also place close attention on the fact that there is an insertion here! [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: This is a problem of tradition – and not of faith!]] Mr Missethon, you are also there at almost two decades too late, and I say to you: If we do not enforce immediately and on the spot that our rules apply to all, that it is not possible in Austria to send his daughters to swimming lessons in a public school, if we do not confess to that, then it will also be massively downhill with the equal rights of women! I can tell you that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We liberals say quite firmly: no millimeter back as far as secularization and equal rights of women are concerned! Now to safety in general: Without a doubt, Austria has a security problem. Crime is increasing, rising for years. The number of police working directly in the field of foreign service has also been falling for years. Citizens are right to observe: more and more crimes in the country, fewer and fewer police on the streets! Minister of the Interior, this is not a subjective fear or an irrational fear of the citizens, it is also covered by statistics. It will not be enough, therefore, to apply here the theory of objectivity, but it will be necessary to look into the facts and to change things here. Austria has a security problem! And that is a policy that does not take note of this fact! We have long been in the field of security policy instead of security policy. If the Federal Chancellor says that he wants to pack the evil at the root, then I am already quite surprised if he does not lose a word about this crime being primarily an imported one. Mr Cap! It's right, there's also local pickles. We have to live with them, that has always been very good. But why do we all draw to others? That's the question! [[Abg. Dr. Cap nodds.]] Putting the evil at the root, that is, also preventing foreign criminals from coming to our country. Not: Foreigners are criminals!, but there is a large number of foreign criminals coming to our country to simply and simply pave off our prosperity here. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] This should no longer be offered – especially in the interests of our socially weaker citizens. The others are intertwined in their villas, have alarm systems, have all this and that, and it's not that bad when once a car is gone. Those who are close to the budget suffer from it. So it is also a social act not to allow security to be as massively threatened as it is. So what are the facts? First: The increase in crime is massive – and that is, Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler, not for two months, but for years! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler shakes his head in no way.]] Secondly, It is an imported crime, essentially an imported crime! Thirdly, These are measures and laws which the Austrian Government has presented and which the Parliament has decided here to make possible or to express its support. To point 1: over a long period of time! – It can be seen that since the eastern opening of 1990, the figures in the area of crime have continued to increase, particularly in the case of the next facilitation of border traffic, when Austria took over the Schengen acquis since 1998. This can be clearly demonstrated. Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler, the increase in crime from 1998 to 2006 is 20%: from 479 000 cases indicated in nearly 600 000 cases. I emphasize: 20 percent! By the way, Mr Missethon, the ÖVP has been in the government for 20 years. But now you turned out here and said, On the other hand, we will finally have to do something, all together! although you have been in the government for 20 years – the last six years almost exclusively. Crime has, as has been said, increased by 20 percent in the last six years, and, accordingly, immigration. 300,000 new people came to our country under your Federal Chancellorship, Mr. Klubobmann Schüssel. We've often said it's a fact: 300,000 people came new to our country, 144,000 citizens in this period! Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler! To demand that this policy – they call it restrictive, of course, it was not – is a threat, is a dangerous threat and not an announcement! Everything has to be different! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To point 2: Crime is imported. – Again: I do not want to be confronted with this record that we would claim that foreigners are criminal. No, no, no, We're attracting criminals from abroad. They shall determine: Here it goes quite simply, they live in prosperity, and they let them take away simply and simply! And if something happens, nothing happened because the criminal threat of a stay in an Austrian prison is zero for a Georgian. – We simply need to know that! It can't be that the number of Austrian criminals explodes by year and our people become more and more criminal. Whoever reads the newspaper, it is rare for Burgenländer to pick up on a tireless organization or to rot Steirer in order to plunder our villas here in a commercial way. These are always other nationalities that make it commercial. Another number: 42 percent of the prisoners are non-Austrian citizens, only nine percent of the population does not have Austrian citizenship. That means it won't be the best from outside to us. – Why? Now a statement from your house's security report, Minister of the Interior: Black Africans are heavily involved in drug trafficking. Road trade is particularly affected. This market – as it says in the report – is effectively dominated by this group of perpetrators. It would be something if you just put it off! By the way, it is most common as asylum seekers in our country – also a fact that is particularly regrettable, because the Austrian taxpayer thus also provides cost and logis. It is also obvious that house break-ins, robbery, theft are the work of professional criminals who make it commercial and come to us because here we – I say it again – are so easy. And these things are all in line with the fact that we have laws and regulations that make this possible. So I reached the third point: It is the conditions created by Austrian politics that make this possible. No one's supposed to talk out of it! That's done – by the way: that's comforting! – and therefore it can be reversed again. Here in this house the rethinking must take place! What do the conditions look like? – One of these is the fact that our asylum system is far from the original purpose of asylum. There are not people coming to us – that is certainly the least number – who for humanitarian reasons are rightly looking for protection from persecution here – they certainly all know the Geneva Convention – but many come here because they want to have a residence permit – and then they get it – which allows them to make everything possible for them to put criminal acts. What is it like in the European comparison? – We still have five times as many asylum seekers per capita as Germany, Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler. So we can't say – I still have this as a word shell in my ear, I have to hear it again and again –: Austria is the safest country in Europe and has the sharpest asylum law! – That’s all wrong! Secondly, it is, of course, related to border control. It's quite clear: Every time a border has gone up, crime has increased. We do not already have this under control and we are addressing the next disaster. ==References====External links== In January 2008, the northern border in Austria will no longer function as an internal border, but the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovakia and so on will be the Schengen external border. What does that mean? - We're breaking down border controls. We ourselves do not want to control. We liberals believe that this is not possible, because the number of attacks clearly shows how narrow these borders are already there and how many people so to speak we have here with us. For example: 65 percent of all people entering the country travel either through Hungary, through the Czech Republic or through Slovakia. Therefore, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am already aware of the need for a little backbone and a little courage to implement it in Brussels. This must not be done as at the ecopoints or at TemelÃn or at the Beneš decrees. But there's a lot at stake! Again: We do not already have it under control, and there will be a tremendous increase in crime if we simply let it happen that way! Everything else would be a miracle. I am convinced that you and we owe Austrians the right to go straight to Brussels and not sacrifice the Austrian interests at the Brussels age! I'll tell you one more thing: We will not let ourselves be eaten off by you telling us that you have installed these and those systems there – the last sentence – and that cooperation is excellent. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] We attach importance to the fact that facts are used for the assessment! Only then, when we are sure that no one is going in, can you move the Schengen border out!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e4165	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e4244	Mr Platter has now spoken. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e4266	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is a fact that has already become a matter of course: Austria is one of the safest countries in the world! However, we strive daily to ensure this high standard of safety. That means that it is necessary that law and order exist in Austria and not injustice and disorder! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Then: First of all, security is undoubtedly a fundamental right for the population, and second, security is also incredibly important for the quality of life of the people in Austria. And thirdly, security is central to Austria's economic location. We have been trying for years to reduce the crime attack. And when I look at the statistics, I can see that when we compare 2004 with 2005, we have 6 percent fewer crime cases. And when I look at the development of crime from 2005 to 2006, I can say that in the field of crime we have a decrease of 2.6 percent. It is true that we had a crime increase in January and February, but one must say quite clearly: The review period January – February, that is, only two months, is very short, and of course we need to extend the lighting period in order to be able to make a final assessment. And I can already say that the number of crime cases will go back. But one thing I would also like to say: As Minister of the Interior, I don't care! I take these things seriously! As soon as changes are made here, action must be taken. For this reason, I am currently on my way to every federal state and I myself have security strategy talks – with the Federal Criminal Office, with those responsible in the countries, with the Security Director, with the state police commander, with the district leaders, so that we can take precise action. It is a difference whether I am talking about the development of crime in Bregenz, where there is an increase in crime in the event of damage to property and in the event of injury to the body, and where the number of burglaries decreases by 11 percent, or of those in other federal states, where there may be more burglary thefts. That is why we react very flexibly so that we can take precise measures against crime. That's our way! It is a serious way, and we take things very seriously, ladies and gentlemen! [[It was in favour of the ÖVP, as well as of Mr Gaál and Mr Parnigoni.]] As the Vienna police were referred to earlier, there is also a clear word: We have thousands of excellent police officers, and I thank them! They don't have it easy right now. And we have individuals where there are problems, and we need to do so with all the focus in the field of service rights. This means that those responsible for their commitment must fulfil their obligations and get through with all the hardships. But I don't let the entire police in Vienna make me mad! The police didn't deserve that! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But you need a new president!]] Because in this debate we were criticised for having fewer and fewer police officers on the street, I have to say: That's not true! Please, look at the numbers! – A few years ago we had 21 904 executive officers in the field, while today there are 23,788. These are exactly 1 884 police officers more on the street. And this morning, some 500 police officers are being evicted, which are then available, namely excellently trained people. In addition, we're taking in 500 police again this year. So I would like to say quite clearly: We do everything we can to continue to ensure the high level of security! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am also concerned that we are continuing the technological shift that we are continuing the modernisation of the police. I would like to mention a few points. We modernize the computer equipment. We have 17 000 computer equipment or computer workplaces at our disposal. We have the mobile office. That means the local police have an office at their disposal during the investigations. In addition, we make video surveillance for prevention – very important!This is what we are going to expand – in terms of prevention of addiction crime and violence. We will have managed by the end of this year that all police officers will have a new uniform. The fleet is also modernized. In addition, we will receive a new cross-government digital radio network. The construction offensive is also being launched. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Summary: The modernisation of the police is clear and clear! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] When we talk about crime development, however, we also need to remember that international crime plays a major role: organised crime, terrorism, towing, trafficking in human beings and the like. But international crime can only be combated by international cooperation, and here, ladies and gentlemen, we are a model in Austria and Germany together. In Austria and Germany, we have started to carry out the DNA exchange, to provide each other with data. ==References== December 2006 will be done, and we now have 3 800 hits! We were able to explain murders and violence through this excellent cooperation with Germany. – That’s the right way! I am pleased that the last Council of Ministers of the Interior has succeeded in ensuring that all Ministers of the Interior have also seen this and made a statement of intent that they would make a DNA exchange. – This is the international path that is necessary for us to fight crime internationally! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It has already been mentioned that we are looking at the offences very carefully, as well and especially those in the field of child pornography, and I can tell you here: Our experts have succeeded in an incredible blow against child pornography! If you look at that, you can only say: That's incredible! It is exactly the weakest member of society, our children. And that is why I believe that it is absolutely necessary for us to look at the criminal framework in this regard – at this point I thank you for having already discussed it – and that there must be a ban on the profession for all those who are related to child pornography and who have to deal with children in their profession. – This must not be the case, we must prevent that! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The 2008 European Championship has also been addressed, and I would like to say to you: I am also a football fan and I am looking forward to this European Championship in 2008, but I also think it is an incredible opportunity for our country, it offers us incredible opportunities – but only if we can guarantee security! First: There must be no violence in the stadiums! And that's why there must be zero tolerance to violent agents. We have all the measures to put in place that those who have already been violent are entering the Hooligan file. A stadium ban must also be imposed on such persons by the clubs. Secondly, it is urgently necessary for all those who become violent before a football game before the stadium to be arrested. Thirdly, it is also very, very necessary that we think about preventive measures. I was yesterday at the Minister of State for Internal Beckstein in Munich, in Bavaria, where I saw that a very good model was developed there, as I believe. This model has a reporting obligation for all those who have already become criminal. These persons must report to the Authority about the period of the football game. And if the relief funds are no longer possible, they have been the last means of ensuring that violent perpetrators who do not report are also taken preventively into custody. I mean, it's already allowed or that we have to be able to think about whether it's possible in Austria, too, what happened positively in Germany. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You can't do that, the SPÖ is against it!]] Another point I would like to mention in connection with the 2008 European Championship is that we have great international cooperation. I am in contact with all countries that are likely to be participating countries. We will conclude bilateral agreements so that we can achieve one thing: that the Hooligans, known in these countries, have no chance of coming across the border to Austria. We will temporarily raise the Schengen border, provided that there is a Schengen country, so that we can take the best possible measures to bring about a beautiful football European Championship next year. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Last word on Schengen: Of course, it is necessary that the standards are met. We'll check it out, we'll be there. The evaluation committee will examine everything carefully in autumn 2007. Only then can the boundaries be opened up. But we will, of course, take accompanying measures. We will install an additional safety belt in Austria in the border area, so to speak, in order to continue ensuring safety. I am delighted, ladies and gentlemen, about this special meeting, because today we have the opportunity to debate security, but thus also to express to the public that we are one of the safest countries in the world – and so it will remain in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e4425	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Darmann. Desirable time: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e4446	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! I welcome today's opportunity to discuss in front of the population how "very" – under quotation marks – the red and black German government is dealing with the security needs of the Austrian population. As I welcome this opportunity to discuss, I should also like to say how disappointed I am about the political culture that Mr Cap and Mr Pilz have shown here. For example, Mr Cap has done nothing but abuse a meeting on "Security policy in Austria" for his own cabaret. It is significant for the Greens, on the other hand, that no sentence – at least not by Mr Pilz – has been heard on the subject of “sexual abuse of children”. – That’s really incredible! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We are – and that is the fact – currently faced by the Federal Chancellor in his statement with a dramatic increase in crime numbers. I remember: 8.5 percent Plus in January, February this year compared to January, February last year. This fact, however, should not be known to the Minister for Justice. It is only in this way that it can be explained that, despite increasing crime numbers and including numbers of prisoners and the fact that prisons are breaking, no additional prison space is to be created. Even the judicial body planned for Vienna is to be re-examined, which at least leads to a delay in this building space and the shelter room. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] Instead of taking money into account what it would be necessary to take into account the security needs of the Austrian population, and to increase planning points for the judicial system, i.e. the judiciary, prosecutors and judicial officers, is a cornerstone of the 10-point programme presented by the Minister of Detention – we call it detention – of the early arrest of foreign offenders, which should lead to savings in the field of justice. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] I remember the 2006 drug report – I know the greens will not like it again –: Each second foreign criminal is in Austria on the basis of a Drug crimes in prison. This is not an essential fact, and that should also be noted by the Greens. But I ask you, Mrs. Minister: How do you imagine the premature detention of foreign offenders from prison after half of the term to be paid? When I refer to this drug report and take as an example a drug dealer of foreign origin who is sentenced to three years in prison: Is this supposed to be released from prison after a year and a half? Should he be given the opportunity to return to his country of origin voluntarily? How do you want to check that out? How do you want to check this “return ”? How do you want to check that this person does not break the ban on staying, which is associated with their “disfellowshipping ” or, better said, with this“ voluntary return ”? Who's going to check it out? If this is the Ministry of the Interior, is that supposed to control the executive? And connected to it: Who's the cost? On the one hand, in the field of justice, one wants to save costs by not building additional prisons, no prisons, no prisons, and the prisoners, the prisoners, the prisoners, and on the other hand one has to shift responsibility to the interior, and the police, even though they have already brought these people into prison by their personal commitment, through hard work, again to ensure that they do not return to the country and again endanger the Austrian population and their security. We from the BZÖ are against this policy of open prison gates. On the basis of what has been said up to now, MEPs are bringing Mag. Darmann, Scheibner, Ing. Westenthaler and colleagues submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Another issue, which is at the heart of both the BZÖ and me in particular and, as I have seen from the speeches so far, also the whole House, is the protection of the weakest member of our society, namely the child. It is known to us all that only about 2,500 cases of child abuse become known in the year, while the number of dark is much higher. This means that there is a real need for more action. In this context, MEPs are bringing Mag. Darmann, Scheibner, Ing. Westenthaler and colleagues submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e4564	The two by Mr Mag. The motions for resolutions tabled here are sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e4669	The next speech is by Mr Parnigoni. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e4690	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! When we talk about the development of crime, about crime, we can not only look at it in the short term, as Mr Westenthaler has done, but, as Mr Cap said, we must also look back. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Not only have the crime figures increased massively since 1999, but the investigation has also fallen massively during this time, about 1999: 500 000 offences, 2006: 600,000 offences; Enlightenment 1999: 51,4, 2006 Enlightenment: 38,9. That would simply be quite factual, without any polemic background. I have always pointed out this problem during the seven years of the FPÖ EIA governments. Since 2000, about 3,000 planning sites have been saved in the Ministry of the Interior. That's a fact. , Mr Scheibner, with the help of the BZÖ and the FPÖ. [[Abg. Scheibner: Now it's all right!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: 2,000 more!]] They themselves were in the government, also colleague Haubner was in the government. However, both of you have not prevented the number of planning sites in the Ministry of the Interior from being reduced. Take note of this! You can't clean yourself up there. Actually, Mr Scheibner, it is not possible to understand who in fact was the greater jealous: Mr. Strasser when he's cutting down or you? This can no longer be determined today. You were in the government, you carried everything, and now you're excited. But the security risk, you've caused it yourself, that's no question at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This new government has not made any cuts in the 2007 establishment plan. [[Abg. Scheibner: 2008?]] That is why, as Minister Platter has already done, there will be new shots. This is still not going to solve the problem, but we will be committed to the way in which social democracy has always held that people's security is a fundamental right, and that is what we will do with all our strength. We will do this together, Minister of State, to ensure the safety of people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Darmann said he was disappointed by the political culture. What do you think about the culture of your party observer's encounter, Mr. Darmann? The question arises whether Mr Westenthaler does not have a bit of an disturbed relationship with the police. For example, I should like to remind you of the following: Westenthaler said in 1994 as a young MP when a police officer stopped him on a fast-flight – I quote, the “profile” wrote it on 13.5.2002 –: Don't you know who you're up to? It's a joke that you want to punish a delegate. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I won that, the trial!]] Westenthaler: It doesn't matter. That's the fact. But, Mr Westenthaler, in 1996, you were condemned for a very funny paragraph, namely violation of public opposition, because we are talking about political culture. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You quote a false case! I won that!]] [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] Infringement of the public offense! They were on their way back when they were driving fast. The colleague of the police stopped you, and then you slipped out so little comments. I quote again so that I do not make a mistake, from ‘NEWS’ literally: You're an idiot, a full-case, and you're a fool, you said to the colleague. This seems like you're slipping out – or it's your culture of encounter. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Also won!]] But of this form of encounter culture, we are extremely disappointed, Mr Westenthaler. You can take note of this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So, Mr. Westenthaler, clarify your relationship with the executive, and make it You don't ask who's loud back carriages! [[Abg. Riepl: At that time he had no bodyguard!]] And above all, I tell you that, and I agree completely with Platter: We're not gonna let the thousands of cops make you ready! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e4839	Next item is the report by Mr Kößl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e4861	Mr President. Ladies on the ministerial bench! Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The title of this special meeting is not comprehensible. It has already been carried out by our Federal Minister: Austria is one of the safest countries in the world. That is it and it will also be in the future, I am convinced that in recent years we have carried out very successful reforms, which are very confident of me. We do not need to misrepresent the security situation in Austria, that is not at all appropriate, but we do not need to beautify it either. It is certainly true that in recent months we have had an increasing number of crimes in some areas, in some areas, I say, and this is, of course, very different regionally. But I warn against causing fear and insecurity in the population. It doesn't make sense at all. I think it is very important that we do not use the crime rates of the last two months to produce forecasts for the whole year, but we Because of these values today have the opportunity to respond very precisely to this situation. I would remind you that in 2000 we discussed here in Parliament a crime statistics that reflected the year before, while today we are taking stock of each month and looking at how the development of crime in Austria actually is. This has been a very important measure in recent years in order to be able to counteract the new manifestations of crime, which have changed significantly over the last ten years, with efficiency. And I give you the right, with the withdrawal of the Iron Curtain and with the opening of borders, with the increasing mobility of people in the East and with the freedom of travel generated, of course, crime has also increased. Criminal tourism has found entry, and organized and internationally active groups of perpetrators have widened here. On the one hand, this calls for a high level of flexibility by the police here in the country, but on the other hand it has been necessary that we have set out measures that we have worked together better internationally in the police sector and will continue to work together. It was also necessary to change our structures internally in such a way that we can also successfully meet these new challenges. With the merger of police, gendarmerie, customs guard, criminal police to a uniform federal police force, double-tracks and overlaps have been reduced and eliminated. A Federal Criminal Office has been set up to combat crime more effectively. Further improvements have also been made in international cooperation. I mention only the Prümer contract or the increase in the number of liaison officers in the police sector in strategically important countries. It has already been mentioned that the technical sector has been significantly improved and various legislative measures have been put in place, such as the possibility of setting up protection zones or video surveillance. New analytical tools, such as security monitor and GIS, will successfully counteract crime in both operational and preventive areas. It has not only been the structural changes in the police sector that I have now mentioned, which have brought about a significant improvement in police work, but today 23 700 officials are working in the field of foreign service. I would also like to say to Mr Parnigoni that pears must not be confused with apples. If it is said that 3 000 officials have been saved, I must stop that today, compared to 1999, more than 1 800 officials are more active in the field of foreign service. It was, of course, very significantly saved in the interior. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] That was also useful – you have to say that with all the clarity. The external service situation, on the other hand, has improved considerably over the last seven years. The fight against crime, however, is not only a task of our excellent police, but of all of us. More attention and more self-responsibility are needed. In any case, it is very essential: look and not look away. And that, I think, is what we have to transport in the population. It is certainly necessary to improve and strengthen cooperation between the police and the population. Another word on the situation in Vienna. If, yesterday, it was stated on television that, among other things, the police reform was due to the escalation of the situation in Vienna, then I would like to make one clear: First of all, this official has been very much involved in this police reform, and on the other hand, I think it has been the police reform, which is actually the first to get this swamp from the police. It's the first time I've seen it. It is, as I think, very important to counter this with determination.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e4936	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Maximum speaking time: 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e4957	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Dobar, then! Mrs. State Secretary! Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr President. Do you remember Mr Missethon speaking in front of me? He is the new Federal Managing Director, the Secretary-General of the ÖVP. I have known him for some time, because he has already been a Member of the ÖVP before he became Federal Managing Director of the ÖVP, and I must tell you that he has not noticed me. I didn't notice him. He didn't notice me, neither positive nor negative, especially not through sniper speeches or the like. He has always been a Member of Parliament, who, as was the case with the last government party, has always clap heavily, but otherwise I have not noticed him. Now he is the Federal Managing Director of the ÖVP, and now he is truly striking great tones! The “Salzburger Nachrichten” speak today in connection with its demands regarding criminal law and sexual criminal law of “mists”. But that's not my topic. My topic is what he has been discussing today. Federal Minister! This speech was for you. He has tried to strengthen your back, because you are the one who, under the motto “Integration instead of Re-Integration”, wants to continue politics – and you have said this several times in recent weeks – the former Minister of the Interior, who is also Minister for Integration in Austria, Minister Strasser, Minister for Prokop. Integration instead of re-entry. – Integration instead of re-entry means that people who live here want to work well in German, to stick to the order of life in Austria, to fit into them, to respect the values of Austrian society and the Austrian rule of law, to have a place in Austria. Yes, they're supposed to have a place! But what is political and bureaucratic everyday is quite different. People who can work German well, want to work here, put themselves in the order of life, get deportations, get pushed, get put in planes against their will, stay in custody for weeks, separate from their families, children stay here alone. These people meet all these criteria, the Members of Parliament, Missethon and you, Federal Minister, are now constantly in the mouth. [[Abg. May. Hauser: That's not true!]] And that is what you call implementation of the principle of integration instead of re-entry! I say something to you, Minister of State: That's exactly the opposite! Exactly those who meet your criteria, children of long-term guest workers – my colleague Pilz mentioned this before – where the grandparents have already come to Austria as a guest worker, the parents live here, working here, where sometime even indebted small bureaucratic errors have happened, are often affected. This has probably happened to each of us before, that he has missed a deadline somewhere. However, this has a maximum effect on us that perhaps in the course of criminal proceedings the penalty will be higher, but we do not end up in chastity, we will not be postponed. Because we distinguish from such cases the fact that we have an Austrian passport. We also speak German. We want to work, too. We also comply with the rules and respect the value. Only, we are protected, we are protected by Austrian passports. The only reason for this is because this small criterion distinguishes them, namely Austrian children, Vienna children, Hernals, Ottakringer, Mürzzuschlager, Leobner, Eisenstädter or, I do not know, Lustenauer children, no matter where they are, exactly this inadequacy of the disproportionateness of the procedure and the disproportionateness of the use of mediums, which the Austrian security authorities show us daily. And these are the consequences: Mourning, deportation, human misery, human suffering. The fact that we have been so overshadowed and said that everything is too much, and, as Mr Missethon also mentioned, we do not want to do so, should not conceal the impact of the 2005 Foreign Rights Package on the Austrian reality of life of the inhabitants. These are the consequences, Mr Federal Minister, and they can also be precisely demonstrated by figures. Today, people who have spent their lives here depend on the grace of the Günther Platter. The intensity of the feudal system has never been as intense for the inhabitants of this country as it is now. The grace of the Günther Platter decides on the life-sickness of residents who have spent their entire life here! [[Interlocutory calls from representatives of BZÖ and FPÖ.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, has nothing to do with the rule of law at all. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I am now always talking about people who have not done anything that has never been tried – I am not talking about circumstances like that of Mr Ing. Westenthaler; I'm not really interested in that now – I'm talking about people who have learned German here, who have integrated themselves, who want to work in order, but who want to work here because of the laws that have existed in Austria over the past 15 years. And the top of these intensifications for guest workers in Austria, for immigrants in Austria, is the Foreign Rights Package 2005, decided with the votes of ÖVP, BZÖ and SPÖ, today's government party. [[Abg. May. Hauser: This is a popular hatred what you are doing!]] This party has not yet taken any note of what is due to the proportionality of the funds and to the proportionality of the action of Austrian security forces in this area. And that's the reality. Human rights – what is this about mothers of host workers' children who are insubstantial for weeks? Human rights in Austria – what is this in connection with the jurisdiction of the European Court of Human Rights, which has already accepted this claim of integrated foreigners in its Judicatur? Austria and the European Court of Human Rights? – This relationship is truly not a good one, even if it concerns foreigners and immigrants in this country. Those for whom Austria is home should not be subject to different standards. And it should not be the fact that one has the less sympathetic religion, which is crucial for how police and security actions take place toward these people. Mr Federal Minister, in the Committee on the Interior yesterday we tried to get a few answers from you. You have remained guilty of any answer. You didn't answer that – you didn't even try to answer it! – as you will deal with those 16 700 first requests for establishment in Austria, which are not processed as open applications here by people who want to bring their families back here. Mr Minister, you have not given an answer to how those 2 024 – that is the situation in the middle of last year – are to be reduced by people who have a right to family life in Austria, such as this backpack and this retrofit. They have also given no answer to the fact that, for many years now, people – often in the media – have been involved in the asylum process in Austria, so-called long-term asyl-werbers, here, are fully integrated, always according to the criteria of Mr. Missethon, as this question of 29 000 open asylum procedures is to be solved in the second instance at the independent federal asylsenate, not to mention the remaining 21,000 who are still in the administrative court. So far, you have remained guilty of any answer, Minister of State. But this is exactly your responsibility to ensure that there are solutions, and we ask you to do so. Not only today, Federal Minister, but every time you are here in Parliament, you will be confronted with these questions until you solve them!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e5037	The next speaker is Mr Vilimsky. Maximum speaking time: also 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e5059	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Just a brief comment on the comments made by my predecessor: I do not know whether I have heard the words of a possible future candidate for the Office of Public Prosecutors or if someone is applying to work as a migration lawyer. Mrs Stoisits, one question: Will you ever be willing to represent Austrian citizens in this role? [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] I can tell you one thing today: Due to the same number of mandates your group and ours have, we are considering sending a candidate against you into the race because the Austrians have the right to be well represented by an Austrian popular lawyer. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] In any case, I am pleased to be able to refer to the subject of security policy today. A bit curious is the case already, because the desire for the discussion today comes from a party that itself is now part of the police ad statistics and responsible for the fact that the number of executives goes up. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But you don't learn. It's a little bit like the Blind Association is calling up a seminar on colour teaching. Just like that, in this way, that is to be seen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trunk.]] Mr Westenthaler, have you considered why only about 1.8 percent of the people in Vienna do you vote, you have fewer votes than the Communists? – I can explain it to you: Because you're simply dishonest in your political representation and people don't believe you anymore. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Even though today the fight is already being debated, which is one that will still be judgmental, on the other hand the next banger comes today, namely that an intervention attempt by a former orange mandate takes place in the direction of the national court and prosecutorship, then that is the next scandal of the special class. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Incredible!]] [[Call the SPÖ: Shame!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In order to be able to debate the security policy here, one has to look into the past, make a status quo analysis, and then try to draw its right conclusions for the future assessment. The fact is that we Austrians have selected a German government with bombs and pomegranates – an ÖVP that has lost 8 percent, a BZÖ, which has just made the necessary 4 percent with the help of Carinthia. And my great accusation to this replaced federal government is that it has put the largest security policy attack on the Second Republic, which has ever been known at all. I can remind you: They have used the €5 billion to powder these into the air, have ordered a controversial and ominous Eurofighter, with only a small number of Eurofighters armed at all. The rest is equipped with photo cameras to cut any plane and then possibly to have a procedure resulting from it. While you have powdered out these 5 billions, you have saved 3,000 police officers in the same breath. I emphasize: You saved away 3,000 cops! And this is my accusation: You've been trying to bring security to the air here with an ominous business. What have you actually done? – They have given the drug dealers and the burglars on the ground the opportunity to continue unscathed. That's your policy – and it's good that you've been selected! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A few numbers to you: Under your aegide, under black-orange, crime has increased by 20 percent. 3 000 planning sites have been dismantled. The education rate has fallen from 50 percent to 38 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] And the number of burglaries has doubled. Thank you! Its balance sheet has been cast into figures; there is nothing more to say about that. But – and now I come to the future security policy –: In recent years, there has been very legitimate criticism by Mr Parnigoni, who was also close to mine. He said: 3 000 police are missing, 3 000 police have been separated, and the security budget is too low. - Right! I'm just wondering: Where's the conlusio from now? – You, the SPÖ, are at risk – you have the party color red; You have the party color Orange – or you are in public perception just about to be regarded as successor to the BZÖ, because your policy is only more defined by serving as a climber for the ÖVP. [[towards BZÖ]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What happened after Chancellor Gusenbauer had finished dreaming of his sandbox dream and had returned to the Federal Chancellery? – Then there was no more toys, as in the sand box, the ÖVP took away everything; but the only thing he really designed: He took the image of the dolphin from the wall and returned it to the ÖVP. After all, something! However, crime increased by more than 11 percent in the first two months: a massive increase in burglary, physical damage and injury. And I have the impression, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ that you see security policy a little bit like the subject of tuition fees or the topic of Eurofighter. [[Abg. Parnigoni: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] There you are in danger of sitting in public perception in a boat with Jörg Haider. [[Abg. Parnigoni: But please!]] They promised everything and kept nothing! And that's the similarity you can soon connect with the Jörg Haider. Let us look at the current security policy, what happens to absurdities and curiousities! The latest move: Police who have a migration background are to be preferred to Austrians. Apart from the fact that as a measure of a government, an administrative body, it is immense to its own citizens, it poses a variety of problems. Yeah, how does that happen? – Let’s imagine: A special deployment command is currently working with face masks in a bank robbery and one comes with a turban! [[Call the SPÖ: I want the worries!]] Or, for example: A police officer with a fundamental Islamic background is just in carrying out a arrest, but has to interrupt it because it is time to lean against Mecca and speak prayer. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] We have already discussed the curiousness with the Minister for Justice. There is a record number of prisoners: 9 100 prisoners! And their reaction to it is to abolish the General Prevention, to set 10 percent of prisoners free. And instead of trying to get a plan across the EU, so that the prisoners are also detained in their home countries, we simply leave them out on the street. Whoever makes such a security policy is certainly the wrong steamer! Ladies and gentlemen, now on the subject of asylum. - I'm from Vienna. We all know the statistics from Vienna. Any second asylum seekers will be fined. This is a fact which is so documented, also in the police statistics. What are we gonna do about it? What does this government do about it? What concept does she have for it? – It sets the variety of asylum seekers in the urban agglomeration room. And then everywhere comes the great wonder: Why, then, is it exploding around such an asylum home, about in the 21st century? District, Winkeläckerweg, the crime? [[Abg. Parnigoni: Do you live there?]] For a simple reason: Because half of you came here with the motivation of the asylum fraud. Then the supermarkets are cleared, then the cars are broken up and then the houses are broken into. The Swiss have a good concept in this regard. The Swiss define the concept of incentive minimization and give their asylum seekers not to the densely populated agglomeration room, but to the mountain somewhere at an airy height. [[Abg. Riepl: Big glockner maybe?]] There is nothing to steal, but there is also a good supply, but for no one the possibility that he would somehow be seduced to become criminal, and no danger of slipping in this regard. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make the following request in this context: [[Quoted print version removed]] There is a lot to be done in security policy. We want to take responsibility here and not release you from responsibility. We need 3,000 more cops. No question at all! We also need new creative models, such as in Munich, with a security guard, where committed citizens help the security authorities and where crime is really reduced. Munich has a 60 percent reconnaissance share, and in the red Vienna it's just lean 25 percent. I would also like us to discuss a reform of the remuneration system for the executive. The requirements for police officers have really become incredibly high. The mental burden is therefore high, one must also take this into account in the pay system. You have to re-adjust it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And above all – and this is the premise among which we put our entire conception –: There must be no tolerance, no tolerance in crime of any kind. This is a concept that Rudolph Giuliani has achieved with great success in New York. It could also have an example for you. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e5263	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Vilimsky is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e5327	Mrs Bundesminister Dr. Berger spoke from the government bank. Also, a maximum of 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e5348	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Platter! The first task of justice is also to ensure security and justice in Austria. And under this motto are all the measures I have proposed in the field of criminal justice. We need more security through a better execution of punishment. It is currently true that we can often only keep the law enforcement officers more and more, but we can't care for them. But we need this care in order to avoid arrears. Overcrowded detention facilities are also per se a danger for the population, for the inmates – you know the cases that have also occurred in Vienna – but also for the staff working in these institutions. I would ask that, when speaking of my package of measures, all measures be considered and not only a very selective perception of this package developed here: For example, the implementation of EU citizens will take place in the country of origin in the future will be a general principle and is also part of this package of measures. We save ourselves the costs, as it was once discussed, that we build prisons in Romania. We have been able to enforce the principle of implementation in the country of origin in general. We're making use of it now. Recently, there have been transfers of EU prisoners from Austrian prisons to their countries of origin. We have also proposed measures in the case of third-country citizens to ensure early retirement from Austria. We have also proposed creating additional prisons. I have announced that we want to rebuild a youth competence center in Vienna. There will be at least 350 additional detentions. Unfortunately, the Jugendgerichtshof has been closed a few years ago with the associated Jugendführungsanstalt. This has led, among other things, to the overfill of the institutions in Vienna, to very unsatisfactory situations, especially for young people. That's where we want to fix it again. I should also like to remind you that in recent years very radical savings plans have also been implemented in the Ministry of Justice – only with regard to the execution of the sentence has been observed, so that the arrests have increased by 30 percent, and at the same time staff have been greatly reduced. And we have a drop of 5 percent in the judicial guard during the period under review. I can already say here that in the budget negotiations I was able to achieve that we will get more planning posts. For the first time in the field of justice for ten years – ten years has been saved here – we will have more planning posts, more for the judicial guard, more for non-judicial staff. In particular, we will have more staff available for the reform of the criminal code, which will enter into force in 2008 and for which only inadequate precautions have been taken. We will also have more opportunities in the matter. It was true that the Ministry of Justice had already accumulated debts. We had debts in custody, we had debts at the Bar. We can repay these debts now, and in particular, how important this is, has already been emphasized by the Federal Chancellor today, and we can also provide more help for the victims of crime. I would really like to thank all of you very much, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for these solutions in the establishment plan and in the budget, for all – with the Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance, with the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, Mr Bures, who is responsible for the planning posts. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Sexual criminal law: It has already been pointed out that the last change in sexual criminal law took place in 2004. Of course, it is particularly important for criminal law that it should be advised not to implement reforms at very short intervals. However, I would like to remind you that in 2004, while some of the cases involved an extension of the criminal framework – and that was certainly the right direction – it was, unfortunately, abolished by a criminal framework, namely, with regard to the sexual abuse of a defenseless or psychologically impaired person, the minimum penalty. I think that's a crime stock – But also the case-law of § 202 para. 1 – where we can talk about minimum penalties again. In the case of sexual offenders, I think it is very important that we also link therapy with the penalty. We have had a very good establishment for a few years, to which all sexual offenders must be reported. The employees there are very specialized, make very good reviews and therapy offers, and we can also see the success: In the case of therapeutic sexual offenders, relapse rates are impressively low and significantly lower than in non-theraped sexual offenders. Since it has always been suggested that we need professional bans: On the one hand, I would like to say that there has been an intensification in the situation of loss of office. This now occurs much faster with officials. Furthermore, there is a duty of understanding between the courts and the public prosecutors to the public service providers when an official comes to proceedings with a contractor. In the case of private service relations, the criminal record certificate should indicate whether a criminal offence has occurred in this respect. I would also like to point out that the courts report to the commercial authorities when traders become criminal. What is very important in this context: In the case of those employed in apprenticeship training, the courts shall also provide a report when it comes to convictions. In other words, there is information when people in certain professions – public service, educators, teachers, kindergartens – have been sentenced; there is a good information system that ensures that, after sexual offences, convicted persons do not come into contact with children, with young people. However, it is also important that the service providers carry out their tasks. Individual judgments have been cited here, some of which are too mild. Each of us, including me, could quote individual judgments where the maximum framework has been used. The German judgment, I think, is, of course, a particularly harsh judgment, which will not exist, but I think it would be wrong to conclude from individual judgments, without knowing the overall picture, on a malfunction or on misdevelopments in the judicial system. On the basis of the debates in recent days, I would like to ask that we take the division of powers seriously, as it provides for the Constitution. There is the role of the legislator, that is quite clear. There is the role of the judicial system involved in working independently. I really have to refrain from getting calls that call me, as Minister of Justice, to intervene in the independence of the case law and to lead the judges to speak other judgments. This is a call for a constitutional act, and I do not like to hear such calls. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also a great concern for me to note here that, in all the criticisms that may exist in individual judgments, the Austrian judges are not subject to the fact that they act unlawfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e5443	Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. 5 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit; the remainder of your group's speaking time is 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e5466	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Minister of the Interior! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Very briefly, a replica on the statements made by the Secretary-General of the FPÖ, Mr Vilimsky, who has informed us here that you have as many mandates as the Greens. – This may be a formal vote because you continue to secure public support through a back door with 21 mandates – because you lose it in 20 mandates – but you have not left 21 mandates in real political terms for a long time, but a maximum of 20 1⁄2 – you have left five rows behind for the half. He's sitting in the last row, that's Stadler. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hauser.]] You got rid of it, you ransacked it, and he's sitting in the last row, and he's only sporadically there. I don't know who's going to get away with everyone until the summer, but maybe it won't be until the summer, that you've got a lot of mandates. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lutz Weinzinger.]] One more thing, Mr. Vilimsky! I didn't mean to say it because I didn't want to go to this level, but you challenged me. Do you know who's the great absentee today? – Your party president and Clubobmann Strache, who, as I have just learned, makes a holiday on a sun island. Maybe he doesn't make a holiday either, maybe he does some exercises there – instead of in the Carinthian pine forest now stops in the palm forest of Mauritius, decorated with palm leaves and coconuts. Maybe he's swinging from branch to branch right now and doing some exercises there. But one cannot, Mr Vilimsky: stand out here and talk a lot about security, always promising people outside the elections: We are committed to security!, and then, if we work here and want to develop joint solutions for security and crime, your party chairman and clubman will make vacation on a sun island. That's not going to happen! This is not a policy that we support! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This has to be said, because people are asking how seriously to take this FPÖ at all today. [[Abg. May. Hauser: Better than to be in court, Mr. Westenthaler!]] Ms. Minister of Justice! I do not have any decisive answers. I really miss decisive answers, on the one hand, to the points of your program where you stand inside, you want more premature and conditional redundancies. On the other hand, you want more prison sentences to be converted into fines. And you actually want to proclaim an amnesty in 2008 that prisoners will be released earlier. You didn't answer that! That's what moves people. If you do not believe in me, I quote you from today’s issue of the “Kronen Zeitung” from the newsletter page, where people can express their opinion. There you are wonderfully pictured on a picture. That's where a fellow citizen from Preding asks: Question to Mrs Minister Berger: Why is it that we have a higher crime and you want to release the prisoners? He writes – I quote –: “ Early arrests are the absolutely false signal – a criminal certainly does not feel deterred when he learns that the prison sentences will be reduced! This is the wrong access.” And that's what we're talking about. That's the wrong signal! I know you have points in your program that you can discuss. But the signal that came from your presentation was that criminals will be released earlier – and that in the event of increasing crime. And that cannot be the answer to rising crime. We have given you answers, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Second point. You have pointed out that from now on it is possible – there is an agreement at European level; yes, this has been decided in February under your presence in the European Union – that prison sentences will have to be punished in their home countries in the future. But you also need to tell people an important detail! This applies only to newly convicted people, which is absolutely useless to the present problem. There is also a transitional period of two years. So for two years, there's no such thing as that. And now the highlight is coming, and there, Mrs Minister, I ask You really are: How could you agree to this as a representative of Austria? – There is a transitional period, a “special sausage” for Poland. Poland has negotiated a transitional period of five years. For five years, Poles who are going to go to prison are not being brought back to their homeland, so that they have to settle the crimes there. Five years! I wonder, Will the prisons be empty there and the Poles will be in prison with us? - I don't know what it's for. In any case, it is not a good solution, Mrs Minister! And it's wrong if you think that so far has always been saved. In 2000, there were €800 million for justice, in 2006 total € 976 million, plus 20 percent. – That only for correction! However, I would also like to add to the debate the extension of the criminal framework, namely by means of a resolution tabled by Mr Westenthal and Mr Darmann: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is an increase, not as the Federal Chancellor has said, namely: Maybe in a few years we'll see how it goes on! – Every day, sexual abuse against children takes place! And I say it again: Whoever passes away from our children has not deserved a mild temper! That is why we need to impose sanctions, impose severe penalties, be very dissuasive in order to protect our children and families. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would like to make a second request, namely a resolution on EURO 2008, which I announced on the morning: Motion for a resolution by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, Scheibner and colleagues on the protection of an undistorted EURO 2008 The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Minister for the Interior is asked to ensure the undistorted conduct of EURO 2008, with the following measures in particular: 1. The organisers should be encouraged to effectively organise and enforce stadium bans and entry controls. 2. Access controls by the organisers are to be supplemented by the police, where this appears necessary in order to avoid the participation of violent or equipped persons. 3rd. The threat to terrorist acts shall be lifted preventively and appropriate protection strategies shall be developed. 4. A temporary border control in Austria must be ensured – at the time of the EM. 5. It is intended to examine the extent to which the rejection of well-known Hooligans at the border, the arrest, search, directions in the near area of the games and any necessary preventive measures in accordance with German and Swiss model are required. We believe that we owe families in the stadiums and the children in the stadiums to ensure that we ensure their safety and also take appropriate measures. Mrs. Justice Minister, that was not what we expected! It's right when the Federal Chancellor says you have to help the victims. You also have to take into account the victims I underline, that's perfectly right. But isn't it much better to do preventively everything that there are no more victims, but fewer victims? Isn't it better for us to actually block those who commit sexual punishment against children from society? Is it such a terrible thing to think that we do not allow such a thing to be done so that people who have proven that they are not able to keep their confused thoughts in check, and who again pass on to children and are also repeat perpetrators, are really locked away for life, controlled for life, but at least for life in a report card, in a sexual punishment file? That's our idea too! Unfortunately, we have not heard from you either, Mrs. Minister. I hope that you will take today's initiatives of this special meeting very seriously, including the motions for resolutions. We will not tire out even in the next few weeks and months to check how seriously you are taking these concerns. And above all, we'll do one thing: We will always show you if you really want to go through your demand program for early arrest of Sträflingen. People don't want that, because they feel threatened, because they're afraid! And that is why we will also fight for the interests of Austrians in the security field.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e5568	The two of them, Mr. Klubobmann Ing. Introduced in Westenthal Resolutions are sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e5678	The next speaker was Mr Jarolim. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e5699	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr Westenthaler, I did not really expect an objective contribution to your discussion. But you know: That you, with such a vehemence, and partly with – I would almost call it that – you ignore “intellectual fragility” all that the Minister has explained both here and in her programme, I am surprised. I have spoken about Mr Vilimsky in connection with your party, in particular the suggestion that it will only be more of a temporary period of time, that you, and I have to say, really welcome us with great joy. I have to tell you that. [[Congratulations on Members of SPÖ and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Left Alliance! A democratically elected party “implicates” Parliament?! Not bad!]] Perhaps only very briefly, because this is an extremely important situation and we can actually see, Mr Westenthaler, as you have dealt with this issue in the past, in the last six years, We have more and more pointed out that it is unwisely important in the area of sexual criminal law to take effective steps. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Parliament's harassment?- Oh, my God!]] We have also pointed out that the care of prisoners – and this is the international, scientifically unanimous opinion – is in the foreground. It is necessary to carry out a real investigation shortly before the release, including an investigation during the entire sentence, in order to know who are the ones who will be released. I can only tell you: At the end of your reign, a psychologist came to 120 prisoners. This is harmful, but it is also the answer to why it has become so dangerous in prisons and why it has actually developed from a solution to a problem here. I tell you, Mr Westenthaler: You are not part of the solution, you are the problem in itself! And that's what's said. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Because you're making yourself great now and saying you'd actually expected answers: Mr Westenthaler, I would have expected answers to what you have listed in the last few days, in connection with the clearly present criminal acts that you have delivered, namely several. I can say again: It's really weird when you go here and say, I'm sure I'm going to do this with a battling force made up of pre-punished people! Mr Vilimsky has explained this today, many others also: There is someone who is pre-punished nine times, because he is severely criminal, and then he becomes the protective force of Mr Westenthal. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler holds a panel on which the word “BZÖ” stands several times in orange writing and on which reads: “No excuse for child abuse! ”]] And not only that, but it comes to an incident where Westenthalers and consorts are trying to influence in an open procedure, namely concerning the BAWAG, saying: There's an attempt, we could actually help Mr. Flöttl...!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e5759	One moment, my colleague. – Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler, I may ask you to release the table again! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e5775	It's not leveling what you say or what you're showing, but it speaks for itself. That's really clear! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's not shallow?]] He then intervened for Flöttl because he was influenced by the Minister of Justice. She'll be too much, she'll even step back, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler keeps the previously shown table up again.]] I wonder what else you lost in the square. You are the true burden of your own party – no matter how long it will still be in here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And then it came to pass that the night immediately after the Minister rejected this absolutely objectionable desire to influence someone was defeated. He was not accidentally beaten down, but was beat down because Mr Westenthaler ordered it to give a heavy criminal the order to beat someone down. I really wonder, Mr Westenthaler, with what right They're even going to get out and ask a question here. You're so superfluous here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What kind of trash you're talking about! It doesn't interest people! There's no call for order?]] That's your understanding! When I go here and say, The most efficient thing is to be concerned here that someone who has become a criminal is not going to do so in the future!, then, Mr Westenthaler, I have to make this very careful, of course, then I have to try and see that this is really being done efficiently. But if I go as you do, that I actually use those who have become criminal, to make them become one more time, then here really, I think, something went wrong. Finally, I would like to say: I am pleased to note the vision of Mr Vilimsky, whom he has presented to us today, namely that you will leave, Mr Westenthaler, in Bälden. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e5844	Mrs Fekter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Voluntary time limit: 8 minutes; The Group's remaining speaking time: 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e5865	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr Platter! At the very beginning, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I have therefore formally tabled the motion for a resolution, and I should like to justify it now. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is a mistrust!]] We have, as has already been mentioned several times, intensified sexual criminal law both in 2001 and in 2004. Now we want to know whether judges have also understood this intensification in the Judicature and therefore also impose higher penalties for sexual offences. Red-green always voted against these intensifications at that time. I am therefore very glad that the Minister here mentioned from the Government Bank earlier that she considers these sanctions to be the right way forward. And I am also glad that the SPÖ has joined us in this motion for a resolution, which we have formulated here, and has brought it here together with us. That the population was always on our side, we knew, but today we also have proof of this: Through a whole new and young survey, we have been shown that the population is in the majority of cases advocating high penalties for sexual offenders. On the question: Should the penalties for sexual offenders be increased, especially in the case of child abuse and child pornography?, on average 87.7% of the population respond with Yes. For me, it was significant that women here call for much more sanction: 91 percent of women say higher penalties, 83 percent of men. It is also significant that of the younger respondents, up to 29 years old, 90 percent are still in favour of sanctions, while the older population here is 84 percent in favour of sanctions, still a very, very serious proportion. We also asked: Should a professional ban be imposed on convicted offenders for child abuse if contacts with children are possible? – Here too, we have received very significant results: 78 percent of the population are in favour of professional bans. It is clear from this that this debate in the population actually has great approval and there is a broad social consensus on the fact that sexual offences are not a private matter, but that they are perpetrators, criminals to be punished. That was not always the case, I can still remember debates at the beginning of the nineties, where one was rather at the tolerance level and rather argued for the perpetrators. Today we clearly argue for the victims. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our motion for a resolution also deals with the conditional redundancies. We from the ÖVP welcome the conditional dismissal if – and this If belongs to us – it is subject to conditions. Here, for example, may be the treatment that Mrs Minister has already mentioned. Here, however, an edition can also be a judicial instruction, certain places, to avoid certain dealings. And here, too, an edition can be a kind of professional ban that judges are pronouncing, in that certain sexual perpetrators are no longer allowed to work with children. We need, of course, to recognise precisely the danger of these perpetrators, a relapse statistics; we have such statistics in the Government Convention, and we are referring to the rapid implementation. We do not accept the fact that two thirds of the acts presented are currently not being pursued by the prosecutor's office. Only a third of them are either brought to court or treated to a very low percentage. Two thirds of the ads will not be tracked. That is very unsatisfactory. On the one hand, the prosecutor argues that the executive does not provide sufficient evidence that, so to speak, the soup is too thin. On the other hand, very many executive officials complain that they are sending them carefully to the prosecutor's office and then nothing happens. In order for us to get better knowledge here, the Government Convention already states that we need a recruitment statistics, and these recruitment statistics are urgently needed. We also have in the Government Convention a law-enforcement measure in case there is a martyrdom for victims. It is not the case that, if the same crime is committed repeatedly over a long period of time, only a criminal is charged. Such situations, which lead to a martyrdom for the victim, must also lead to an intensification. I think we have already implemented a bundle of measures. But we continue to develop, knowing that we are in the social consensus that sexual offenders have to practice zero tolerance.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e5953	Mr Fekter's report, tabled by Mr Fekter, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Fekter, Dr Jarolim, Mr Jarolim, Mr President, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e6044	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. 5 minutes maximum speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e6065	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank and here in the House! First of all, I should like to address a motion for a resolution tabled by the EIA, namely the EU. Honestly, Mr. Klubobmann's bowl: If one speaks of the EU in connection with a security debate and it is not even worth mentioning the word EURATOM, I wonder how much you are at the level of time and at the level of the debate. And if you go to this and ask the National Council for an explanation that is not yet available, to actively support the Berlin declaration you have referred to, the Berlin Declaration envisaged, then this is a bit unusual Process. That is the desire for Parliament to issue a blank check for a statement that is not yet available, and that is to be pursued actively. We would propose – and I should like to make an own motion for a resolution of the Greens, which I would like to point out here in the key points – that the Federal Government should be instructed to lay down some important elements for this Berlin declaration and insist that they will be included, namely that not only the declaration itself but also the difficulties in the European Union are being addressed and the citizens are addressed directly and clearly signaling that there is a need for change. Furthermore, an attempt to anchor a constitutional addition aimed at strengthening the social union in particular, and insisting that an Intergovernmental Conference be held on the overall revision of the EURATOM Treaty so that it is possible to get out of the EURATOM Treaty in the future without having to get out of the EU. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I believe that these would be timely demands on the security of the European Union. That makes me the real issue of security. The safety of women has been discussed several times today. I can only say to the address of Mrs Rosenkranz: I am sure that the equal rights of women within the FPÖ – they have two female Members of 21 – or the income shears between the sexes in Austria are certainly not individual religious communities to blame. I don't know what it's about the FPÖ, but I'm afraid it's called the patriarchal system. To the safety of women, especially to the safety of girls, but also to the protection of boys from sexual abuse, it is especially important – which is to my previous speaker's address – that you can't get enough often the perpetrators – should there be some single perpetrators to condemn even those – but that you have to start much earlier than with the threats alone in the criminal code. It needs a process of consciousness, so that about 30 percent of Austrians do not believe, for example, that rape in marriage is not a criminal offence at all. But my question is now in this security debate: Who, for example, is protecting human rights? Who protects unaccompanied minors who apply for asylum in Austria from the mills of the bureaucracy of the right of foreigners? Consider an example: A 16-year-old Mongolian boy was picked up with his mother-in-law, a physical aunt, and her grandchild at the Czech border. Imagine: The only thing this guy still has in the world is his nursing mother and this little sibling, and he is immediately separated from her, has no contact with her for weeks, is in psychologically very bad condition – and it is negotiated for weeks whether Austria is responsible for him at all; there is a so-called consultation procedure. He's been in custody for a month and a half, just because the bureaucracy can't agree who's responsible for him. This is certainly not a way of dealing with people, with young people who deserve a security aspect. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Or do we take the case addressed by the EIA, by women who are abused or beaten by their husbands and husbands in this case? It was great to mok at the fact that in Germany there was a senseless judge’s speech here – but how does it look like in Austria? off? If the wife does not have an independent residence permit, but is bound to her husband, her stay in Austria depends on her staying with this husband, no matter how he treats her – what does the situation of the woman look like? – They force them with your laws to stay with an overriding man or even not to be able to leave a broken marriage, with the right of foreigners as a cue. And finally, Who is actually protecting the police from the fact that individual police officers who are misbehaviors put the attacks that may go up to abuses against prisoners, whether in custody or in regular detention, question the reputation of the police as a whole and lead to the fact that the Human Rights Advisory Council is already asking the question: the police as a perpetrator? I think we need structural reforms within the police so that attacks can finally be dealt with and ended seriously and human rights can be secured for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e6153	I declare that the motion for a resolution by Members, as set out in the key points, is Magnificent. Weinzinger, colleagues and colleagues on Austria's future in the European area of freedom, security and justice are also provided in writing and are therefore under negotiation. In view of the extent of the application, I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. Copy and distribute 4 of the Rules of Procedure. In addition, this request will also be accompanied by the Stenographical Protocol. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e6310	The next speaker is Mr Mayerhofer. Time left and therefore maximum speaking time for you, Mr Deputies: 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e6331	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, on the Government Bank! Debates of the European Parliament These statistics reveal facts that are highly disturbing to the tax-paying citizen: Increase by 16.4 percent in Lower Austria, need for action at all corners and ends, even in Vienna at the highest level, an increase of 1.2 percent, for which in Vienna a fall in the education rate by 9.6 percent, is also to be thought. I am now making a connection to the current events in Vienna's police, to the bad mood associated with them. The disappointment of officials – from classified officials to senior officials and, in part, senior officials – is evident. I'm just wondering why all this could have happened for so long under the tolerance of ODP ministers. If the country police commander Horngacher has to be accused of such behavior, is that not because this incident occurs once, not twice, but media reports have already, I almost say, promoted two years ago – and all of this among ÖVP ministers?- Oh, my God! [[Call the SPÖ: Four years ago!]] Four years ago, thank you! Surprisingly, the ministers of the ÖVP have not stepped in. There's a suspicion that there's an ÖVP minister – how to say? – as an agent provocator, allow and allow this until at some point until they are able to accommodate their officials, brushed in a direction pretty black, in a leading and leading place. This will not reduce crime rates. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That would be a very problematic aspect. The disappointment is also reinforced by the fact that, for example, the small official has to submit a written proof every year that he is only allowed to receive micro-gifts. And then he has to realize with horror that an association was set up – “friends of the Vienna police” is called, was also short in the media – where in a strange way the gifts are collected and organized – but not to any social cases or orphans of police officers, for example, no, they are passed on in order, for example to Mr. Horngacher. [[Abg. Kößl: You can't tolerate this as a staff representative!]] – Yes, colleague, you also knew and kept silent. At least you didn't tell your minister! These are all the facts and inconsistencies that the inspector has to make with a normal sense of justice – and I assume it is – really become disheartened. The fact and the injustice seem to me to be completely incomprehensible and questionable, that, despite some paid executives, it has not succeeded in adapting the labour burden in Austria accordingly. In Vienna we have 36 percent of the criminal cases and have to deal with them with 23 percent of the staff. I also call for more staff from this point of view, which is urgently needed, and therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] By the way, I would like to thank the Austrian police officers most warmly for bringing such achievements to the fore despite such conditions – despite such leading personalities who have now been in the media for weeks and months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e6415	The motion for a resolution just tabled by Mr Mayerhofer is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e6504	Next word: Mrs Mag. Worm. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit; The remainder of the debate is 9 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e6525	Mr President. Dear women ministers! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. Federal Minister! With the conclusion of the Government Agreement, Mr Mayerhofer, a security policy turn has again taken place in Austria. For the first time since 2000, there has been no redeployment in executives in the next few years. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a clear signal that there will be a turn in security. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For the new government, it is central to protect the freedom and security of its citizens and to contribute to the maintenance and improvement of the security standards in our country, and to this we need human resources. Measures as well as an evaluation of the organisational structure in the executive. And that's exactly what it's doing here. Ladies and gentlemen, it has already been mentioned that the executives will not be reduced, and there will be additional staff at the moment when our neighbouring states are getting the Schengen maturity to ensure that crime is combated on site. An example from Innsbruck, Mr Westenthaler, because you said we closed our eyes before the increase in crime, before the increase in drug crime – we do not do that! –: There has been a petition in Innsbruck from the surrounding communities in relation to drug crime. The petition is: ‘Petition for rapid and effective measures against the drug scene and for safety in Innsbruck’. It means in this: “For a long time, a group of drug dealers in Innsbruck have been creating uncertainty and headlines. According to the police, this is about 70 people who provide the ‘scene’ with a drug. When they are stopped by the police, they often hide their identity or spend themselves as young people in order to avoid the punishment. Not rarely are they also involved in violence. A deportation of the perpetrators often fails because their homelands do not cooperate with the Austrian authorities.” – So the concerns of this petition. The petitioners now call for appropriate measures to be taken. And now I'm telling you: The Federal Police Directorate has put in place measures, which have introduced two protection zones, in the area of Rapoldi Park and in the area of König-Laurin-Allee. This is an important and necessary measure, which will be put in place by this Regulation on Monday next week. That's just one point. Identity statements – this too is a problem, of course we know that. Here, in cooperation with the Scheithauer Institute, this institute, which is also responsible for DNA analysis, is naturally provided on the latest scientific basis to ensure that the identity determinations can be made accordingly. - That's one. It is also, of course, that this regulation also ensures that overtime can be done and officials can be used accordingly, and that there is also a transfer of this crime to other areas, for example, whether the scene goes towards the main station. What we or whatever the population is demanding is that the corresponding agreements be concluded with those countries that do not cooperate – for example, in the context of the North African scene, which is often called Morocco – that these readmission agreements be concluded. There are negotiations at bilateral level and also at European level. That is why, I believe, it is also necessary, important and correct for Mr Missethon to be with my colleague. One of these motions for resolutions on joint cooperation within the EU, this area of security and peace, because action across borders is necessary. For example, Eurojust to expand Europol is something very important, and we have supported and confirmed this with this request. – Thank you very much and so on!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e6589	The next speaker is Mr Gaál. 4 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit, which is also the remainder of the speaking time of the group. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e6611	Mr President. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! It is about an efficient, credible security policy that goes far beyond the military. We know that the classical state defense no longer has the importance of the past. The focus is on international challenges, international tasks, humanitarian activities, civilian, military crisis management. Thousands of soldiers have been on the move for decades in the service of peace. And that is why I can only warn against displeasing the German army just because you are no longer in the Federal Government by the BZÖ. [[Abg. Scheibner: What are you doing? You're not doing bad?- Oh, my God!]] I warn of panic, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are well on the road with the Austrian federal army, as in general in security policy. We are in the process of implementing the federal government reform, taking into account the recommendations of the very well-functioning federal government reform commission. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, there is also broad social consensus when it comes to general military service. The Federal Government acknowledges that the general military obligation remains. In the past we have had a very good experience with it, there were thousands of soldiers around the clock in the service of the next aid when it came to helping floods, floods. This work, this important activity, would not be done with a purely professional force alone from the financial circumstances. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen from BZÖ! If you’re suddenly worried about rising crime and falling levels of education and talking about growing uncertainty: Yes – Mr Scheibner has already mentioned it today – this is the security policy of the past years that you have to take responsibility for, for which you are the prime minister of this government. If the incidents are addressed in the Vienna police unit, then there is nothing good to talk about here. Here are the courts on the train, they have to deal with all the hardness and justice here. But we should not be left unmentioned here – here I am with you, Federal Minister Platter – this is individual cases. Thousands of policemen are on their way to security in Vienna and Austria, and they are grateful for their successful work, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] But it should not be forgotten, in connection with the unrest and uncertainty in the Vienna police, that the controversial police reform of former Minister Dr. Straster with a reason is, which has destroyed well-functioning structures of the Vienna police, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: No, no, that has nothing to do with it!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Strasser has just negligently set aside competent, experienced security experts who find recognition worldwide, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is the origin of all evils that there are these hostilities in the area of the Vienna executive. It is all the more gratifying that the Vienna police – which shows the results of March 2007 – are so successful on the road with declining criminal statistics and increasing intelligence rates.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e6685	Finally, please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e6707	It is time for the Vienna police to express our thanks to us, and we have the human resources and the financial resources to be made available so that it can carry out its work in the interest and for the benefit of the security of Vienna and Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e6734	Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. Time left: 1 minute. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e6755	Mr President. Mr. Jarolim has accused me of two cases in which the prosecutor has determined. I only notice the correctness in the first place: Both cases have been closed; one is an indication of the Greens, namely Mr Kogler, in the Causa Flöttl. Both times were stopped, because where nothing was, nothing can be. But Mr Jarolim has said something, and that is very serious, we must not forget. He goes out here and says: A group – in Bausch and Bogen – is a nuisance for Parliament. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – This is the concept of democracy of SPÖ and SPÖ’s Judge General: A democratically elected party is a “distress” for Parliament. I know what you meant, and I promise you, Mr Jarolim and also Mr Cap, who always hold Parliamentaryism so high: If that was meant as Mr Jarolim said, then this is unacceptable, and I also expect you to deliver an opinion on it. If it was politically meant – what you might say – then I promise you: We're going to be much more annoying! Whenever it comes to fighting crime and protecting people, we will be bothered whether it suits you or not. It is not acceptable to accept what Jarolim has said here.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e6798	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I ask all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to take a seat because we come to a number of votes. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution 162/A(E) tabled by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues on the great coalition as a security risk for Austria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues on the establishment of a sexual criminal file and a data association on child protection. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Schüssel, Dr. Eins, colleagues on the secure future for Austria in the European Union. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. (E 12.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Rosenkranz, colleagues and colleagues on the non-approval of Schengen enlargement. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Darmann, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to more judicial institutions in the event of increasing crime. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Darmann, ladies and gentlemen, on effective measures to protect against child abuse and sexual offenders. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Rosenkranz, colleagues, on the safe preservation and rapid deportation of criminal asylum seekers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues on minimum penalties for child pornography and sexual abuse of children. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues on the protection of an undistorted EURO 2008. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Fekter, Mr Jarolim, Mr Jarolim, on measures to improve the system of sanctions, particularly in the area of sexual offences. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. (E 13.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Brigid Weinzinger, colleagues in Austria's future in the European area of freedom, security and justice. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rosenkranz, colleagues and colleagues on the increase in police personnel. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. [[15:36:37]] Short debate on the reply to the question 130/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7013	We are now entering the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for the Interior with the order number 130/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that reading by the author is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I should now like to ask the honourable Member Weinzinger as an applicant for the request to open the debate. Speech time: 10 minutes. - You're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7050	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The FPÖ delegates from Upper Austria, supported by the National National Council Club, have made a request regarding the first reception centre Thalham. I can imagine that many of those ladies and gentlemen who do not come from Upper Austria, Thalham, of course, is not a concept that they do not know that this small village is part of the municipality of St. Georgen in the Attergau, part of an outspoken tourist community. Very beautifully located, on the Attersee, wonderful, there we build a first-time recording center for asylum seekers. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: On the lake not! Next to the lake!]] We didn't build it, you're right, but there was already a refugee accommodation, an asylum home, and it just became a first-time reception centre out of it. The first answer alone is amazing. The question was: “Does the Ministry of the Interior share the view of Alois Lissl, Security Director of Upper Austria, that there was no increased crime through the EAZ Thalham in St. Georgen?” – Mr. Federal Minister or his staff say yes, they share this opinion. On the basis of the second question, he then issues a statistics on how many thefts have been done through burglary or with weapons in 2003 in the municipality of St. Georgen, which is a very small community. It was 59, and in 2004 it was 87. It was also asked how many shoplifters were picked up in this small community; each shoplifter is not known to catch. – There were 18 in 2003 and in 2004 it was well over 100. Ladies and gentlemen! I wonder sometimes when I read the answers to this question as to whether I was in the wrong area. I was there, I talked to the residents: You find it unbearable! In the answer to our request, it says: There's everything right, there's everything right, there's everything right, there's nothing happening. – Although we need 39 and more former Gendarmerie-, now police officers who care for law and order there, it is basically all right. – A community with less than 2 000 inhabitants needs 39 security officials so that everything is all right! Ladies and gentlemen, there's nothing right there, there's nothing wrong at all! There stand and lie around those who have come illegally to this country. Let's not do anything, even if we want to be good people! Let us not imagine that 100 asylumers come to us 99, if not all 100, because they are persecuted in their homeland because of their race, because of their religion, because of their political views! They come to us because they want to do better with us. - All right, I say, it's all right. Many Austrians have also emigrated to Canada and Australia to make it better, but they have applied for immigration in that country, and it has been carefully reviewed: If they bring the conditions, can they adapt our language, adapt to our culture, and are they necessary for us? With us you go across the border, throw the ID cards away and say: I want it better with you than anywhere else! – You cross the border with an illegal act. So you are ready to leave the path of the right as early as the beginning of your career in Austria. And these people are all sitting in this first recording center. – That can’t be a solution! Of course, they're going to criminality. What have we heard in the debate today? Any second asylum seekers will be fined. Ladies and gentlemen, you have to consider how you can change this. That can't be it, that can't be the solution. It can't be the solution that we say we're open to everyone. If we take up the poor of the whole world with us, we are poor ourselves within a short time; obviously, we simply can't. And above all, it is not possible for us to take up those or those who are able to come to us in such a way as to facilitate, even to offer, those who are willing to leave the path of right. I don't want to say anything to the Chechens now, but there must be a reason why the people are afraid of the Chechens, and there must also be a reason for every third or fourth report about an asylum seekers who has become criminalized to be a Chechen. - That must have a reason! If we do what we call for in a resolution we have already tabled, if we do not set up these reception centres in inhabited areas, not in the best areas, not in the middle of the settlement area, but if we establish such reception centres in the form of a secondary organization, as it is also discussed in Tyrol – even by politicians not close to the FPÖ, although it was debated by our side – once we jump over our shadow – we are a kind little bird, that is to say now – we must note: Guys, that's not how it is anymore! In the Burgenland directly on the border, far away from any towns, from any cities, in Tyrol or elsewhere where there should be, as one calls it today, a first recording center where it says: Young man/young woman, when you come to us, you leave us only when your asylum application, your asylum application, is examined and determined. If you're fixed, yes, you're right to be an asylumant, you're being persecuted at home, we'll pick you up! If you're not an asylumant, if you've entered this country's illegal act, if you haven't given up your identity, you won't come to our country! – That would be a possibility. The Danes make it up to us, the Swiss make it up to us. Let's not be better than the Danes and the Swiss, let's not be worse than the Danes and the Swiss – let's think first of our own population!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7092	Mr Platter, Minister of State, spoke on behalf of the Government Bank. His speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7113	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! First of all: One must clearly distinguish between asylum and immigration. It must be seen that immigration is a possibility that we ourselves decide within the framework of the labour market and the need that is given, but asylum is also a right. That is, it is true that Austria has always given the help and support needed. – You have to say that clearly. Therefore, a procedure must be carried out; before a procedure is carried out, an authorisation procedure is necessary, and for this authorisation procedure, the first recording sites have been installed, on the one hand in Traiskirchen and on the other in Thalham, on the other. I would like to say this quite clearly: Within 20 days, this authorisation procedure shall be completed no later than 20 days. This means that, as you have claimed here, this is not going to be incredibly long, but within 20 days, the authorisation procedure must be completed. I would like to inform you about the current situation. In Traiskirchen we had 3 500 people in the 80s, 89s. In January 2006 there were still 1 551, and now we have 556. That is, the situation in Traiskirchen has been greatly depleted. In Thalham we had 261 in December 2005 and currently, today, we have 147 people in this first stop. I have taken a picture of myself, and I have already held a meeting with the political leaders. I've been on the 14th. March in Upper Austria the mayor who invited municipal mandates, all political party representatives were present who had been interested in security director, state police commanders, district chief who was truly responsible for the police. So we were a big body, because I wanted to discuss: What are the problems?, what can we do, because it is important to me to take all the measures necessary to calm down the population. I would like to give you the following information on the development of crime and what you have said here: If you compare the other regions of Upper Austria, you will notice that this region of St. George is on average and has no higher crime than other regions. Secondly, I have put in place the following measures: We have a staff increase; it has been increased from 12 to 40 officials. I have already promised the second measure. We talked to honourable Member Fekter in advance and discussed certain points; in the end, it was her concern that this discussion had come about. – Thank you very much for that. We currently have two police inspections in St. Georgen. These two police inspections will be brought together, and we will install this police inspection near the secondary station, to rebuild it. I have already given the implementation order, that is, it will be implemented. This is a major concern of the mayor, a great concern of the councils. That's promised. As far as security measures are concerned, I did so on 6 June. March clarifies that the coordination talks will be held 14 days, with mayors, with the district captain, with European Home Care and NGOs, so that all of this will be discussed. I would like to respond very carefully if there are any problems. The house rules have also been adapted accordingly, and unregistered controls are carried out. In addition, we have announced – and this was also a major concern of the mayor and the municipal councils present there – a contact person in the ministry, so that the measures can be taken flexibly. I would like to say to this request for a debate on this subject today: I am pleased to be able to announce all these measures here, precisely because of the discussions that have been held in this context. I am convinced that this is an excellent way forward.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7175	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken shall be 5 minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Hlavac has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7199	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have looked closely at this answer to the question. I believe that the answers are very coherent – and above all, I think that the supplement that Mr Platter has now brought is very positive. It turns out that you can not only build a first recording center and then leave yourself, but of course there must also be accompanying measures. The statistics included in the response to the request show that the measures taken have actually been taken. One exception in relation to the one case of November 2006, where this is a special case, is that one must treat it naturally. It's clear: If crimes are committed, the perpetrators must be punished, regardless of whether the perpetrators are Austrians, asylum seekers or whoever. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There is no doubt that security is a very essential aspect, but I think it is very, very worrying if you try to throw all asylum seekers into a pot. If you say here that 100 percent of asylum seekers would be penalised, you really shoot beyond the goal. [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger: I never said!]] It would be inconvenient to argue that there are problems again and again that there are asylum seekers who are going to be criminal – it was also talked about these things today in the wake of the urgent request – but it is certainly not that every second asylum seekers become criminal. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] – They simply play with the fear of people and try to create a sense of insecurity with them instead of participating in what is being done by this new federal government, namely to take measures to contact the population to find solutions together and, of course, to address problems honestly. By the way, I do not like it if this answer says that there are no German courses in this reception centre because the stay is too short. – I mean, even in a very short stay, it would be good to hold German courses – and I would like to place this as a suggestion here that this should happen, even if someone is only 20 days in this facility. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: There are still in federal care!]] – In any case, it makes sense to do that from the beginning, the sooner, the better. I think we agree on that. The issue of asylum is one that has been working on us for a long time – and will certainly continue to deal with us. In any case, a whole package of measures is important: rapid and human rights-compliant procedures, decent accommodation up to the decision. And then, if someone cannot get asylum, there must be readmission agreements – as was said in the previous debate. It can't be the solution that someone can still stay in Austria indefinitely. However: Whoever receives asylum, who has the right to stay in our country, must be integrated as soon as possible. This calls for action, yes, we are all called for. I think that this is a task that we need to step up in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7267	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. Same time of speech: 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7288	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not at all a question of talking down or impoverishing any misunderstandings, fears or problems in the Thalham center in any way – and that is not even when it comes to criminal acts or facts relevant to criminal law. There is nothing further to us, and I would like to expressly hold on to this. But you also know, Mr Weinzinger, that if you are watching the situation there, the government and the regional and local authorities are trying intensively to solve problems there, with all the necessary hardness and consequence. We know, of course, there are fears and complaints in the population – as the Upper Austrian I know very well – but both the Ministry of the Interior and the security authorities, the Upper Austrian state government and the local government face these problems and have developed comprehensive countermeasures. Mr Platter, the Federal Minister, has made this very clear. Mr Platter, President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. and made community representatives familiar with these problems and asked them. The aim of this package of measures is, in any case, to make clear to the asylum seekers that there are rules that must be complied with – and that, if these rules are not complied with, there are consistent sanctions: whether it be a reduction in pocket money, whether it be a transfer to another first-up warehouse or the release from basic care. In any event, sanctions against such infringements will be taken consistently. And for all asylum seekers, there is also a very clear signal effect: Those who make problems will be hard because necessary consequences are to be expected. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I am also convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that the extensive security police measures, the Streetworker project of the NGOs and the Caritas, as well as the measures carried out by the Federal Ministry of the Interior, and in particular the consistent implementation of these measures will lead to a further improvement of the situation. However, Mr Weinzinger – and I would like to say this quite clearly here – we are also firmly opposed to a political strategy that seeks to blow up these problems in order to create a mood against the asylum seekers and against the first reception centre there. This is cheaper and forward-looking populism, with which only attempts are made to incite resentments and prejudices in the population, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lutz Weinzinger.]] With this shattering of resentments and prejudices, you want to change party-political small money and distract from your internal problems! – We are certainly not available from the ÖVP for this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We want to solve existing problems together: with the regional authorities, with the police, with the administration of the reception centre and with the municipality of St. Georgen. We want to come up with solutions that can be accepted and worn by everyone! In this context, I would like to express my respect and respect for the attitude of Mr Wilhelm Auzinger, in particular, who has not been able to take on cheap, populist statements and actions and has resisted a leading political mood. Such attempts were made: by other parties – and also by you. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Such officials, such mayors, at least deserve our respect and our recognition.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7371	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7392	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Federal Minister, in such a request that the liberals have made to you – I am not going to deal with the problems we both have – you have to say that, if you look at the answer to the question, you have to say that's a pipe-creper. The liberals make a request that implies that the development of crime around Thalham is increasing – but you have written in your response that it shows that it is falling. So: Target missing. Oh, my God, yes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] Ladies and gentlemen, apart from the content of the question, I am now referring to Mr Weinzinger's speech. Mr. Weinzinger confuses first-place receptions within the meaning of the 2005 Asylum Act with what the head of state of Tyrol has done in his internment camp-fantasies. First recording sites are quite different, however. I can only refer to the figures resulting from the question: 150 people are there – you, Federal Minister, have said this in your opinion anyway, I do not need to repeat it – so 147. [[Federal Minister Platter: 147!]] These are almost exclusively families, some individuals are involved. The average stay has also been mentioned by you. I do not see this shaky hysteria – instrumentalized by individuals – around Thalham's first recording site as an example of missing asylum policy in Austria. We find these examples elsewhere, where people are waiting for years for the outcome of their proceedings, not in first place, but in quarters, vulgo camps! Mr Federal Minister, this concerns us most: In the UBAS alone, independent Bundesasylsenate, around 7,500 cases are on average longer than three to four years. 7 500 Causen, who have been waiting for a decision for three to four years! This is about asylum seekers in the state of complete ignorance of the outcome of their proceedings. There are now prominent and reported examples in the Austrian public of people who are in perfect integration in three to four years, according to all the criteria that are required of you, also of us and many others - to learn German; to work; even to have jobs, they may not only work; to get to know Austrian customs and customs; to some extent to put off their own, that is to say, every individual is unaware. These people are in a totally wrongful state because they don't even have an answer to how their asylum process is handled, whether positive or negative – and that for years! We are from the goal of having the Straster, then Prokop, and now you have repeatedly formulated and formulated, namely to have faster and thus also rule-of-law asylum procedures, as far away as never before, even if you wanted to make the public believe that something has changed. Because in the first year of the validity of the foreign law package, the backlog at UBAS has increased! There's no talk of a decomposition! ==References== In January 2006, there were 28,300 cases, now there are well over 29 000 cases there. In this respect, Mr Federal Minister, I am quite unscrupulous; it is no advice when people come to us and ask what's going on. What about asylum seekers in Austria, who are supposed to learn German, who are not allowed to work as criminally evaded, are constantly discredited by individual politicians and individual political groups – and nothing changes?- Oh, my God! [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign.]] To that extent, Madam President, I am grateful to Mr Weinzinger for having discussed this tube-creper question today, because it gives us the opportunity to point out the real problems.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7444	Mr Fichtenbauer. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Fichtenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7465	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! The request from Lutz Weinzinger was not a pipe creator with God, for it cannot be a piper if a serious concern is seriously debated. This would, of course, mean that it is not always a matter of getting a grip on the eternal moth box – that is like a standard repertoir of a run-out actor force – that you want to make political change with serious problems. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Why do I want to make political change when I debate serious problems of a small community here? . I would not like to say to the Federal Minister, if, since the question in November, serious improvements have really occurred in respect and compliment. It is not a question of praying a problem for the pleasure of making political change for fun. We do not need to abuse the poor community of Thalham, as you would like to name it, in comparison to you, “great” money in the cash register. Today, at least ten times have been said of the fact that Austria is the safest country in Europe. I'm happy about that. But Thalham does not belong to this territory if one draws on the experience of the population as the basis of knowledge. It is often right – very right! – and very late in the Republic were spoken of by the victim aid as opposed to the criminal justice of the perpetrators. Victim aid, yes, but it seems not to be allocated to the population of Thalham. All of this is an example of an entire “prophesy package” in this sector. I give Mrs Stoisits more than right: The long duration of the procedures is an absolute scandal! Of course, this long-term duration of the process of asylum is part of the problem. And it is a relapse scandal that 7,000 open procedures lie at the Bundesasylsenat for several years, without organisational improvement measures taking place. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the part of my group: Rightful, genuine asylum seekers who benefit from the asylum grounds are entitled to asylum! However, asylum fraudsters should not be able to use our legal system and not contribute to the insecurity in the country. – That is the whole thing to say on this point. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The answer to the question offers, with permission, much statistical material, yet I cannot resist the impression that it bears the tender charm of the authority's cynicism. I cannot say if, in the November 2006 statistics, 24 cases show that this is an improvement in crime or even average. The Thalgauer, who represent a tourist community in the area of St. Johann – of course, Thalham – the Thalhamers have the right to record as little crime as possible. [[Calls:Thalham]] It's not about a sanatorium that would have provided jobs for 150 people, because of the specific local situation, the tents break off and leave. I do not argue that the mayor there is a hero, I do not argue that the community, federal government and country are trying to improve the seemingly unbearable system, but I contest the right to betroth these people here today and to view them as a political little money.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7523	Next – and provisionally – speakers: Mr Dolinschek. 5 minutes of legal speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7544	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The situation in the municipality of St. Georgen am Attersee, exactly in Thalham, is not known to me personally, but one thing I would like to say: [[Call the SPÖ:Not at the Attersee, in the Attergau!]] A question to the Minister of the Interior is probably not to be asked by any Members if he is concerned about the population in this region. I cannot really judge whether the crime rate in the affected community, particularly in the vicinity of a refugee camp, has increased or fallen by certain measures. However, it is known that in the vicinity of asylum homes, first reception centres and refugee camps, thefts are increasingly being made more thieving, saying that in Thalham, precisely by installing this first reception centre, the rate of crime has been increased. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Moser]] Especially sad in this context – and there must be alarm bells in everyone’s minds – that there is great concern in the population that, once it’s dark, women there don’t dare to go on the street anymore, that they’re afraid – and that now they’re also superior to companies, because they’re breaking in so many times, there are so many thefts to move the company’s location! There we should, indeed, consider what measures are to be taken in this context. Of course, prevention is always better than rehabilitation – it is also cheaper – and therefore measures should be put in place in such a way that asylum seekers who actually need our help are, of course, treated as soon as possible, but others who have not been granted asylum status, for example, because they have not been politically persecuted, are no longer allowed to remain in our country. There must also be measures to ensure that these people do not get into our country at all, because they are driving out the real asylum seekers here. There is no need for action! Austria – I still believe this – is a safe country, but it should continue to do so. Austria should continue to be an attractive country, but not an attractive country of asylum. There is no doubt that the appropriate measures need to be put in place. Mr Federal Minister, we should work together in this direction in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7595	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. [[16:12:49]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-22-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7618	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 162/A to 173/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Question No 544/J to 555/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Thursday, 29 October. March 2007, 9 a.m., is envisaged, will be convened in writing. I also announce that the Committee on Immunities in the Local III, the Local IV Environment Committee and the Local V Equal Treatment Committee, each five minutes after the end of this meeting, will hold their meetings. In addition, as regards the procurement of fighter aircraft, the Committee of Inquiry shall continue its interrupted meeting at local VI 5 minutes after the end of this meeting. The sitting is closed.
