ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e1774	The 18th. The meeting of the National Council is open. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Mulder, Mag. Gaßner and Mandak. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e1805	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following messages: The Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour Dr. Martin Bartenstein is represented by the State Secretary at the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Labour Christine Marek, Federal Minister for Social Affairs and Consumer Protection Dr. Erwin Buchinger, the Federal Minister for Justice, Dr. Maria Berger. [[09:01:14]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e1853	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e2088	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 and 2 of the agenda be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e2113	The President-in-Office of the Council agreed on the design and duration of the debate. Accordingly, a day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 131 minutes, Green as well as FPÖ 108 minutes, BZÖ 63 minutes. The following speech time agreement was also reached for the debate from 9.05 a.m. to 1 p.m., transmitted by the ORF: First of all, a word message per group with 13 minutes each, then a word by the Federal Chancellor with 10 minutes, then a word by the Vice Chancellor with 10 minutes. After that, one speech per group of 6 minutes each, one word per group each with 6 minutes. Then a member of the government with 5 minutes and a member of the government with 5 minutes. In addition, one speech per group of 5 minutes each, then one word per group of 5 minutes each. Then a member of the government with 5 minutes, then another member of the government with 5 minutes. Finally, one speech per group of 4 minutes each. The President-in-Office or the President-in-Office will pay particular attention to strict compliance with the speaking time of each Member. Should it appear after the fifth round of the Members that the remainder is not enough, the speaking time of the remaining seven speakers, i.e. the two members of the government and the five Members of Parliament, will be shortened aliquot. There is also agreement that actual adjustments will be called after the television period. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[09:03:31]] 1. Point First reading of the Government template concerning the Federal Finance Act 2007, including investments (39 d.b.) 2. Point First reading of the Government template concerning the Federal Finance Act 2008 and investments (40 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e2170	We now come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda. The speaking times are known. I would also draw attention to the fact that the President-in-Office has agreed that the President-in-Office is already running out a few seconds before the end of the speaking time, so that a final sentence can also be found that cannot be tolerated outside the scheduled speaking time. First of all, Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. 13 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e2197	Madam President. High house! Because of the somewhat concentrated and serious views of the opposition's clubs, I notice: You're having a hard time finding something critical in it this time. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] I also thought in the preparation: How would it be if you were still in opposition? What would you say? And it wasn't easy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. That can only be a joke!]] What immediately caught my eye, these are the socio-democratic traces in there. [[Abg. Brosz: The Eurofighter!]] But now you should write, because I'm convinced you will have real problems, or you don't want to see it like that! [[Abg. Strache: Where do you find them?]] But I would like to help you a little bit now, so that you will have it easier if you speak. We can also shorten the debate, bring it more compressed, and the spectator has more of it. [[Abg. Brosz: How much is for the Eurofighters...? We'd love to know!]] That's right, with the Eurofighters, you're talking to a value drop. We are still in the Committee of Inquiry to do everything we can to save the taxpayer. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] We don't want to forget that! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Pilz.]] The laughing colleagues from the ÖVP also want to be involved. You will also be happy to travel in the interest of taxpayers! We don't want to deceive them! Now that we are in coalition and are approaching each other, they may also become more moving in this regard. But now to the points – just once the big design: The big design was that we promised before we entered this government, there must be exchange points. And the course points are... [[Abg. Oillinger: tuition fees!]] – We will work on this too. The last word has not yet been spoken. But the great design is of course very clearly recognizable in various areas. For example, if you have read zealous newspaper in the last days, the entire infrastructure area: The area of road, rail – you can continue cycling, I will also do it, but there are also citizens who not only ride by bike, and they also want to have a road and also more rail, and we should also take these into account, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! [[Abg. Dr. Moser: For God's sake!]] There is now a lot of money being taken over the whole legislative period to operate in this area of infrastructure. This, by the way, is a basic need in the population, and we have come to this. By chance, this is even a place we manage and where we set a special focus. This is very clear when you read the budget carefully, in the speech of the Minister for Finance: The infrastructure sector is one of the priorities – and it really needs to be invested! Something, however, was not so important in the period from 2000 to 2006. . This small note is allowed to me, because the Minister of Finance made a few comments yesterday, and I will also allow myself to do so. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl.]] The distinction between us must continue to be kept! They should not perhaps get too close to us, otherwise they believe that there are only more social democrats in the government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why the distinction should be preserved, and therefore it is quite natural for the Minister of Finance to try to get such ideological elements into his speech here too – many were not, but the few I have painted. I would like to address this – this is also a service for the opposition so that it can also say something about it. What is important is something that has also been neglected and is now a little more taken into account: the research area. Yes, research and science – a satisfactoryly looking minister in this area, which has only a small part – the Ministry of Infrastructure has the larger part here too. But if you work together, you can achieve a lot, and that is really to be tried in this area. So research is something that also carries our track. The increase of the R&D ratio to 3 percent of GDP by 2010 is an ambitious goal of this federal government – and this is ultimately to be achieved. Another point where the traces are clearly recognizable is the field of education. Education, school... – Yes, yes! [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Yes!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] That's where I'd be writing, like in school, just write it down! [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dr. Pilz.]] It is a very important area that has found a focus here. It's never an educational offensive too late when I look at my colleague Pilz! It's never too late, there's also adult education! [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dr. Pilz.]] We can still open up a course, but that is an area that is also very important and where there is also more budgetary money for this area. By the way, this is also a place for which the Social Democrats are responsible and where they want to get involved very massively. That too, I say now, ambitious goal of reducing the maximum number of students to 25 is a goal that will be achieved! You will see that will not go from today to tomorrow – we want to be realistic! – but this objective is to be achieved and is a very essential point. Active labour market policy: We have not even been right at the negotiating table, there has already been a decision on active labour market policy. The ÖVP has seen us and said: Jessas, we think of something, we have to do something immediately for active labour market policy! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] That's clear. Anyone who sees us at the negotiating table suddenly comes in the right direction. In this case, it was the active labour market policy, where money was immediately taken into control. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Quite honest: Look It is the development of the unemployment and employment figures from 2000 to 2006! We've often been wearing spicy hats where we said: There's too little going on! Why isn't there being done? Now suddenly with us in the coalition happens more, more is made, not always with a happy face from your side, but yet with it – and that is the decisive! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP]] Together side by side! [[Abg. Strache: Is there the Karl-Heinz Grasser?]] This is another essential point: social security. In any case – and I would like to focus on the text of Mr Finanzminister’s speech – the Minister has a few – how should I say? – imprecise formulations inside. I'd like to help him a little bit. On page 15 he speaks of a pension reform – that was, of course, the pension reduction reform – since we have a bit of a semantic dispute with each other, which we no longer need to carry out, that is already over, because there will be corrections here in the future: [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] Whether this is the appreciation of child rearing times, whether this is the extension of the “hackler regulation”, there is already some poison tooth drawn! – You look very painful, dear colleague of the ÖVP, you give me the right, there were poison teeth in there! That is why there should be this correction. It is important for the opposition speakers that they see that we have something to do with it, we want to intervene, we want to improve it too. That was still in the time when we stood side by side and demanded it. Now you're demanding it. We realize it, and if we realize it, you don't need to demand it any more! That's so simple. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So I would say that you could concentrate on finding out what we have achieved as your works council in the government in this area, and that is what will happen. [[Abg. Brosz: There must have been free beer with you today!]] I'd like to say something about the pension. We are hardly sitting at the negotiating table, as we have not even been right at the negotiating table: Again: the ÖVP sees us, and already there has been an increase and adjustment of pensions. [[Calls to the Greens.]] For 80 percent of the ASVG-pensionists, the figure was 1.9 percent. Don't be so excited! You still have time to go to the pension. Maybe it'll be even better. Stay cool! – In any case: We hardly sit at the negotiating table, it looks better for the pensioners. 1.60 per cent with these staggerings is truly 1.9 per cent for 80 per cent of the ASVG-pensionists – by the way, a very large volume! –, plus: No longer a pensioner is in the poverty zone! With the compensation allowances it will be at €726... – Dear colleague Oillinger, it can be more and more! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] That's where we meet. It can always be, and we are also here borne by impatience and immodestness. It must be brought out more and more in the field of social affairs. To the area of the feasible: We are not alone in this government, as you have noticed! Not always have we enforced ourselves – I say that quite openly and honestly, some of them are proud of this too! – but together we then went through this increase. I think this is very, very positive and really brings something to the pensioners. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Tax increases!]] By the way, it was always a criticism with us, the bad treatment of pensioners in the time, colleague Westenthaler, when you were in the government and you, BZÖ, were responsible for not giving the pensioners what is due to them. This, of course, also meant that the purchasing power was weakened. This is one of the many points that we have discussed and where we have acted together and have said: Yeah, that's not good either! Not only from the stagnation of wages, but also from the point of view of the fact that pensioners are no longer given to stimulate the growth of employment. By the way, we have even expanded that. I remember today – I still have the pictures in front of me! – when it came to assessing the tax reform – something we are planning. The Minister of Finance has said that in 2010 there will be this tax reform then! I'll tell you right now: Of course, this can only be a tax reform, which will strongly boost growth, which will give impetus to employment, but which must also be socially just – that is crucial! At the time, we had this discussion in the previous tax reforms or a tax reform – the mild look of the clubman tells me that he doesn't give me so wrong content that here really was a tax reform that was not socially fair of course! The recent debate also confirms the need for a socially just tax reform. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Why not 2010?]] And one thing can't be, Mr. Finanzminister – that will be an important point for you too –: Of course, the super-rich must also contribute to the financing of the social state in the future! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Perhaps a small score, because you spoke yesterday of “debt backpack” and the reorganisation of the budget from 2000 to 2006: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Red “Schuldenrucksack”!]] Do not forget, Mr Klubobmann Schüssel, before 2000 we were together in a government, and everything that was taken up in debt at that time always took place with your consent. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Red Chancellor! Red Minister of Finance!]] You always hide it! They always say there was a red finance minister, and the rest didn't. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: That's what you've been doing together!]] We were together, we should carry this backpack together – once you, once I, don't care, we can do it together. When we're tired, we go to a coffee together, and then we carry the backpack on. But never forget: That was common! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Much was common, that was particularly common. And everything that happened from 2000 to 2006 – including the smart breakdowns so that the debt is not seen there – has to be borne by the colleague Westenthaler and the BZÖ-Truppe. This can then be said if she tries to make an opposition speech here, which she will not succeed, because you are responsible for everything that was from 2000 to 2007 – except for the colleague Westenthaler when he was short on vacation in the private sector. [[Abg. Scheibner: A better opposition speech like you we don't bring together!]] The BZÖ itself was responsible for this, please. We don't want to forget that. If I look at that, I mean, it's up to my colleague Molterer's little slugs, where he has brought in a little ideology – but that's what he has left, he wanted to express a little ÖVP identity as well – a good double budget. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] We can really agree with a calm conscience here, because it bears clear social democratic traces.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e2545	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Schüssel. Also 13 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e2568	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! They have just experienced a human example of “flexicurity”, for flexibility and stability. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] I will be happy to pick up the ball and I would like to congratulate once again on the wonderful 2006 budget statement, which has brought 1.1 percent instead of 1.5 percent deficit and a record growth of 3.2 percent. That's not a matter of course! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Of course, there is already very interesting now, Josef Cap, what the main speakers of the opposition – I am saving you the designations of names – have said at the time. I quote literally: This budget is built on sand, totally unresponsible. Do you seriously want to decide a budget that is not based on real forecasts? The Minister of Finance has cheated because the budget has been prepared for the election and the consequence will be a very massive wave of stress the day after the election. – So the predictions, dear Klubobmann Josef Cap! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] You see, we've budgeted well. Karl-Heinz Grasser has put down a super-result, a growth record that has not been achieved since 2001. You can now properly continue to work on this. Well, ladies and gentlemen: The economic situation has, of course, helped us – that is quite clear. And, of course, this economic situation and the labour market situation are not entirely approximate. Once there is the world economy – we can do little for it – but we can participate with good export success. And we should never forget that EU enlargement by the countries of Central, Eastern and South-East Europe has a very important share in our success. Therefore: To benefit from this is a great success of the Austrian economy. You can only congratulate me warmly. However, there has also been some domestic success: We have made growth packages, economic recovery programmes and, above all, tax reform in 2005 – and of course, this has worked first-class. Because, for example, you mentioned the labour market situation: We have not increased there at all, but we are continuing one to one the 200 million € special programme, which has also been in place in the last two years, which has proved itself perfectly and has taken place in the great clause in Innsbruck in autumn. Since then, we have seen 13 times a partly significant improvement in the employment situation every month. On this one can be built thanks to God, of course. Congratulations, continue so, dear Government! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And then please the tax reform – I like to pick up this ball –: The tax reform was first-class. And that is what some critics have said now, who say why there is not a budget surplus in this situation, including repayments and interest. The answer is very simple: Without this tax reform, we would already have a budget surplus of 1 to 1.3 percent in this year. In other words, we have been conscious since 2005... – Professor [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: The deficit is 4 billion, not 3!]] Van der Bellen, no, even the entire state! We would certainly have... – Austria is already an overall state! [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: General State!]] This can be pointed out, Professor! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Overall, we have had a budget surplus since 2005. However, we have rightly decided for political reasons that we will return part of the taxpayers to the taxpayers through the largest tax reduction ever. And she works! They have criticized corporate tax and economic reformers. That's interesting: We have reduced corporate tax rates from 34 percent to 25 percent – almost a quarter – but revenue has increased by € 2 billion compared to the 2005 budget estimate. This means that the reduction has brought out more honesty and more income also through the economic strength of our businesses. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another point, because some of the speakers of SPÖ, even the Greens, repeatedly raise the tax burden on property, saying: Why don't we introduce the asset tax again? At the hour there are only more than five OECD countries – of 30 – who have a wealth tax. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: But almost everyone knows an inheritance tax!]] All the others have abolished them. The Finns, the Icelandics have now abolished them, and the Swedish government has now announced to abolish the asset tax. That is why, I believe, we are perfectly on this path, it is ownership-promoting and tax-paying. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Great praise, Minister of Finance, for the impulses that have also been set. It is truly intelligently saved and invested in future areas. I give the SPÖ-Klubobmann the right: of course more for research – 10 percent. Our common goal was always to reach the 3 percent limit, and we will do so. For the education there is almost €200 million more in this double budget, for the universities €200 million more. Climate protection is a special concern: It is spent at €500 million in this period. Infrastructure – and not only since now, even in the past legislative period... [[Abg. Sburny: Where is he, the fund?]] – Extra-budgetary, of course, because this is a long-term investment that cannot be evaded in one year or in a legislative period alone. [[Abg. Sburny: Where? Where do we find that?]] And that is why it makes sense for the next few years to spend €11 billion on rail and road, just as it makes sense to make real use of every ‘funding euro’ from the European Union and to make almost €400 million per year for rural areas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For safety: 200 more police officers, that is, 2,000 more officers on the street than in 1999. For social cohesion: over 400 million more, and that makes absolutely sense. By the way: The security of value, Josef Cap, has not now been introduced. By the way, it is an element, decided by us, in this pension security reform already quoted by you, which gives pensioners the full value adjustment. We stand to do so, and I believe that we are very well placed with these impulses and with the priorities in the budget. Allow another word on the debts of recent years: For example, it is quite interesting to see that we have always made primary surpluses since 1996 – that is interestingly the year when I became Vice-Chancellors – always! [[Abg. Dr. Bösch: Such a coincidence!]] Not until 1996, and as of 1996, we have always made primary surpluses! And we will also be making 3 billion euros in the next two years – i.e., 3 billion euros away from interest and repayments – once even 3.5 billion euros. So, the direction is right, and we can certainly congratulate the Minister for Finance and the Head of Government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the question of assets, which are ultimately to be dealt with in the context of this budgetary discussion, a word on the privatisation strategy, which some still criticise for either ideological reasons or are not properly understood. I would also like to point out that, on the current occasion, this decision by Voest and Böhler together seems to be a very useful one. Of course, some questions will still have to be answered, what this is like with the interaction, what the long-term strategy looks like here – not a question, but in principle it makes sense! Who still has the history of the once nationalized industry in mind, who has experienced this as a contemporary witness – and there are some here! – he knows that this success story was only made possible by the liberation from political constraints, by the release into the freedom of these companies and by a successful privatisation strategy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have once again figured out the following – by the way, it is very well listed in the documents, in the work of the budget –: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pilz]] It says that in 1999 the total value of ÖIAG's investments was € 7.6 billion, the debt level almost equal to € 6.5 billion. At this time, since 2000, we have depreciated all debts, the ÖIAG is debt-free, and the residual value of the shares is higher than seven years ago. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] He's well over €8 billion, ladies and gentlemen. Based on this success story, I am not personally afraid of the fate of the ÖIAG companies, for the fate of Böhler and Voest. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: How do you feel as a locust?]] I also trust completely Wolfgang Eder and Claus Raidl and the Supervisory Boards, who will find a very good solution to the needs of the workforce, shareholders and the general state. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion: Willi Molterer, Vice Chancellor and Minister of Finance, has presented a double budget together with the entire Federal Government, a double budget, which contains impulses and nevertheless very carefully and carefully deals with taxpayers' money, where there are also accents that are absolutely supportive from our point of view. And the old proverb says: Double holds better. This is absolutely true of this budget. – Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e2759	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Van der Bellen. 13 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e2780	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! So yesterday, Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance Molterer gave his first budget speech. I'd almost say a little dry compared to his predecessor, but I like it better. That's taste. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Better than Karl-Heinz Grasser's bombastic got, every two minutes some poet's quote, whether it's right or not. Just, Josef Cap, watch out a little! [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] What you brought here today in the context of the budget debate, budget discussion, almost reminded me of our friend Karl-Heinz Grasser. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In terms of content, the methods are, of course, similar – the methods of Grasser, Molterer and Cap in this case, namely the fog yards! Why can a finance minister, why can't a government representative like Josef Cap simply say what's going on on on the budget – clear and simple –: That's right, we're not ready yet, we're trying instead of always throwing those mists? That starts with the Eurofighter. If you compare the 2006 and 2007 budgets, it is obvious where the biggest pieces are in the changes in the budgets: around €500 million in the Eurofighters. – There is no word about this in the budget speech. We all know that, in the budget speech by Minister Molterer, there is no word for this. Is this waste of money embarrassing to you by the ÖVP now? Is it embarrassing for you to know what happened in the committee of inquiry with which dilettantism has been concluded here? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Is it embarrassing for you that all the economic rules and principles between buyers and sellers have been violated here? Is it embarrassing for you that Mr Rumpold has received a million contract and cannot prove what he has spent the money for? What was that, 10,000, 15 000 € for a press conference? [[Call the Greens: 96,000!]] 26,000? What? [[New calls to the Greens: 96,000!]] 100,000! A press conference of the green club costs about €50, I would say if you go to coffee, €200, €300, but neither 1 000 nor 5 000, nor 50,000, let alone more. That seems embarrassing to you. But in any case, compared to this 500 million € increase in the defense budget for the Eurofighters, the increases that exist at the schools and universities are dwarfs, pronounced dwarfs. I would like to mention the schools and universities at this point in particular, because here the growth conditions for the coming years and decades are laid. There, decisions will be taken in five, in ten, in twenty years, and what is missing here will later become the social budget for the unemployed, for social assistance and so on. Yes, it's right, in the school budget there are increases in compulsory schools: 2007 plus 50 million, as far as we can understand, in 2008 plus 145 million. That's true. Print media: It was reported that it was plus 800 million. Do not believe the one who has launched this to you again! That was a special class newspaper. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] These 50 or 145 million, a crack compared to the Eurofighters, will contribute to this – contribute! – to reduce the number of students. If that is enough, that will prove to be true. And we are talking here for the time being only about compulsory schools, Mr Cap: In the area of the AHS upper level, not only is there currently a single job in the establishment plan additional budgeted, but only in the compulsory schools. Only for comparison so that you can properly estimate what 50 million additional 2007 are: In the compulsory school teacher field of the state teachers, over €3 billion are currently budgeted in the Federal Budget, which is €3 000 million. And in comparison, the budget will be increased by 50 million, Mr Cap! The major educational reform, the great educational offensive that the Greens demanded and the SPÖ before the election day on 1st. I promised on October, where is it? You find them in the numbers here? - We don't! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the context of the reduction of the schooling maximums, something can happen, yes, very well, but for the individual promotion of children, for the elimination of the miserable PISA results in the so-called risk students as well as for the highly gifted ones, this will not be enough. Childcare: The word “child care” has not at all taken financial minister Molterer into the mouth. For improved early schooling, schooling, more intensive language training for nationals and foreigners, these funds will not be sufficient, Mr Cap. The great educational offensive is already in the approach. It's the same every year at the universities. Kurt Grünewald knows this the way I do: The budget data are a nightmare, colleague Cap and Minister of Finance Molterer. I have reviewed a handful of sources in this context: Each source provides a different number about the extension or non-extension of the university budget. The 127 million, mentioned yesterday by Minister of Finance Molterer, I have found no source at all. But as much as I think I can say: that 2007 will be an extension, yes, round about, I guess, 7 percent plus. This is more than the inflation rate, quite a good measure. 2008 is already the end of it. In 2008, the increase in inflation rates is moving. Mr Klubobmann Schüssel, the EU has set itself the goal of attracting universities compared to the US. The US spends more than 2 percent of GDP on universities – Austria is less than one percent of gross domestic product. We are currently limping at around €3 billion behind this goal, tendency falling – tendency falling and not rising. Of course, it would be pointless to demand that from one year to another the universities get 3 billion more, that's clear, but you have to start with this pick-up process! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Over the course of ten years you can achieve this goal. Don't forget that in the last four years, 2003 to 2006, the number of students has increased on average by 6 000 each year, by around 25,000 students within these four years! And that's what you mean, that's appropriate what you're doing at the universities?- Oh, my God! Finally, so that you can see how far away we are in Austria from the so-called world class universities: Harvard alone – this is a university, though one of the most famous – has a financial assets of $30 billion and an annual budget of $3 billion. [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger: And how high are the tuition fees?]] In other words: Harvard alone has a university budget that is as high as all Austrian universities combined. [[Abg. May. Hakl: And how much does the state pay?]] Now, do you see how big the pick-up process we've got in front of us? Take note of this at last! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What I have to say is that the universities lie in the down bed compared to art and culture. Art and culture are not worth anything at all. In the field of art and culture, expenditure is falling real. Explain You can do this once to the cultural creators in Austria! Explain You will stress that to the wider public, where otherwise you will not tire out in Sunday's speeches, which Austria is not for a cultural nation. – Yes, may be, but not if you deal with the cultural creators in such a poor way! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Of course, in a budget with 70 billion expenditure, not everything can be bad; I do not want to give the impression. There are, of course, a number of measures that we support, for example yesterday, the changes, I believe, which have been unanimously adopted in the area of child benefits, the flexibility of child benefits, which we believe is not far enough, but is at least an important step in the right direction. For the first time since I remember, a finance minister in his budget speech mentions the important role of environmental technologies, new energy technologies as a job engine for the labour market. Yes, of course, we welcome that. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens and the ÖVP.]] But at the level of financing and action, Mr Klubobmann Schüssel, there is once again a dense fog. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: 500 million!]] – Tag 500 million, I hear. Yes, a climate and energy fund of 500 million is mentioned in the budget speech. [[Congratulations and bravado with representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grill: That's not bad, is it?]] What is not in the budget speech, which is not contained in the budget accompanying law, which is currently nowhere, is: When does he come, how does he who decides on the funds, how is the fund financed, et cetera, et cetera? And, of course, we're waiting for what's still to come. At the moment, it's a culprit and nothing else. [[Abg. Wheelers: Waiting and drinking green tea!]] Nice when this fund comes to € 500 million, mainly for the promotion of climate protection. But at the moment this is an empty word, unfortunately, Mr Cap. I doubt that the SPÖ was very much behind installing this climate fund, because the SPÖ on environmental and climate protection issues has so far been absolutely deaf on both ears. Absolutely deaf! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Maybe a word about indebtedness. Is this deficit appropriate in this economic situation: € 4 billion in 2007? – No, definitely no! What else do we need? What should be the level of economic growth, ladies and gentlemen of the EIA? Even higher than the 3 percent forecast for 2007? This is not my mantra, that is the mantra of the ÖVP, I suppose, even the SPÖ that we have been hearing for years that a budget balance is to be made over the economic cycle. Now everybody nods with the head. In your opinion, how long should such an economic cycle normally last? – Three years? Five years? 20 years? 60 years? I don't ask for a reason. Do you know when in the Federal Budget the last time a surplus has been achieved, regardless of the economic situation or the economic cycle? When? – No, that was not in the Federal budget, Mr. Westenthaler! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 2001!]] The last surplus in the Bundesbudget was 1953 and 1954. These were the only surpluses in the federal budget. 2001 was no surplus in the Bundesbudget! [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: But stately!]] In 2001, the deficit in the federal government was compensated for by the surplus in countries and municipalities. We are doing federal policy here, you are always calling on the surpluses of countries and communities. That's what I'm looking at as a fog throw. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e3028	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Strache. Speech time: 13 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e3049	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! It was surprising for me today to listen to the speech of the clubman of social democracy. I happened to be like in Upper Austria during the “Dalking ” practice there. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: What is this custom?]] Only I've had the impression that you're rolling yourself today with what you've been doing for the best. You have played yourself to take your own grain with what you have offered here, because what comes out in this double budget clearly shows that the SPÖ today is a sub-rent of the ÖVP in the Federal Chancellor's Office. That's the reality! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We experienced in October 2006 that the black-orange German government was selected by the Austrian population with a sounding ear fig, hoping that a new federal government will make a little better. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Do it too!]] And then today we experience with the double budget that the socially ice-cold bowl-grasser course will continue to one. Where is your social responsibility visible in the budget? So I can't see it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] I can't see it! That's what you can look for with the magnifying glass, your comments in the double budget, with the magnifying glass to look for. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] I understand that you are becoming nervous because, of course, social-democratic voters must be rightly disappointed and appalled in view of these patterns of conduct, they have fallen into the trap of all the elections that were made before the election. I understand. With the Eurofighter, the delivery has only been delayed by making it possible to train our pilots in the Federal Republic of Germany, so that the Eurofighters can only be delivered later, so that they can be delayed a little bit. But then the Minister of Defense with the champagne bottle will celebrate the opening when the Eurofighter has come and is put into operation in Austria. In these areas She fails everywhere, and the voters will remember that. If you're talking about debt policy: Every Austrian born today has 20 000 euros to carry in his backpack. This backpack does not carry you, Minister of Finance, the Austrians, thanks to a SPÖ/ÖVP debt policy over the last decades! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Don't pretend from the ÖVP as if you weren't there! Of course you were there! As Mr Cap rightly pointed out, the joint responsibility of SPÖ and ÖVP is that the Austrians, namely every Austrian, have to carry a debt backpack of €20 000, which needs to be dismantled. That's exactly your responsibility you can't figure out: 20 000 € Debt for every Austrian! In addition, there have been additional burdens in recent decades. We know – and we have always criticized this – that an irresponsible immigration policy has taken place in Austria, which means that many Austrians must feel that in some areas they have become foreigners in their own home country. I heard yesterday from Minister of Finance Molterer the key word: Integration before immigration. So I can only face you there and say: Let us finally support Austrian families instead of immigration! That would be the right approach. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This would be the right approach to strengthen Austrian families, perhaps to strengthen our Austrian families with a family tax division, perhaps even to be able to afford a second, third and fourth child again and thus to give our Austrian society a future – instead of just going here and taking tax measures and then investing our tax money in the area of immigration, as it is in part the case today. I recognise with this budget – a budget that actually continues to manage what we have been used to in recent decades – a standstill that has already become known to the Austrians under the former great coalition. It is a budget of missed opportunities where one has missed course corrections, where also courage and creativity are missing in many areas. If the Minister of Finance spoke of a big throw, I would rather speak of a belly stain. It's more of a belly, this double budget. That's the more accurate expression. This budget means nothing more than a continuation of the restriction course of a black-orange predecessor government, a continuation of the previous course, with the Austrians continuing on 1 January. In fact, with their election decision on October, they have expressed their desire to end this course. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I already suggested: If we talk about social democracy in this budget, we really need to look at it with the magnifying eye. I have not noticed them except that there are very positive points in small areas such as education. Like Klubobmann Van der Bellen rightly noted: It can't be all bad what's in the budget – no question, of course there's also some reasonable measure. But if you were to set the priorities properly, you would have to set a different budget. And that's exactly what it's all about: The wrong priorities have been set again. There has also been a continuation of fetishism of the zero deficit. The Federal Chancellor laughs behind my back. I think that's what I'm laughing at. I really find it laughing that a Minister of Finance Grasser, who was a zero-deficit fetishist, is being replaced by you today, Federal Chancellor, because you continue exactly that. That's what I think I'm laughing at, I'm right about you. It's not understandable. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we look at the two most important factors that influence GDP, namely the public sector and private consumption, which will continue to be subject to rigorous savings measures, and if we look at the fact that the Wifo has just recently shown that the real wages of the year 2006 will, together with all the negative effects on consumption, be lower than those of 1997, then perhaps the EIA and Social Democracy will be able to deal with today with Achselzucken. You're talking about it, just take it that way, because I can't see any countermeasures. I recognize, in turn, what we have had to experience in recent years, a very positive industrial policy, not a question. You're here for big capital, no question. Global insanity is continuing – I know that – but the middle class is being bled out! The smaller and medium-sized traders are bleeding out in this Republic today! In this area we have record insolvency in Austria. Don't forget that, don't just push it away like that. There, decisive discharge offensives must be made. Only then, if small and medium-sized enterprises are well, do we have more jobs in the country again and finally there is an upturn in the country. And if we have a strong middle class, this is also a security investment for our future. They're sinking out the middle class in Austria! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They decide on additional taxes, fix taxes in the field of mineral oil tax, where car drivers already have to pay €3.7 billion per year in mineral oil tax – € 3.7 billion in mineral oil tax per year! The drivers pay the state today if you calculate all taxes in Austria, 11.3 billion € annually in taxes! And you're going here and you're about to raise the mineral oil tax by 3 cents in the fuel and 5 cents in diesel, and continue to make the driver the milk cow of the nation by fixing further loads there. We know that from Vienna, so it works similarly. In Vienna, Mayor Häupl has just recently re-enacted the park pickerl and also public transport. We know that. In scrapping you are a and world class, not a question; there you are world class! 16.6 percent increase in diesel – 16.6 percent! – 7,2 percent of petrol, that's horning numbers when you're looking at it. You should not give the best of a scrap and raubritter budget, but really take a more innovative approach to the matter and do not shrink back to the poor Austrians, who can't do anything for him to get into the world today with 20 000 euros of debt that you have to answer. They should not only dump this on their backs, but they should be a little more innovative about the matter, and they should finally take action in these areas of relief, so that the economy is revitalized. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Donabauer: That's not where mathematics is with you!]] Well, mathematics – we can then go through it together. You probably have problems in the field of mathematics! I can already imagine that you have problems. Mr. Finanzminister Molterer needed quite a few words in his speech yesterday: Future, chance, freedom, right balance; I don't know how often I heard those words yesterday, that was incredible! Then I also heard, as the Minister of Finance said, that the enlargement of the EU was a task for him. So I wonder, Who gave you the order? Who gave you the order? - Not the Austrians! You have said that this is a task for you to continue the process of enlargement. – So I didn’t know that this was an order that the Austrians gave you! [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: Parliament!]] Parliament? – Of course, Parliament is unfortunately majority in favour of Turkey’s accession to the European Union, but we will nevertheless strongly oppose it. There we will be the reliable partner of the Austrians, no question. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You made it clear yesterday that the Austrians are now being scrapped out, but in 2010 you will return to them what you have drawn from the left pocket with a tax reform. – So the old-fashioned game: First, you take out a euro from the left pocket, and at the end you might get 20 cents back. That's the old game. Only: How will this work until 2010, in time before the National Council election, of course? – It will not work, say business researchers who have already revealed this announcement as an empty promise, because by 2012 at the latest, the creative budget design of Grasser’s cut, with which you have ultimately also beautifuld your figures by disseminating debt at billions, will end with EU regulations, and then it will be over with these beautiful colours. Then there will be a situation in the areas of the ÖBB, which will give ASFINAG a situation where up to €30 billion of liabilities to the Maastricht-related budget will have to be reintroduced. And if by the year 2010 will be most likely and fairly safe to reduce the economy, I wonder how this tax relief will then be financed. You have quite a noble idea yourself, you have to say, in the government program, that you are planning a 3.5-billion-€ tax package – at least this is a bit honest – because it is necessary. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] I come to the conclusion: I can only tell you that, as the reliable Austrian force in Parliament, we are going to ensure that we do not run fine dyeing, but instead bring pure wine to the Austrians. This is the continuation of an old great coalition, which means a standstill for the country.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e3221	Next is Mr. Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. Also 13 minutes of time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e3242	Federal Chancellor! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of Finance – lovingly called Father Willi in his own series and also in the media – delivered his first budget sermon here yesterday. I compare them more with a Sermon on the Mount of Debt, which he gave here. Those were all very beautiful words, anointing words. Only what belongs to an ordinary sermon, either before or after, “Pater Willi”, is confession, and I have missed it: confession that, despite the highest economic situation and the best economic situation, you give the Austrians a wave of burden, tax increases, where it goes only, and make new debts and that many things are already not true in the preaching work. [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: What sins do you have?]] When he says: Yeah, you shouldn't spend more money than you have, I'll tell you. We continue to write debts, although we currently have the best economic situation and best income in Austria, and yet taxes will be increased. – Although at the end of next week the Easter fasting time for the Christians ends, the Austrians must continue to fast because they are further burdened by this government. Of course, the SPÖ does not agree, I understand, it is sad about this budget, it is sad that it has also caused this debt mountain. Mr Cap, you said we have nothing to criticize. – Of course we do! In response to this budget, her colleague, Mr Heinisch-Hosek, said that she was very disappointed by the Minister of Finance's ignorance of the achievements, skills and qualifications of women can be found in this budget. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Of the speech! You can't read!]] - That's right! Women are not relieved either, income shears continue to disperse, there are no tax reliefs for the return of women, for businesses that make this possible – and we demand that! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: That's not true!]] Because these income scarves are getting more and more apart, we want to work for women. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Cap, I know that you are not quite satisfied either, that has been seen today: Criticism of the coalition partner; the coalition partner criticizes right back. I asked myself: What kind of coalition is this? – And the coalition obviously has a clear motto: Separate marching, cashing together! That is the motto of this government in this budget. I am only glad, Mr Cap, that the two – Finance Ministers and Federal Chancellors – do this budget and, for example, do not sit at the Billa cash register, because then the Austrians would have even worse: Then there is the yogurt at the double price, for which is only half inside. That's the problem. And the same is done with the budget: A load wave is released and on the other hand, the impression is that more is being spent. No more spending! Due to wise – through truly clever – retranslations in the individual resorts, one gives the impression that perhaps there and there is one billion more inside. Now this Easter time is coming to us, and at the end of next week we are celebrating the resurrection. And there you are disappointed because you and your boss cannot celebrate the resurrection because he is still lying, your boss, he is still lying! He has fallen by when it comes, for example, to the study fees, to the Eurofighters, to the skilled workers – where he has said: no foreign skilled workers! – in the case of tax increases which he carries out, in the distribution of resources, in the general school, in education. He fell down everywhere! Now the budget is coming, and this is even going to get into numbers. This must be broken on the tongue: €70 billion in additional expenditure, of which 47 billion go to the black resorts, but only 23 billion to the red resorts. Mr Cap! This is capitulation, what you've done here! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You have got a lot of votes, but only a third of the extra expenditure! That's really not much. That's why he's also lying down, your party leader, and doesn't get up, not even to Easter. And that's the real problem you have. You know very slowly why television technology invented the 16:9 widescreen format: because your boss can only be displayed in the sun lounger and no longer standing. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why we invented it, Mr Cap! And that's why you're going to leave your voters too, and that's why you're not taking anyone seriously anymore. I can read it to you for a moment, because you can't even remember it externally: Health insurance contributions will be increased in the health system. The price of the vignette is increased. The care money we really cut because there is no adjustment in four years. Valorization of all charges and charges is at the doorstep. They are already thinking about a kerosene tax so that the Austrians' holidays become even more expensive. The CO2 tax is supposed to come. The Minister for Education has had a very "total" idea, the so-called cinema tax. – I say pocket money tax because our young people who want to go to the cinema on weekends will have to pay even more because this minister wants to introduce a tax on cinematographic films! The freelancers are charged by Mr Matznetter by no longer favouring the profits that have not been collected. The pensioners have to carry the strains, full pipe. They're even the poorest ones, they have to pay everywhere. In the case of public transport, everywhere is disbursed. The “Kurier” wrote: A tax hysteria takes place in this country! – And this is a fact, for example, with the drivers, and that is really inconceivable: There are 2 million commuters in our country who depend on their car to drive by car every day, and They sniff up the mineral oil tax around the double. There is no normal increase, no to double, around 500 million €! Nearly 4 billion will be the revenue from the mineral oil tax. A donor who travels from Freistadt to Linz will have to pay €70 more in future, from Feldbach to Graz €97, or if I pendle from Oberwart to Vienna – and I personally know several counterparts commuting from Oberwart to Vienna and back – I have to pay €240 more! Now explain this to an employee who may have a minimum wage and is dependent on the car! – This is not a social dimension, we do not support it. We will therefore take over the representation of drivers in this country. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We have added a homepage under "www.milchkuh.at" where everyone can find out. [[the speaker places a panel with the label “www.milkkuh.at” on the speaker’s desk]] We also installed a computer on this website: Any donor, anyone driving the car, can enter which car he is driving, as many kilometers, and then it is calculated what this government is causing him with extra costs. This is really an incredible thing that happens here. We don't want to do that, so we say: Give the pendulum a real discharge! Not 10 percent penalty, which the poor do not even meet, but we make it possible for the way from work and to work with the car to be tax-deductible! – This is an innovative measure for the commuters, and we want to implement it accordingly. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] ==References== May, on which this budget is decided, ladies and gentlemen, is the payday for the Austrians. Whereever it hurts, it is particularly involved. It is the first “bare” submission presented by this government, namely, to ‘ grab hold of the people’s pockets’, new debts, higher taxes at the best economic level. - We don't understand. We just don't understand that you don't finally use the hour's commandment. The command of the hour can only be called: Tax reform now and not in 2010 sometime before the election. Now, the tax revenues are bubbling. You have € 5 billion a year more tax revenue, and we from the BZÖ say the taxpayers have a right that they also benefit from these additional incomes that they will be relieved. That is why we say: Down with the wage tax, down with the health taxes, harmonisation of corporate taxes, 25 percent over all forms of company over it, tax stop and relief for the middle class, for women and for families. – You could do that with the money you have now. Take it into your hand, relieve the people and do not burden them on how you do it, ladies and gentlemen, dear! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Safety keyword: Mr. Finanzminister Molterer, it took only a few hours to bring you to the truth. You said in your speech yesterday, we have 26 884 officers on duty, a more of 206. – Mr Finanzminister, there is something completely different in the budget. You have forgotten that 780 posts are unoccupied that 223 are in security academies and 489 are in the police school. That means we've got fewer police on the job at the moment, less on the street. And this is also seen because of the increase in crime of 10 percent in the first two months! This is not a security policy as we want it to be. They do not really increase the budget for security, but it remains essentially the same. This is not an announcement in the fight against crime. Only the prisoners to release early, as your Minister of Justice wants, but nothing to do for security, nothing in the fight against crime, that is too little for us. That is why we will also use ourselves as a security party for the security and protection of human beings in this country, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But we also want – and that would be the point – that you do something about wage and price policy. According to Wifo, people have to expect an increase of 0.9 to 0.7 percent in wages and income next year; if you subtract all the loads, that is only half, only more than 0.4 to 0.2 percent. That is why this tax reform is so necessary. More wages, more income through a smart tax reform that people have achieved through their work – that would be your job until then to promote employee participation in businesses where high profits are achieved. You said, Minister of Finance, that Austria should be made the number one country in Europe. Then why don't you do it? We are currently taking 10th place when we put budget surpluses and deficits in a row. Seven countries in Europe are already producing a surplus, and I say, Minister of Finance, that would have been possible this year – due to the tax surplus revenue of 5 billion per year, due to the prosperous economy, ultimately due to the tax performance of all. - But you don't. They continue to write debts and increase taxes. We do not understand this either in the social sector or in the health sector. Have you ever thought about why the elderly, pensioners in this country can't even afford the drugs to a large extent? – Because we have with 20 percent the second highest VAT on medicines in the EU. Why have you not done something innovative here for the elderly and for those who need it, for the sick, for those who can no longer afford drugs? Why don't you, as we have requested in this House, halve VAT on medicines and actually make health manageable? That would be a good idea. Italy has only more than 8 percent VAT on medicines. Down with these taxes on medicines – it would be possible to finance it! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Anti-performance models, such as the minimum security, which is to bring €726 to all, including those who do not work, but only € 850 net minimum wage for those who work hard every day, are an unfair, non-social policy, as well as measures in the field of care money or in the world of work. They want to give skilled workers a mobility premium, but at the same time tax mobility in this country in such a way that one can hardly move on to a halt. You would have had a huge chance at the budget, Mr. Finanzminister – a huge chance – to achieve both because of the good economic situation: not to put on a surplus, but ultimately the tax screw as you did. “Budget is the art of distributing disappointments evenly,” said Maurice Stans, a U.S. trade minister. You have enriched this quote: They not only distribute disappointments evenly, but also distribute the loads fairly evenly across them. – This is not the policy we expect. The only thing you have said was that we can build on the achievements of the past few years, because we have left this government a good heritage; this is also seen because of the good revenue that is now taking place. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We will fight for people not to be burdened in the future, but burdened that they have more money in their pockets. More wages, more income, more protection, more security and a bit less pride from the rulers, a bit less privileges and post-chachers – for this we will enter the BZÖ than the Austrian party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e3395	Now the Federal Chancellor is speaking for a ten minute speech. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e3416	Madam President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I believe that first readings are ideal for expressing the different priorities of the parties represented in Parliament. But honestly, The current debate has not yet been particularly inspiring in the sense of new proposals. For if someone has not yet been convinced of the budget presented here, then I must say that the criticism that has been attached to the budget so far is actually a confirmation that different objectives have been linked in a very good balance. [[Abg. Oillinger: That's how you can see it!]] What is it about when Mr. Klubobmann Van der Bellen says that the budget deficit is too high when the clubman sitting next to him says that this budget follows the zero deficit fetishism? – You can choose it! One is too much, the other is too little, so obviously a reasonable measure has been found. This budget not only guarantees financial stability but also invests in those areas that are necessary for the future of our country. That is why, I believe, we can say to this budget with good conscience, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] What are the essential signals we want to send? On the one hand, it is important that we try to keep home in times of good economic activity, of course. That's clear. When else should you make a disciplined budget, if not now! I believe that at the end of the year the implementation will be even better than the budget. Professor Van der Ballen, you know the budget, you know on which unemployment rates have been calculated, for example. Because of good growth, we can assume that unemployment will decline dramatically in this year; that is what the economic researchers say. This will also lead to further discharge from public budgets. We can also rightly assume that the budget deficit at the end of the year will be significantly lower than it is now adopted. That is to say, half the joy today, but at the end of the year, when there will be more employment, less unemployment and a lower budget deficit, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In addition to reducing unemployment and thus increasing opportunities for more people, it is safe to strengthen social fairness and social compensation. Klubobmann Westenthaler addressed the Sermon on the Mount. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Debts Sermon!]] I think this suggestion was not so bad at all, because, Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler – you certainly know it in detail – the Sermon on the Mount is the sermon, which is, above all, the charity in the social dimension, which strongly points to social fairness and social compensation. I can tell you that if this budget is a contribution to achieving the ideas of the Sermon on the Mount, i.e. more social fairness, then we are all very happy. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the optimism of the Austrians is justified: Pensions are rising disproportionately this year, because there is not only the compensation for the price of the pension, but also socially staggered one-off payments. We have raised the minimum pensions disproportionately so that all pensioners are taken out of poverty. In addition, there is additional investment in education. They can be more and more, that's right, but the introduction, Professor Van der Bellen, to the reduction of the maximum number of students, of course offers the possibilities of individual care. Because in a class of 30 or more you can of course take less care of each student, but at 25 or less you can also realize the entire proposals, which were also presented by the Future Commission, more about the individual students. Therefore, this entry into a school's quality improvement programme by investing in addition, is a first very, very good step, which is also combined with a strengthening of early pedagogy, more language courses also for children who have problems with the German language, and an extension of the whole day school offer throughout Austria. These are essential measures that will improve the quality of education and educational opportunities in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] One important point, of course, is family policy, which was discussed yesterday and which Mr Vice-Chancellor, I think, referred to very clearly; family policy, which is essentially based on two approaches: First of all, we want to strengthen support in the field of multiple-child families, which is why the state's support is increased here. – This is an essential support because we have found that there are significant social problems in the area of multiple-child families in particular. The second, which is very important, is the flexibility of the child's money, which enables many women to return to work sooner if they want it. This will, of course, significantly mitigate the problem of re-entry. The third thing you need to do, and there is also the discussions with the federal states, are the childcare facilities so that the children can also be well accommodated. Professor Van der Bellen, we are not only discussing the federal budget here, because this also has a significant impact on the countries. This budget will mean that the countries will have a very significant increase in revenue. Therefore, we also discuss joint projects with countries such as care, such as childcare and also the contribution to climate protection. At the end of the day, it must be an entire work in order to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves here. I believe that these initiatives in family policy will lead to Austria becoming a more child-friendly country – and we need this urgently if we want the birth rates in Austria to continue to rise in the future. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is true that in the field of science and research, one can also make more and more of it at universities, but I believe that the course we have set is to extend 3 per cent of the gross domestic product for research and development, together with the private sector, is realistic. The expansion plan of the universities was presented yesterday by the Vice-Chancellor. And honestly, Professor Van der Bellen, the comparison with Harvard is good – a really good comparison – one should just say that Harvard is not financed by the state budget, and one should also say what tuition fees are required in Harvard. I would be glad if we had such an institution in Austria, but these are not failures of today or yesterday, but the failures are 300 years behind, because the roots of these American elite universities are equally old. I would say that our objective must be to increase, in general, the level of universities in Austria, in addition to the top research institute we have. We shall try to achieve this gradually. We will not be able to measure Harvard on the first day, because economic means are not enough today or in the past. Therefore – allow me – I think it is a bit polemic to bring this comparison into the debate. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am also very glad that the board of voestalpine decided yesterday to buy Böhler-Uddeholm. This will remain a centrepiece of the Austrian industry in Austrian hands. It is about industrial competence, it is a very, very important area where we can compete on the world market. I am glad that Voest's core shareholders have decided to take this step together with the Board of Directors, because I think that is very essential for the further development of our economic structure in Austria. We lie down, I think, when you look around the country like that. Last week I was on my way to Upper Austria and Lower Austria: The mood in the farms is good, we have experienced increasing employment. If you look at the results of the surveys at the beginning of the year: The Austrians enter this year with great optimism. With this budget, we are trying to strengthen this optimism and invest in the future – with all the austerity criteria, which, of course, apply to us. I think this budget has been well managed.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e3508	The next item is the speech by Mr. Vice-Chancellor Mag. Molterer, also for 10 minutes. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e3530	Madam President. High house! It is interesting to follow this discussion on the 2007/2008 budget in the first round. We are confronted with criticism. – Well, that belongs to that, which is also in order in the dialogue between government and opposition, in the measurement of the arguments. But keep in mind what has been said in the last hour. On the one hand, it has been said and criticised that this federal government is too much to say that the deficit is too high. Interestingly, however, no one has said where something should be deleted, where something should be saved, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: With the Eurofighters! By the Eurofighters!]] If you no longer think, Mr Pilz – I am not surprised that this comes from you – if you no longer think of saving Mr Pilz than on safety, then, I think, the Greens have given up an essential political claim to ensure security. – I can only say, if I may! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The second part of the criticism is: We don't spend too much on spending there, there and there. – But those who criticize this do not say that this more spending would lead to more taxes or higher debts. You must tell us now, ladies and gentlemen: How would you like it if on one side is said it's too much, and on the other hand, it's too little. – We give the answer with our budget. We are right, ladies and gentlemen, we have set the accents well! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Solid budgets and investing properly – that is exactly the right answer and the good answer that leads our country to a good future. Then there are some criticisms you need to address. It is criticized for making a budget deficit at a time like this. – Well, that’s an argument you have to take up. First: We have agreed far less on the general government deficit than on the government negotiations a few months ago, because I said, of course, we have to respond properly to this good economic situation. Therefore, the general government deficit is not 1.12 percent this year, but 0.91 percent and next year is not 0.88 percent, but 0.73 percent. That is right, that is necessary; and of course we have also correctly implemented the signals of the economy. But, ladies and gentlemen, I am now going a little deeper into this debate. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Oh, oh!]] – You are doing quite well, Mr Pilz, in the sense of adult education, that you are listening now. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Van der Bellen, you said: We have – now I only go to the federal side, which you have pointed out – a finish of €3.9 billion this year and an end of €3 billion next year. - Yes, that's right! I have, however, considered very carefully how to judge this, Mr Van der Bellen. If we had not implemented the economic packages and tax relief in 2004, 2005, 2006, then the federal government alone would have a surplus of plus 0.1 percent and plus 0.2 percent this year, only because of the fact that tax relief and business packages are tax relief, but we would by far not have the growth rates that we have. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it was right to set these economic impulses. The economy is growing more strongly and unemployment is falling more than expected. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have therefore also considered the question of structural surpluses, primary surpluses alone of the federal government. You know: Primary surpluses mean, in the sense of adult education, Mr Pilz, what do we have in the budget without having to pay interest for the debts that exist. This year, Mr Van der Bellen, we would have a primary surplus of €2.8 billion and a primary surplus of €3.6 billion next year. – Therefore, what I said yesterday is true: We carry the debt backpack and have to cut it down so that this primary surplus becomes a real budget surplus step by step. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the objective of this legislative period for 2010. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: What has been depleted from debt in recent years?]] Interestingly, what I don't understand at all, you suddenly criticize that we have the general state in mind. – Who, Mr Colleague Van der Bellen, if not we, should the state have in mind? Why? You know exactly – if you don't know it, I tell you – that we have concluded a Stability Pact with the Federal Government, the Länder and the local authorities, which is committed to achieving a budget surplus. That was part of the financial compensation. – Faith Are you serious that someone would have made a financial compensation like this without the Stability Pact? That is why I also say: Yes, we demand from the countries and communities that they make their positive contribution. They can also afford it because this economic development also leads to a tax development, which, in fact, also allows the countries to actually generate their surpluses. This requires some effort also at the level of the federal states – that is so. What's even more important to me: We – the Federal Government – also bear responsibility for the general state towards the European Union. It is also a matter of exercising this overall responsibility, and therefore it is so important that we managed to get under this 60 percent debt ratio for the first time since 1993 with this double budget. – A real breakthrough, my Ladies and gentlemen, we can be proud of together! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If we set this goal – I know it is ambitious – that we want to become number 1 in the European Union, then of course we must... [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Where?]] Mr Van der Bellen! I think we really have the prerequisites. Why are you not as confident as Austria can be confident because we are just good, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I don't understand. They themselves say we are developing well in research. Your own words: We are developing well in research. – We are on the right track that we reach the goal as well. We are developing in unemployment – these are not our figures; we are even more cautious about budget assumptions – we are developing towards the unemployment rate of 4.2, 4.1 percent, the economic researchers tell us. – That goes towards full employment! Which European country can say that? We can do this, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Rossmann: What does full employment mean for you?]] In this sense, this budget also focused on: Education, research and development, climate action, environmental offensive. We are the first European country to respond to the decisions of the Brussels European Council. Parliament will be given a law to create this climate fund; we have already provided for it in the budget. I can show you this very well: 50 million this year, 150 million already next year. This is a concrete policy for the future to achieve this objective. Last comment: I expressly welcome the decision taken yesterday by Voest and Böhler in common. I think this is right, even for the structure of the industrial site in Austria, but I already say that it is possible because it is two strong, economically successful, privatized companies, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The last sentence I'm dealing with Please: We do not fall into a simple rhetoric that suddenly begins to distinguish between Austrian and non-Austrian capital! We are proud that we are investing abroad. There is no one-way, but we are an open economy. Investing will only be someone who can earn in Austria because we are a good location and have good businesses. A single runway ends up in a dead end, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e3687	The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer; six minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e3709	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Molterer, when we talk about growth and education, I would just like to say on your budget speech yesterday, in the sense of adult education: The Danube does not flow through the European Union from its origin to its mouth, as it flows through Serbia, and Serbia is not a member of the European Union. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Reread!]] But I assume Mrs. Foreign Minister has already told you about it yesterday. [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: You're already in favour of Serbia becoming a member, aren't you?]] The budget clearly shows that after the elections of 1st. On October 11, when the old government and the old politics were elected after the change of power of the 11th century. There is now also a change of policy. It can also give everyone an idea of this policy change, if they simply look at the important policy areas that have been seriously neglected in recent years – in the field of education, in the social field, in the fight against unemployment, but also in the field of the environment, women's policy. For example, what has education policy been like over the last seven years? What was she influenced by? – She was characterized by hourly cuts, she was characterized by more goers – fewer teachers, she was characterized by the deletion of support and integration measures, she was characterized by measures of saving and certainly not to improve the school. What is it like now on the basis of this budget? – Class students are being reduced, there are more teachers, there is another start to build up support and integration measures, scholarships are being increased, universities get more money, student grants are increased. There the change of course is quite, quite clear. In the field of social affairs: What were the essential things in the last seven years? What was the area of? – He was characterized by real pension cuts. In other words, even minimum pensioners could afford less from year to year with their pension. The social sector was marked by an increase in the number of poor and vulnerable to poverty from year to year. He was impressed that new restraints were invented, that self - restraints were increased. And what happens now? – Now the minimum pensions are increased by almost 500 € per year, by 35 € per month. With the need-oriented minimum security, there is an answer from the policy to the rising poverty in this country, which is being countered. [[Abg. Oils: Not yet!]] There is no increase in self retention in this country, on the contrary, they are covered. Because prior to that, the question of prescription fees was criticised by the liberals: There is now an answer, namely: Chronically ill people pay no more than 2 percent of net income. This means that for chronically ill 60, 70, even up to 100 € less retention per month. And this is a clear policy change, everyone can make a clear picture of it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What has happened in the area of unemployment in recent years? – From month to month a new record unemployment was simply announced, one has tried to hide the unemployed through training, has not committed any action, and it was from year to year, from month to month less money for active labour market policy, for the individual unemployed. What does that look like? – Now there is a clear political commitment to reduce unemployment, including youth unemployment, which has exploded especially in recent years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] – The overall unemployment is to be reduced by 25 percent, as is the government programme, and the measures to do so are also available. There is more money for the individual unemployed in terms of training and retraining than before, and the infrastructure project alone creates or ensures 80 000 to 100 000 jobs in this legislative period, according to the Wifo calculations. There, too, the policy change is clearly visible. It is also seen in many other areas: The women's budget, which has been shortened or at least not increased for years, is increased by 35 percent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] He is also seen in the field of environmental policy. But there are also drops of wormwood, not a question: Eurofighter. We would love to invest this over €400 million elsewhere. It is still a little time that the investigative committee helps to replace this pointless issue with meaningful measures. We would like to invest this much more particularly in education, but also in other areas, that is no question at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] This change of course, this change of policy, is not only due to one party, but both parties also want to take part in this change of course, this change of policy. The Minister of Finance also recognises the change of course. He said yesterday in his budget speech that another policy was made from 2000 to 2006 – we do not share the assessment of this policy, that is not necessary either. But if he says that we are now setting up a new chapter in the history of Austrian budgetary policy, what is this other than a change of course? I hear it most often: The direction is right! [[Abg. May. Kukacka: That will continue!]] What they complain about is: There too slow, there too little. – I am of this opinion, too. The motto for the future can only be called: Keep course and more pace! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e3813	The next item is Mr Dr. Stummvoll. 6 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e3864	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! This is a gift for Klubobmann Dr. Cap, because we want to shape the future together, and therefore it makes little sense to argue about data and facts, Mr Cap! [[pointing to the table]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] This graph shows the revenue-expenditure accounts of the government budget without taking into account old debts. If you take this into account, a total deficit of €20 billion for the 16 years from 1970 to 1986 and a surplus of €20 billion for the period 2000 to 2006. – Mr Cap! We do not need to argue about facts and facts in the future! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] [[The speaker handed over Abg. Dr. Cap the graph.]] [[Abg. Strache: What is 1986 to 2000? You left out 1986 to 2000! You weren't there?]] Ladies and gentlemen, the day yesterday was politically and economically marked by two events: in Parliament here by the excellent budget speech of our Minister of Finance and Deputy Chancellors and in industry by the deal Voest and Böhler-Uddeholm. The relationship between budget and this deal is a very encouraging one: While in previous years Voest and Böhler have appeared on the expenditure side of the budget, because these were deficient, indebted enterprises that needed high state subsidies at the time of the national government, these are today successful privatized industrial enterprises that appear on the revenue side of the budget because they supply significant income taxes. [[Abg. Gaal: Have you given everything!]] – The comparison makes us sure, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] Mr Cap, because You look so skeptical: To whom this comparison is not enough yet, another comparison: Two privatized companies brought together an Austrian strong solution, while the opponents of privatisation were happy that they could sell their trade union bank to a foreign investor – and then no one spoke of a disaster! [[Abg. Scheibner: We are the opposition!]] This is almost an irony of recent economic history, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I do not even ask where today is the former central savings bank, the Landesbank, the Bank Austria, I do not ask this question at all! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To this double budget: For me, it is a budget first of sustainability, second of solid state finances and third of future optimism. This double budget builds on a very successful financial and economic policy over the past seven years – on a financial policy that has led us from the last third of the EU countries to the top third, a financial policy that has direct consequences for people in that country. If we have an increase of 56,000 jobs this year, ladies and gentlemen, if not as a result of the 1. October, but as a result of a very consistent sustainable financial policy in recent years! You have to say that. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] This financial policy is gladly continued to a high degree, with the three strategic objectives: Stability in the state budget, i.e. solid state finances, investment in the future and discharge of citizens and businesses, for which we are currently working out the margin to carry out this tax reduction, Mr Cap, together in 2010. Let us stay at the first point: solid state finances. A few figures on this: In the years 1970 to 1986, in these 16 years, the financial debt ratio increased from 10 percent to 45 percent. From 1986 to today, since ÖVP bears government responsibility, the financial debt ratio has increased from 45 to 55 percent in these 20 years. – This comparison makes us sure, ladies and gentlemen, too! So: solid state finances – the state budget is in the best hands with this Minister of Finance! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, Investment in the future. I remember – I am so honest – even when I was a finance secretary many years ago, I criticized: We spend too little on the future! It is so important that we invest in education, research, development and infrastructure, because that is the future and decides on jobs in the future. We clearly say that we have to develop the scope for a tax reduction towards the end of the legislative period. We don't have anything to give! This room for discharge must be developed! We shall continue to do so consistently. We can build on seven successful years and have another four successful years ahead of us.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e3990	Next, Mr Magistrate. Rossmann speaking. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e4012	Madam President. High house! If you, Mr Federal Minister, put on the Austrian Stability Pact, I wonder seriously why you will not present us in your double budget a Maastricht deficit of 0.6 per cent this year and 0.5 per cent next year. The Austrian Stability Pact provides that the countries will have to generate about 0.7 percent of the gross domestic product in surpluses. They are based on the documents you presented to us, 0.4 percent for this year and 0.5 percent for the coming year. They therefore adopt the Austrian Stability Pact. But you say that's a valid legal situation. The Austrian Stability Pact is already valid legal status, which is already correct, but there is an investigation by the national debt committee that has shown that violations of the Austrian Stability Pact are on the agenda. And why are the violations of the Austrian Stability Pact now on the agenda? – Because the countries do not get to grips with their households and their budgetary situation. There are a number of federal states that cannot be expected to meet the requirements of the Stability Pact in the dream. [[Interference of Vice-Cancellor Mag. Molterer.]] – Well, not written in, but you called on this pact – and I appeal to this law. These countries are unable to fulfil this, in particular I would like to highlight the federal states of Styria and Carinthia, but many other countries are also struggling with their budgets. I now turn to the facts and figures you presented to us yesterday. These figures once again show that what you used to say is everywhere – everywhere! – to become number one in Europe, with these budgets far from being met. Let us take back the field of education, schools, universities, we take the climate protection offensive: Well, something's already being done, that's right, but it's going to be cracked here and it's not fucking. In these areas, I think, it has to be fucked. Only in this way can we become the number one in Europe – and not the other! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But it is not only a question of an offensive in the field of schools and universities and in the field of climate protection, it is also about important solutions that we need to find, solutions that we must take if we are to become number one in Europe: firstly, the resolution of the need for care, the reduction of poverty through basic social security, but also the support of climate protection and growth and employment, a change in the tax system according to ecological and social criteria, a change in the tax system towards a relief of the factor of work – but it is not at all a question. On the contrary: By increasing health insurance contributions, the labour factor is not removed, but burdened. And we can also observe redistribution up: by the up-to-date abolition of the inheritance tax. Yes, Josef Cap, if this is to be the contributions of the Socialist Group, their traces in this budget, I ask myself seriously: Do you really think this is serious – the discharge of millions of heirs? That can't really be serious! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The train, I think, is heading in the wrong direction! The double budget sets wrong priorities. [[Interference of Vice-Cancellor Mag. Molterer.]] The best example of this is probably the national defence budgets: € 517 million more, of which € 467 million alone for the Eurofighters! [[Abg. Grandruck: Do you think we'll get it?- Oh, my God!]] Finally, a few comments on the infrastructure offensive. You said yesterday in your budget speech: The track has priority over the road. In the overview 21 of the budget report I read: In 2007 and 2008, €3 billion will be spent on the ÖBB and €3.55 billion on the road. That means black on white: more money for the road and no more money for the rail! How do you finance that? – They finance it out of debt. This is basically not bad for infrastructure investment, because these future generations also benefit, but you should confess to it. You should not be in debt-related child-moving; not in connection with out-of-budget debt and not in connection with the debt you have been responsible for since 1986, since you were in that government. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] You're responsible for every cent of debt! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e4084	Mr Grastaur. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent report. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e4106	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Mr Finanzminister, you presented the Austrian Federal budget yesterday in a very grueling but state-bearing speech. I felt like I was in Molterer's Schlaraffenland. [[Abg. Grandruck: That was true!]] I admit that there are some good approaches in this budget. [[Demonstrative applause by Dr. Schüssel and Kurt Eder.]] But honestly: The great litter, Dr. Shut up, it's not become! – I am not alone with this view. For example, the “Economic Sheet” writes: ‘This budget is really not a genius.’ The “standard” writes: Stresses now – discharges later. There's a saying that fits very well: What you can get today, don't move it to tomorrow! – This should also be a currency for this federal government. If you have spoken of a primary surplus today, Mr Finanzminister, I tell you that I think this is a statistical swindle. Because the fact that you confirmed this yesterday is: Each Austrian pays €3 050 a year in debt reduction and interest for the debts that Austria already has and which we owe to a large part of the ÖVP and SPÖ in this state. How does the reality of this budget really look? – There is still a budgetary burden policy. I am not surprised, it is said that Mr. Finanzminister A. D. Grasser was involved in this budget creation. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: No!]] The real priorities in the budget are missing, tax increases are partly arbitrary – such as in the case of mineral oil tax – and the deficit continues to be enormous. It cannot be right, Minister of Finance, that debt policy is still correct. We already have 168 billion € debt in Austria and pay for this debt mountain 9.3 billion € interest per year! That's 14 percent of government spending! What I particularly lack is that there is no comprehensive state reform. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Unfortunately this is not in the budget!]] We know for a long time what the people think of election promises, because the foreign exchange is: Promise – nothing kept! I would like to pay particular attention to an election promise made by the SPÖ. We have always talked about the social cold of the last federal government in the election campaign. What is to be understood and how this now affects the first actions of this government: Increase in health insurance contributions, increase in the tax on mineral oils, increase in the price of the motorway vignette, abolish the amount of withdrawal for profits not collected, abolition of inheritance and gift tax may also be removed from the table. The ÖAMTC has found that the operation of a VW golf in 1999 cost less by €500 compared to now, which is 60 percent difference with an index of 20 percent – this shows the so-called social warmth of the SPÖ today. So you get the taxpayers into the wallet quite a lot. As you said, Mr Finanzminister, there are no proposals on how to save – which is urgently necessary – I will bring you some: Harmonization of pensions at ASVG level, reduction of grants to the ÖBB, savings in the area of immigration by means of immigration stoppages, faster treatment of asylum applications, reduction of the number of prisoners in detention centres through increased prevention and deportation of foreigners, further aggregation in the area of social security, the administrative reserves will succeed – there are at least €3 billion inside –, reduction of the bureaucracy triggered by the state – currently €8 billion annually. That this is happening, we will look closely at it, and if it is not, we will raise our word in the interests of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e4178	The next item is the speech by Mr Bucher. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e4199	Madam President. Delighted representatives on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Klubobmann Cap, it is not that you always have to bet about everything from the point of view of the opposition, you can also start with positive comments, and I can start with positive comments on the double budget 2007/2008. I have heard very well that there is a change of course. This change of course is legitimate and real. I say quite frankly to you: We would never have carried this budget with these burdens! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: I say yes!]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You would have carried everything!]] In this way it is a change of course, because the BZÖ has always intervened in this – we have now held fifty discussions about it – that taxes will finally be reduced because of a reduction in taxes, because the reduction of taxes leads to an upward trend in the economy. We now have a good economy, the economy is flourishing. It is therefore not understandable for us that this positive effect will not be exploited in order to achieve a new tax reduction. From the teachings that have now been drawn, the realization that this was the right way we have gone is also to be derived. Remember the innumerable discussions we have held here. How often have we asked at this point: Down with taxes – up with employment, growth, prosperity and social peace in our country!Unknown term type: "%s".? How many times have we requested this? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. One.]] And now the coalition says: We're moving this to 2010! – Faith You're serious that we're taking you down that 2010 is a tax reduction? [[Interference of Vice-Cancellor Mag. Molterer.]] – Mr. Finance Minister and Deputy Chancellor, provided that the coalition lasts so long! You have to say that too! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you see how the climate is between red and black, it is not constructive, I have to say it quite openly. The second positive remark: The SPÖ has actually started from a very low level in the election campaign before the elections, has then worked up to the great election success and is now back at a low point. [[Abg. Scheibner: But only by the voices!]] The positive note, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, is: You're over the mountain! It's going up again! [[Call at the SPÖ: Here you have a rich experience from the BZÖ!]] I'll tell you: The broken election promises are reflected in this budget, and this will be true of the taxpayer and will also feel: It will feel it with increased additional wage costs. – Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, that would never have happened to us! [[Call:You did it yourself]] How often has the Chamber of Commerce, how many times have the Entrepreneurs pointed out that we need to reduce the additional wage costs – and now exactly the opposite happens! – An increase in additional wage costs would never have been feasible with us, even at the social insurance institutions, where we always agreed, also with Mr Molterer in the Tax Reform Commission to finally reform the social security institutions, to finally reduce administrative and administrative costs there. - We didn't succeed. I have had the hope that you will do this together with the SPÖ now, Mr Klubobmann Schüssel, where you have managed so much that you will now also convince the SPÖ to finally make an order in the social security institutions, to put down the entire functionality class with the burdens it causes there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Muttons]] [[OBJECTIVES]] – That would have been my hope. If you still have the pendlers – the pendlers! – with an increase in mineral oil tax, I must ask you: Ladies and gentlemen, how do you imagine that rural areas will look forward? – They want to thin the rural area! We have representatives of agriculture, the Federal Farmers' Government sitting here in the National Council, many of those who work in rural areas, who must see and feel that there are burdens on the commuters who are dependent on the car. Over 60 percent have to drive by car to work, have no chance of using public transport! And these are all serious now? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Are you comrade?]] Are you not aware of the long-term consequences that it will cost to rebuild rural areas later? [[Abg. Parnigoni: Your policy may not have been successful, otherwise you would have a different election result!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is a scrapping of the taxpayers of the very first quality found in this double budget 2007/2008! For this budgetary policy we are not to have! – We are for a slim state, for efficient structures, and we are in favour of reducing taxes, that we are finally making a tax reform that is structural, not always just turning on the tariff screw – once up, once down – but structurally simplifying the tax system so that each taxpayer can calculate its own tax and knows what it has to pay for tax. This saves administrative and administrative costs and leads to a slimmer, more efficient state, and this leads to more growth. Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP! With this double budget, you have suppressed the opportunities: It will be managed again and not designed!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e4356	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek's next speech. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e4378	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about the women's budget?]] Today, including the members of the Federal Government, a total of 110 colleagues have been spoken, and at least until 1 p.m., the spectators can get an overview of how much seriosity there is in the speeches here. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Very disappointing!]] Col. Westenthaler, with “Melk cows” will certainly not succeed in producing seriality. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Bet that this will succeed?]] – It’s about pro/contra, yes, but with level, Mr. Cot. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Ignorance has blamed you!]] Ladies and gentlemen, whether in Austria or elsewhere: A budget already conveys a very concrete picture of what the state is doing, what it spends its money for, and where it takes it. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I’m curious if you now trust to say how you judge the women’s budget, whether you say the same thing as in the “standard”!]] It is not only about Mr Westenthaler, how much is available in figures for a measure, but also about who benefits from it: the men and the women, the women and the men, the girls and the boys, the boys and the girls of a country. It is important not only to read between the lines, but also between the numbers. Of course, it is my job – I am now the first woman here at the speaker's desk – to draw attention to the aspect of women, to draw Mr. Westenthal's serious attention – to sharpen women's vision and to discuss the budget in a way that we get away from gender blind spots. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But not the last!]] I would like to point out where women already benefit from this double budget more than in previous budgets, but also what needs to be done to change and improve the situation of women. You know that as well as I do: Women and men live in different situations, have different life stories and contexts, so all of our policies also have different effects on men and women – that is clear. Budgetary policy is always gender policy. In this budget I really see some good approaches. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There are respectable increases that ensure that there is a real improvement in the living situation of women. But it's clear: Women's policy should and should not be limited to a single place. Our Minister of Women has been able to sit in the Federal Chancellor's Office and to interfere with her coordination function in all areas – it has already been seen that some effect has already been achieved. It is very important that the situation of women not only be bundled and made visible in one ministry, but is made visible in all ministries! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'm starting with the women's budget: In the last budgets – from 2000 to 2006 – the women's budget has been increased by €600 000; now the women's budget has managed to increase by 1 million in a single negotiation by the women's minister, this women's budget, with only the intervention agencies, and the entire female budget by 35 percent. That is, in a 35 percent negotiation, in six years by only 30 percent – this is really a progress, that is important. I would like to thank the Minister of Women and the Minister of the Interior for the success that the intervention agencies, which also provide violence protection for women who are there for women, if there are directions, have received more money for € 1 million per ministry. – Thank you very much for that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But not only the women's budget itself, but also the institutions working with women get more money. It is also about the fact that measures taken in other areas can, for example, remove 150 000 women from poverty, because the minimum pensions have been increased to € 726 and the compensation allowance has been increased. We know that women in particular are minimum pensioners and will certainly benefit from them. It will also succeed in negotiating a general collective agreement with the social partners, which, in turn, benefits many women. Because no one will earn more than € 1,000. I think it is time and opportunity to thank all employees of the labour market service very much today. They help women get back in, they help women when they are working – even men of course – they help when women come and need help. But thanks also to all the employees in the women's and girls' offices, all the equal treatment officers – no matter where they work, in the federal government, in the countries or in the districts – because they have a high responsibility. They ultimately ensure that we can implement these figures, which are available today, properly, and that terms such as "sex budgets" will become reality. Because that has so far been too little success, you have to say. Yesterday, the Minister of Finance simply forgot to mention that many measures are already being taken to benefit women. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] I am convinced that this federal government will do it and that the next budget will no longer be gender blind in 2009.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e4508	Next, Mr Grillitsch. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e4529	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My women Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This budget debate also gives rise to a situational determination of the parties and the economic situation: Who stands for growth? Who stands for debt? Who stands for a reduction in unemployment? [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] This is also clear today, and I am very glad that our Finance Minister, Willi Molterer, has succeeded in creating a real budget according to the principle of sustainability, ensuring that the economy is growing, that we have more jobs and that we can also face future challenges in terms of sustainability. Mr Finanzminister, congratulations on this sustainable budget! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The topic of climate, for example, is a major challenge, not only nationally, but globally and globally, whereby we are required – personally and also state-politically – to deal with resources and energy more carefully. I believe it is important that in this budget – also in a step-by-step role for Europe and for global developments – this climate fund was created in Austria with €500 million, enabling us to meet this challenge in research, development and implementation of concrete projects, so that we can ultimately secure our livelihoods. Because no man believed... [[Abg. Dr. Moser:... the protection of the climate!]] It is about securing the basis of life, Mrs Moser. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Yes, please!]] And that's what we do! [[Abg. Dr. Moser: But what do we spend it for?]] Here we offer people the opportunity to choose accordingly, to handle energy carefully and also to choose renewable energy. That is the approach that has been set up accordingly. This protection of the environment also comes with a large technology offensive, which allows us to create jobs, jobs not only in conurbation centres, but especially outside the regions where we can use domestic potentials that literally grow into the window, with new technologies. The motto of this sustainability and our Minister of Finance's budget is: Create work, protect the environment! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Ladies and gentlemen, we not only have clear objectives, but I am also very pleased that we now have clear mechanisms for implementing them for the first time, so that we can increase the share of renewable energy sources to 45 percent by 2020, in the field of fuel, in the area of heat, in the field of electricity production. Here we are particularly required to continue and pass on this direction-setting path for people in Austria and Europe. One thing is important to me today: It means taking care not to make debts. With this climate fund, with this development of renewable energy sources, Mr. Finanzminister, Federal Minister, we do not blame our children! We do not blame our children in dealing with nature and in dealing with our resources. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: But think about the debts of the ASFINAG...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The same applies to agriculture and forestry, in particular the relationship between climate, agriculture and forestry. Especially our rural people are the first to feel the corresponding climate changes because they have their workshop in free nature! That is why I am very glad that we succeeded – our clubman, our German chancellor at the time, and our Federal Minister – in ensuring the Green Pact for the peasant people accordingly, so that we can also provide adequate support to those people who produce on mining farms. Under the most difficult conditions, the miners must manage the landscape, supply safe food, keep the landscape open, produce environmentally friendly and animal-friendly. I am also very pleased that we have a corresponding environmental programme, in which more than 80 percent of farmers in Austria participate voluntarily with 90 percent of the area. This is not a mandatory regulation and not a command, but it is voluntary for farmers to provide environmental services – at the same time, for you – so that we can live up to your claim to produce safe food, to produce environmentally sound, to produce animal-friendly products. That is what we want to do in the future, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Overall, the approach to broadband technology is particularly important for rural areas. This is the key instrument for making this our rural area an attractive economic area in the future, in which we can re-establish a trend in which people find work on the spot again and earn income on the spot where people are re-establishing investments in which value added remains in the region. In this sense, I am glad that Willi Molterer has launched a new economic principle in Austria with this sustainability budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e4633	The next speaker is Mrs Lichtenecker. Also 6 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e4654	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! What would happen? You honestly expect a government that finally takes climate change seriously? – Of course, a package of measures and sufficient financial resources to protect the climate! [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: We both have!]] However, this has not been done with this 2007/2008 budget. If we take climate protection seriously, we need an energy change: We need to invest in more efficient use of energy, energy saving and renewable energy. [[Abg. That's what we're doing!]] We must take great steps now and immediately, Mr Grillitsch! But these big steps do not make this government, and this budget looks like it: it is embarrassing for climate and environmental protection! If you want to make effective climate protection with the planned resources, then it is as if you are walking on the big glockner, equipped with sandals and bathing pants! [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Go!]] They will not reach the summit. And you will not secure climate protection with these resources and these measures. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There is also the question here: Was there anything else to expect? Was there anything else to be expected from the central negotiators in climate protection, from the Ministers Pröll, Molterer and Bartenstein? – I say no! No, there was nothing else to be expected, because during the term of office of the former Environment Ministers, who were there Bartenstein, Molterer and Pröll, the greenhouse gases were continuously increasing each year. There have always been full - souled claims and goals, but no targets have been achieved! Nevertheless, we hoped until yesterday, but our worst fears have occurred: Climate protection has no priority for this government! Many facts prove that. On the one hand, there is a completely missing transport concept. It will not be invested in the regional railways and the secondary railways, but in large projects that do not make this great contribution to climate protection. The funds for the purchase of emission certificates abroad have been greatly increased so that water power plants and wind farms flow, for example, in China and New Zealand during this period over €200 million! – We say: It is better to invest in Austria, create jobs here and expand the eco electricity. [[Abg. Head: That's what we do!]] If you look at the industry, then we have the situation that this is so far too little to take into account. The industry gets a very large amount of pollution rights, and that's free. This gives very little incentive to actually reduce CO2 emissions – Mr Kopf, regrettably so. The 50 million proposed today for the Climate and Energy Funds, which will be invested in 2007, are too few. We need 200 million in 2007, but not 50, Mr Grillitsch. [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: What do we do with it?]] That's too little. [[Abg. Grill: You have no idea!]] Over the entire period, it's 800 million. [[Abg. Grill: Read the budget!]] This is what we need in order to increase energy efficiency and to force renewable energy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is always the talk of the fact that the current budgets are future-fit, they are called generation-fit and europefit. But these budgets are not forward-looking! You know that if we do not achieve climate change targets, we will face fine payments of up to €4 billion in the next few years. This will burden future budgets, ladies and gentlemen. So, what are you talking about when you say “future fit ”? When it comes to money, it is now the hour of truth, ladies and gentlemen! It is true that climate change and environmental protection are not important for Minister Pröll, Vice Chancellor Molte-rer and Chancellor Gusenbauer – [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Go, that's...!]] They have not recognized the signs of time – to the detriment of our climate, to the detriment of our environment and to the detriment of all Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e4817	The next speaker is Mrs Rosenkranz. Also 6 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e4838	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, High house! Mr. Vice-Kanzler, you are – this is true of an ÖVP politician and nothing rare for yourself – a master in painting a pastel painting in a quiet pose and here, instead of showing politics, actually a staging: [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: Over is also...!]] Everything's good, and what's not quite good is getting even better now, because we got it under control, we're doing it, it's good that it is. [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: Exactly!]] It is only stupid, Mr Vice-Chancellor, if the contradiction between the feeling of well-being you are spreading and the reality experienced by the citizen then goes through quite a lot! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the field of safety, it is, in any case, the same. “Austria is one of the safest countries in the world”, we have actually heard in the last six years at the beginning of each security debate. [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: Bravo!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That's also true, but, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, it is not your merit! It is the hard work, the fairness and the legal fidelity of the Austrians who make Austria one of the safest countries. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What you're letting happen and what you're doing by law is going in the direction that it's not! Nor do I want to have a comparison with other countries on earth, but I want to have a comparison between what it was like and what it is like now. This comparison looks bad for you, and you can't see that you're planning to change anything about it. Crime has increased by 20 percent since 2000 – by 20 percent! – and this, although statistics in their classification have been changed twice, so to speak, in favour of a good development. It leads too far to carry it out now – I don't have the time to do it – but it is. They simply don't take this into account at all. They say there are 206 police officers more than in the previous year. Yes, well – of which 2 500 are in training and therefore cannot be on the street has already been spoken – but: There are 2 000 less than 1999! There is a massive reduction in the executive, although crime is increasing. The Federal Chancellor said during the security debate that he wanted to pack the evil at the root. But none of you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, has mentioned only once that it is an imported crime! You won't catch the evil at the root if you don't have the courage to look things into the eye. I think you know, but you don't dare call that. As long as you do, nothing will change! You ignore, you just keep going. They also ignore the costs of completely uncontrolled immigration. We have 30 000 asylum seekers in basic care, which costs € 180 million a year. It's not that important to you because you know: It's a hot iron, we're not attacking it. – That, ladies and gentlemen, the Austrians have actually not deserved! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] “Integration before immigration” – oh, how often have we heard that! By the way, most of the time you mean only the German courses. Do you know, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, how many language courses there were last year? – 30, with 300 participants! Ladies and gentlemen, you save people from safety by not improving the executive. They refuse to recognize or name the causes of increasing crime, i.e. uncontrollable immigration, and thereby burden the Austrians, especially the social underlayers, enormously. They refuse to finally stop the unrestrained immigration. I can tell you that this is a policy that the Austrians have not deserved! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Secondly, Family policy, that is, country and people, and Austria, these are the Austrians. Everyone who is in politics must know that population development is the cause and the basis of everything. For decades each generation has replaced the previous only more than two thirds, so we have less – and actually far too few! – children to preserve prosperity and social security. We are only now experiencing the beginning of a development in which – as one of the well-known population scientists has said – no stone remains on the other. I wonder, especially in the direction of ÖVP: Don't you know? Do you not notice that the development of the population will lead to an end that will be terrible? Every club owner knows no matter what activity he describes and what projects he has: If it's not true with the work of young people, then it doesn't matter how the club will present itself in the next few years, because it's not certain that there is him! That's exactly the situation. What do we think about the family policy programme in the budget? – Actually, always the old-known: The compatibility of work and children is now being treated as a matter of priority. But where is the value of children, the value of those persons, the security of those persons who provide for children who care for children who raise children? Where is any kind of education allowance or an old age pension for children's mothers? – That would be a signal that Austria urgently needs! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor, you have made it one of your mottos We are fair and sustainable about the future. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign]] - You didn't succeed. It takes a turn here in the house, which you are not prepared to do and for which, for the benefit of Austria, we will fight with all our powers.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e4966	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. Also 6 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e5003	Mr Vice-Chancellor is just asking what kind of preaching I am taking. – We leave the sermons in the church or perhaps in your group, Mr Vice-Chancellor. [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: Or at Westenthaler!]] I would like to deal briefly with my previous speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, if you always criticise this way over the past seven years, I am surprised that you yourself are putting your light under the threshold. Because until three months ago, you were a successful health speaker of a government group here in the House. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosary.]] Your party was also in government for at least five of the seven years. We should be really proud of what we brought together at the time – especially if we have the comparison with the present government! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Not everything, no question, we didn't get through everywhere either. But what is shown here really mocks every description. This has not deserved Austria: such a federal government, such a coalition! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Mr Parnigoni, I have now heard Mr Cap's opposition speech. That's where I heard from the ÖVP: No, he can't, we'll teach him that he's taking the floor once for the government! Even the intermediate sounds that can be heard, not by us – please, Mr President, these are not my words, not that you give me a call for an order – but what kind things have been exchanged between the coalition here! You are now looking horrified, Mr Cap; it was also mainly in your speech. What did we hear? “This is a shame”, “Oberlehrer”, “Full case”, “Kasperl”, “Has there been Freibier in the SPÖ club today? “ These are the things that are being said quite openly, in addition to the geography teaching for Mr Vice-Chancellor of Mr Krainer and all the other teachings of you, Mr Cap. So this is a coalition that comes here a few weeks after its formation and is to present the first budget! Mr Cap, how will this continue in the next two, three, or four years? – But You know it won't be that long. You just have a little bit of a problem when you have to say at once: Austria is the safest country, we have the best health system, a good pension system – just a few weeks ago, you've been talking about all this bad and talking about all sorts of negative things here. You're right: The debt in the first big coalition you made together, SPÖ and ÖVP. But we have rehabilitated it, from 2000 onwards! This is the big difference, Mr Cap. [[BZÖ and Abg. Jakob Auer.]] You've complained about what an inheritance you've got to do. – At the time, you handed over a budget deficit of 3 percent, rising unemployment, falling economy. We now hand over to you a renovated government budget with 1 percent deficit, with declining unemployment and with a record economy! Mr Cap, you should not criticize this, you should be grateful to us. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] You should be truly grateful for what we are now giving you – unfortunately! – have to pass because there are no other alternatives. But I am also grateful for this because one will finally show up. Of course, it is always sad, if not everything is the way it is supposed to be, but the Austrians will make the comparison sure, and they will only now know what the last government has done to positive things: Childcare allowance, redundancies, equal treatment of workers and employees, record tax reduction, business packages in a difficult economic phase, pension harmonisation, health care system rehabilitated! Mr Cap! Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! These were the big goals we had at the beginning of the year 2000, which was the beginning of a coalition bowl/Riess passer. Where are your big issues today? Where's your euphoria? Where's your mood of departure? – This is a real depression! One haxel after another is put there. Please, how will this continue in the future? - You have to be really scared. You agree on the loads: At the same time, vignette prices will be increased, and it was quite skillful – but it should have really come from the ÖVP side because it was tactically very clever – to open up a climate-protection debate first and to make some nice proposals about not flying abroad – and then we will bring again a doubling in the increase in mineral oil tax, because these funds flow, so it is said, “in the climate protection” – because money has a mesh, Minister of the Environment! [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll]] Wonderfully from the strategy, but from the political consequence, because this must be paid by the Austrians. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Climate protection is not for nothing!]] Yes, climate protection is not in vain – then we also take care in foreign policy of where the climate is really ruined and burdened, namely in Asia, in China, in these regions where there is no environmental protection in which anti-competitive production is imported here to Austria and to the EU, so that our economy is damaged! And then we're supposed to overrun the few percent we're burdening here, even on the drivers! – This is certainly the wrong way, Mr Environment Minister, because we would expect something else. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] On the subject of security: The Minister of Defence is famous for having a bigger budget. It has already been said: This is the only case because of the Eurofighter procurement. But it is interesting that he is now also famous for it. Unfortunately, Mr Cap, he has not brought it together to negotiate the necessary budgets for the normal operation, because there is a reduction. Now you hear in the SPÖ, it would have been even worse under Platter – so again a sign of the lack of climate in this government. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] Last sentence, Mr President: You already have the loads. A tax reform is promised for 2010 – because you know that this tax reform will not come anyway, because it will be elected earlier!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e5122	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pröll. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e5143	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Your colleague at the government bank! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The creation of the double budget for 2007 and 2008 was not least under the motto of sustainability. Since I am also responsible in this country and, above all, for this principle of sustainability, I am particularly pleased that all parts of the social policy, which are also reflected in this budget, are based on this principle of shaping the future for our children and children. [[Abg. Dr. Bösch: “Networking” have you forgotten!]] [[Abg. Dr. Bösch: Whole words! Sound and smoke!]] There are so many here today, and it is good that we are talking about operating on a solid basis in the future and setting the right investment priorities. This budget also provides this framework. As far as my area, the issue of agricultural and environmental policy, is concerned, it can be noted that in the area of climate policy which you have so often criticized, there has never been so much money and concepts on the table for preventive protection of the environment, for proper investment in this area as in this 2007 and 2008 budget. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We will take over €600 million in money for environmental policy as a whole in the coming years – plus 2.5 percent, next year plus 7.3 percent – in order to put the right emphasis on all areas of Austrian environmental policy, from water conservation, air quality, renewable energy and climate protection. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Too little, Minister! Unfortunately, far too little!]] Only a few small parts, because this discrepancy, this supposed discrepancy, is always shown – focus abroad, focus in the country –: Yes, we strengthen domestic investments in the environment by €10 million, with an increase in environmental funding from 80 million to 90 million per year, but we will also support green investments abroad. Mr Scheibner, yes, we will help to ensure that CO2 reduction measures are also implemented in China and India, primarily by Austrian companies, which also benefit from them at their headquarters with a corresponding employment effect. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Plus 10 million in both areas: an important priority! With the establishment of the Climate and Energy Fund, we will launch something new – 500 million € by 2010 – which is unique in Europe. Of course, we have discussed intensively how to design such a fund, and we have jointly decided on the following path. First: € 500 million for the promotion of new technologies and innovations in all areas of climate protection; Renewables have been raised here as a point. We also want to make money available for the expansion of local transport, for the attraction of the changeover from road to rail. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Too little!]] With this €500 million we want to make sure that many innovations by Austrian scientists and also developments in private companies can not remain in line with innovation, but can achieve market maturity. This is a coherent concept: €500 million, which will help to protect climate in Austria, so that we can reach the goal – the admittedly very ambitious target – of minus 13 percent based on 1990 in the final billing in 2012. What we have done with the Climate and Energy Fund, second, is not to blow up the administration, but to entrust the Austrian funding policy, the research funding fund and the municipal credit to the management of this fund with proven support, to establish a very slim system, to do so with a lot of money, and to old funding mechanisms that work perfectly to anchor this money. [[Calls to the Greens.]] We are waiting for the proposals that will come on very smart and innovative projects. They will all have an objective in common, namely to operate climate change in Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the second point is agricultural policy. Here too, we have set clear emphasis on rural areas and farmers. We increase to €2.33 billion this year and €2.31 billion next year. We will thus be able to fulfill everything that has been sensationally negotiated in Brussels during the last government period. We are therefore the country in Europe which is more focused on regional development than on organic farming, on the support of the mining industry. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] We are doubling investment promotion and will therefore also put important impulses in the rural area outside of the farm. It is an excellent result in the environment and agriculture sector and will continue to support the quality of life in Austria so that we can keep our number one position in Europe in this area as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e5253	From the government bank, Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied spoke. Also 5 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e5274	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about the “Kino tax” that burdens young people?]] Education is the theme of our society's future, education is the basis of prosperity, value added and competitiveness. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: “Personal fulfillment” have you forgotten!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about the “Kino tax”?]] This Federal Government invests €6.9 billion in education, culture and art in 2007, €7 billion in 2008. This is much more than in the years before. We start 2007/2008 with the following projects – I fill out four projects –: First project: smaller classes, “Project 25”. 193,000 pupils will benefit from this project. In the future, 193,000 pupils will receive more funding from teachers. This is a great progress in education policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of course, the breakdown figures are also adjusted in the context of the “Project 25”. This means that there will be a higher quality in the field of foreign language teaching. While 55 percent of foreign language classes once had more than 25 pupils, this will no longer be possible in the future. That's quality in education! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Third priority project: Reduce the drop-out ratio at the ninth level. We are very much in the field of promotion of German language skills as well. We're responding to the PISA study. Here we have to set clear impulses. This concerns vocational secondary and higher schools and upper-level re gymnasia. Fourth point: Increase in pupils' allowances. Pupil support is increased by 15 percent. This is a first increase since 1999. 40 000 pupils are beneficiaries of this measure and are more supported than before. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Other priorities that we have taken into account in the budget for our education policy are: Increase day care – 26 000 more places, promotion of integration, healthy school, political education, lifelong learning, promotion of vocational training. – All these are projects that we have integrated into this double budget and that make clear: The turn of education policy is here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Politics must be – and now I come to the field of art and culture – the great cultural heritage of this country and the artists. The large cultural institutions – I mean now Bundestheater and Bundesmuseen – will receive €236 million in 2008. This is €11 million more than in previous years. I set priorities in the field of funding, especially in the film sector, in the case of cross-disciplinary projects. A major focus is also the preparation of the project “Culture Capital Linz”. However, one point is very important to me in connection with cultural policy, and this concerns the relationship between politics and art. Those who produce art in their countless intertones, invent it and develop it in a fantastic way, rightly expect from politics and from me as Minister of Culture forms of encouragement and dialogue. I'm going to act as a minister for this, and I want to stand for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e5368	The next speaker was Mr Ddr. Decliner. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e5389	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Education, science, social affairs, innovation, research are priorities, and I could now list half an hour of the projects that the Federal Minister of Education has begun, and would probably not be in the end, because there is really a clear focus in this area. On the one hand, there are some €200 000 million in addition to the budget, and, Mr Van der Bellen, one also has to take into account in this bill: There are increasingly fewer pupils. We have always said that we should use this less for students – 40 000 for example in compulsory schools – to leave teachers, to enter into other areas and to benefit from quality improvements. And that's exactly what we're doing with this budget now! – That means, of course, there is more time for each single child. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But let me add a personal comment to Mr Molterer's budget speech, which has already been discussed today. They missed Gags and Glamour, which may be true, but I liked them very well. And if Karl-Heinz Grasser has been the “best finance minister of all times”, Willi Molterer immediately managed to surpass him. [[Congratulations to representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The focus in detail: 25 pupils as a guide have already been mentioned. The difference is that we wanted to do this right away. If it were the case after the People's Party, that would have been the case only with the next financial compensation. There you see very clearly the Social Democratic manuscript. Fairness and justice are the top priority for each child. It starts with early promotion. We need an education plan here – we are on it. In addition to extending the language checks, however, it also needs to be promoted in the mother tongue of the children – much too little attention is paid to this. I know you won't like this, but every child needs the appropriate care in his mother tongue, whether it's Bosnian, Turkish, Croatian or whatever. This is a priority for equal opportunities and justice. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: This is handled differently in Finland! There the PISA study was excellent!]] No, this is also being handled in Finland, because the language scientific findings are the same in Finland as in Austria and anywhere else in the world. [[Abg. Strache: In Finland you have handled this differently!]] As a child develops, there are no differences, Mr. Strache. [[Abg. Strache: You always refer to Finland!]] We don't want an early separation. We have a project that we want to change this school structure. Smaller classes – one sentence or more – do not automatically lead to more quality. It would also make no sense to reduce only the classes, but at the same time we need instruments of quality assurance so that the school actually gets better. We would like to have more schools all day, and I would also like to take the opportunity to point out: It is not only about afternoon care, ladies and gentlemen, it is also about a pedagogical approach in schools all day! We must also benefit from this in order to improve the quality of schools in order to improve equal opportunities, to help the weaker children at this time, and to improve their skills accordingly in order to promote more talented children. That's an explained priority! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The key to all of this lies in the motivation of the teachers, the professors, the middle construction, all involved. And I think that there has been a decisive change, not only through the budget itself, through these figures, but also through the new federal government, which, whether it concerns schools or science, really sets new accents and makes clear to those acting in universities in schools: You are important to us, you are crucial to that we can also implement the reforms, we need you! And with the budget we create the conditions for a new school and for better quality for our children.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e5477	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. Also 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e5498	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Also for transport and infrastructure policy, yesterday's budget day brought an excellent message. We place the future of the site on the development of rail, and our investment programme for the high-level road network will lead to more growth and employment in this country. It is now once again undisputed, Mrs Colleague – even if the Greens and other infrastructural objectors do not want to do so – that: Rail and road are life approaches for the life and business location of Austria, also for the commuters, also for the companies, and they lead to more mobility and thus also to more growth in the economy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: You don't believe that yourself!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In total, more than originally agreed in the Coalition Agreement, namely €6.4 billion for the ÖBB and €4.6 billion for the ASFINAG, totaling €11 billion towards future opportunities and site security. And in no other legislative period of the Second Republic, there has ever been such a high investment rate in the transport infrastructure. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Yes, but unfortunately wrong!]] These investments are threefold of the comparative value in the Federal Republic of Germany and two and a half times the value in France. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's not necessary! These numbers show how crazy...!]] The Economic Research Institute has calculated that this investment will increase gross domestic product by around 1 percent and will create 20 000 jobs in the year and secure them in the long term. This package, my Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Finance have worked together. But I would also like to say: It therefore continues the overall transport plan of the previous legislative period, but it also sets new transport priorities and it has also been adapted to the financial possibilities of the coming years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At this point, I would like to express my thanks to Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance, but also to Transport Minister Faymann for his professional and also politically far-sighted cooperation, which has led to the fact that the priorities that have now been established are practically beyond the reach of broad support and cooperation on the part of all the federal states. Ladies and gentlemen, with the planned Möst increase, the transport infrastructure expansion offensive can be secured and financed. This – and this is what I would like to say here – is the final conclusion of all other proposals and demands for infrastructure financing, such as a CO2 tax or even a car toll, and for this legislative period and for the coming years and frameworks. Of course, this increase of the most is a wormhead drop for many commuters and drivers, nevertheless: This increase is reasonable in terms of transport policy and is highly reasonable in terms of climate policy, which will make it more useful to move towards a more environmentally sound transport, for which greater forced action is being taken within the framework of a comprehensive government climate change strategy. And the increase in the most is also an important signal to reduce tank tourism in Austria, because at least a third of the fuel sold in Austria is being dipped by foreigners – which unfortunately leads to the corresponding CO2 emissions being added to the Austrian climate balance, even if the spray is being processed abroad. I would also like to point out, however, that the share of income of the countries can now be financed from the increase in public transport, and this is a very special concern for us, ladies and gentlemen. And in this sense, I believe, we are also taking a big step forward in transport and infrastructure policy, a step that will bring Austria back into a secure future!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e5573	The next speaker was Mrs Sburny. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e5594	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! If you can say something about this budget with certainty, then it is a continuation of the Black-Blue-Orange budget in far-reaching areas. And I'm surprised that everyone is so excited that this budget has come about so quickly, because: At what price did it come about? It was the price that the SPÖ obviously did not oppose this continuation of the old course, did not want to oppose anything – in any case in very many questions very quickly yielded. [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is a misevaluation!]] – I still come to the alleged misconceptions. There are a few points on which this can be made quite specific. What you're forgetting is that the last government has been very clearly chosen. It is because the people had quite enough of this policy, because they wanted a completely different policy in many areas: They no longer wanted policies that do not care about climate change, they did not want policies where children and young people are not promoted in schools under optimal conditions and where they are not opened up in the longer term, where the number of unemployed young people is increasing. They also no longer wanted a policy where students in some cases had to study and pay tuition fees. Nor did people want any more policy where the researchers do not have the appropriate framework conditions, which they need to be satisfied with the way they can research and, secondly, can also work productively for the Austrian economy. And they didn't want any more politics, where a disastrous foreign law prevents the researchers from sharing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So, from my point of view, there is little reason for enthusiasm, and I find it – in order to say it carefully – inappropriate to be euphoric in a time of economic activity, where there is more money, that the most necessary basic conditions – really the most necessary basic conditions – are now laid down in this budget. For example – and I can only be surprised at this, Minister Hahn, how you can rejoice, so really are very satisfied – that universities are finally being provided with the necessary resources for the renovation of the buildings. - I mean, that's absurd: The universities are breaking our fingers, and you are glad and grateful that what the rectors' conference already said in 2005 is finally taking place in 2007 and 2008, namely that a little money is available for the renovation. So, you're really easy to please! This budget lacks every vision, at least there is no turning point, and not at all in education policy – a turn that the SPÖ has promised. This whole debate is rather a bit of resignation, according to the motto: Luckily, we're going a little further, and fortunately, we're getting money that doesn't break the university's hands, and, fortunately, there's also the increase in study grants. – Yes, ‘bravo’: By 12 percent – where 17 percent would be the approximation to inflation!Unknown term type: "%s".? I mean, you don't notice anything? – Students pay tuition fees, get less and less when they need a scholarship, and you say: Well, bravo! That's what I'm saying: Well, bravo! I'm no longer surprised that the students feel less and less about your policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They rejoice high that over the next two years there will be supposedly 140, 150 or 160 million additional for research. – It’s good if there’s money in addition, it’s only completely unclear how much it really is now, because every day the numbers change – they looked different a week ago than yesterday, and were different again yesterday than today – and you also forget that you get less out of the National Foundation – but gifted! - We're used to this fog throw. Should be! There's more money for research, and that's good. But it is far, far, far from what was promised and thought about – from the total school more than 1,000 researchers, up to 100,000 more places of study, until: no tuition fees. - That's not all! So I can only say: The vision of education policy – apart from everything else – has come to you very quickly, especially the SPÖ!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e5649	The next speaker is Mr Vilimsky. Also 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e5670	Mr President. My – remained – ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council! Our Federal Chancellor made Furore in his early years when he kissed Russian earth. [[Call the SPÖ:So what?]] - That's all right. He is at the head of social democracy today. But if I look at his policy, I have a little the impression that he kissed today the seal ring of the ÖVP Finance Minister. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The ÖVP Finance Minister has gone out. A newspaper has reported that it is referred to internally in the series of the ÖVP “Pater Willi”. Because Alfred Gusenbauer plays the role of the “ministrant” of “pater Willi” here politically, I thought there was a small gift for our Federal Chancellor, the political “ministrants” of “pater Willi”, and I will hand it over to him here and today. [[The speaker places a bell on the square of the Federal Chancellor on the government bank.]] A ministrant needs a armor, a tool – that's the bell. This is the right tool for a political ministrant! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call at the ÖVP: But a ministrant has a different bell! They haven't been to church for a long time...!]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you are trying to analyze a budget, you have to look at which sectors in the population are taking profit from it. – Let’s start with the whole boys, the children who certainly don’t profit from it! Although we have been hearing from you for years now, we need more money for our children, we need a childcare offensive: There's nothing in the budget! – Perhaps it is still possible to get the money out of the generous discounts that the Minister of Defence, who is not present now, will still get out of the Eurofighter buy, in this area. The next area is the school – from which there is no real profit for the students. But there was a shimmer of hope, because our Federal Chancellor said: Yes, I'm going to make a personal contribution! So it may have been a good thing for one parent or another, for one parent or another, that here the remedial costs go against zero. – So: But nothing has become out of it either! I do not know to this day what the Federal Chancellor wanted to teach. Perhaps it was relativity theory to show that election promises are relative: that before the election they have a different meaning for the SPÖ than after the election. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then there is the area of students. . We'll get rid of the tuition fees when we get to the government!, the SPÖ has toned. I'll tell you one thing: The only thing that has fallen is not the tuition fees, but the SPÖ that has fallen into this important question! [[Abg. Parnigoni: But, Mr Vilimsky!]] Next item: discharge of the middle class. I got something out of that – the electronic archive is a little tricky! –: Last August, our Federal Chancellor promised the SPÖ to cancel the middle class and the lower incomes immediately when he comes to the government, and will give him 500 €. And the Secretary of State has underlined this – please let these words, which are documented in the Austrian Press Agency, be slowly broken down on the tongue: “The SPÖ” – says Mr. Matznetter – “never has it in its history” – never! – “We made promises that it did not comply with. In addition, the financing of the SPÖ selection proposals’ is already covered. Well, that's great! I wonder, Where are these traces in the budget? – With a magnifying glass you will not find it, but perhaps there are still some unwritten pages where this 500 € discharge can be found, because with the increase of the mineral oil tax by 3 to 5 cents this discharge will certainly not be caused. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, something right has been held in the SPÖ's clause – I can quote: “From 2004 to 2005, the profits of the 20 companies in the ATX had increased by 53 percent to 8.3 billion euros.” So: This means that the continuation of this policy, which is a policy for the rich and the super-rich, is now being continued under social-democratic responsibility. But there is already a group that has benefited, and it is massive, and it is behind me: in a bloated government, where we have created artificially many ministerial chairs and State Secretary's armchairs, where it is not even possible in the TV transmission, with a 16:9 format, with a wide angle, this whole series here, as we had yesterday and the budget has been fattened up, to also tell our seers. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] I come to the end slowly: Your budget, gentlemen of the SPÖ and ÖVP, is a bad one, is a non-social one and is an unimaginable one! And the SPÖ is in real danger of entering the federal structure of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What used to be the section...
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e5767	Your speaking time is over. The next speaker is Mrs Haubner. Also 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e5791	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government! High house! Mr Finanzminister, I noticed two things yesterday in your budget speech: They have spoken a lot about the future – which is basically positive – of the fact that we need to invest in the future, that we need to budget forward-looking. And the second thing I noticed was that you said yesterday in the "ZiB 2": Where we can save, we save. First, ladies and gentlemen, to the future: If we fly over the budget, it is obvious that projects undertaken by this government will really be postponed to the future, or that they will only be possible with funding from the countries. I am thinking here in particular of the minimum necessary assurance, I am thinking that the care actually was not much to hear in your budget speech, I am thinking of the creation of new childcare places; these are all promises for the future, and they will be – so realistically we need to be – only if the countries and communities co-finance properly. The second topic of the future, education: It is positive if education has an important role to play when the educational budget is raised if, as you have said, you, Mrs Minister, support measures are increased, student aid is increased. I can agree. But I lack clarity in this budget: How is it with the 1,500 teachers you need due to the reduction in the school's maximum numbers, where are the budgets? – We looked at the budget and saw that only 150 teachers are budgeted. Does the rest have to cover the countries, or do you choose a small trick here by saying that the foreign language groups in the Gymnasia are now being enlarged and a compensation is created? The third area of the future: Family and youth. I am very much in favour of a lot of investment for the families, and I am glad that there is consensus in this government to finance these family benefits from the FLAF, which has always been said by the SPÖ that it has been cleared under our government participation. [[Abg. Parnigoni: What's true!]] What I notice about the youth budget: The youth budget is being increased – but actually only increases in favour of only two organizations, and here again it has been divided into great coalitional harmony: Rot und Schwarz, Jugendherbergsverband und Jugendherbergwerk. – And where does the free promotion of youth remain? On the point of “saving where we can save. ” – I ask you, ladies and gentlemen in the government: Why don't you first use the savings potential in the health system of €3 billion, as the experts claim? Everyone knows, precisely from the example of the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse, that only 21 cents of each euro paid flow into actual health insurance and the rest into bureaucracy and administration. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lap.]] Why do you burden the citizens? Since you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, said yesterday in the ORF that it was only €2 each month that met: The pensioners will meet more because they do not have a service provider, they also have to take over the service provider's contribution. You have no longer budgeted the hardy funds for pensioners, which we do not seem to need. So “good ” times come to the pensioners! And those who need the car will also have more than €2 a month of burden; especially affected are the Viennans, where the red city government has also strongly followed. Ladies and gentlemen, I could mention several examples of this, but we will still have the opportunity to discuss it here. However, I would like to say one thing here: Mr Finanzminister, you said that we should share with you confidence and optimism in the future. I do not share this confidence in this government because this government has presented us with a mogel pack, with many promises, especially as regards tax relief. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign]] Only: We citizens must first develop this tax relief by being taxed, and then perhaps in 2010 such relief will come. And what you can think of promises, we know that from the example of our Federal Chancellor
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e5840	Ladies and gentlemen, your speaking time has expired. [[In the case of BZÖ for the Abg, leaving the speaker's desk. Ursula Haubner.]] Mrs Csörgits is next spoken. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e5870	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! I think, Mr Secretary General of the FPÖ, it would be good for you to visit the worship in the church from time to time, because then you would know that bells that use ministrants and minors look different from this bell here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is a bell for the Presidency, and this can also be used well by our Federal Chancellor in the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much! [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] Now to the budget, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. – The political will to combat unemployment and measures against poverty is evident, quite clearly in this budget. Investments in the field of research, development and education, but also greater resources for social security, and in particular, what I am particularly pleased with, are more money for women's policy, which is a key feature of this budget. A particular focus is placed on labour market policy, and I think that is also urgently necessary. Over the next two years, ladies and gentlemen, €1.79 billion will be available for active and active labour market policies. What I am particularly pleased with in this context is the fact that over 50 percent of these funds in labour market policy are being made available to women in order to combat women's unemployment in particular. That's very important! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What is also very important is the fact that the principle of gender mainstreaming will be incorporated into the AMS. This means that we can put in place specific measures for re-entry and, in addition, very specific skills measures for women. This is also so important because the government has understood that women's employment rate should be increased in this country, not somehow, but through qualitative jobs and, above all, through such jobs, the full-time jobs. As I am particularly concerned with the management of the labour market and with measures that are concerned with the field of work, I would also like to draw attention to a situation that is very important to me in the case of ongoing projects: I think it will be urgently necessary to check again and again with the Blum funding whether the measures put in place there are really useful, whether there can really be young people in the work process in the long term. What is equally important to me is the fact that it is also necessary to ensure that girls get more into non-typical professions. In this context – as I am currently on the subject of apprenticeship training – I have a question to Mr Vice-Chancellor. In its government agreement on the guarantee of training, the Federal Government has reached the age of 18. ==References====External links== At the first review, I found that I was missing the budgetary approach. I would like to ask where financial security can be found for these very, very important projects for young people. I now come to the second capital, to social security: I can see that, after the last seven years, more resources will be made available in this area to make social security more tangible and more effective for people. This begins with the increase of the minimum pension, leads to measures to extend the so-called hackler rule until 2010, and goes to measures set out in relation to the better assessment of child care periods. Measures are also very important for disabled people. Dear ladies and gentlemen! There are good budgetary approaches in both areas that fall into my area of responsibility. There is also much more money for research, development and education, and this also creates jobs. This means that this budget will also contribute to making the situation in Austria fairer for people, that social security will again become more measurable and tangible,that women have more opportunities in equality. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign]] It bears very clear social democratic traces, and that is a good thing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e5951	The next speaker is Mr Jakob Auer. Also 5 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e5976	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! The draft budget for the coming years at a glance – presented by Federal Minister Molterer in a precise way and professionally yesterday with clear priorities – is: It outlines the objectives of the common government policy in the coming years. If it is true that the budget is the policy cast in figures, then there is a very balanced, serious and forward-looking policy here. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This excellent two-budget with a social focus, focused on research and education, with a special focus on climate protection, equipped with a strong fund separately, a budget where rural areas are given the necessary attention, with the security of the “Green Pact”, has been mastered in a very short time, in cooperation with all the trade ministers. Mr. Molterer and Mr. State Secretary Matznetter, we can only congratulate: It's a perfect collaboration! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, these two budgets are also possible because the economy and the economy are excellent because we have excellent economic data in Austria. This has already been established in recent years. You should hold on to that, and no one can shake it. By the way: Yesterday, as a long-term parliamentarian, I was a day of double joy: for the first time, we have a perfect budget, presented by the Federal Minister for Finance, and for the second reason, because it was officially announced that the Voest can take care of Böhler-Uddeholm, buy this company and create a large global player here in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know why? – If you are Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Raiffeisen Landesbank Oberösterreich, and have provided in 2003 that: that voest is a stable core shareholder, then you're looking forward to such a day! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] As Mr Cap said at the beginning of his speech, he would still be in opposition, what would he have said then, I may bring him to hear the following: I'll help him a little bit and tell him what he said when he was still in the opposition. “Does the Voest burn?” – That was 2003. Cap also said: “SPÖ and Voest call Saints Barbara for help against privatisation.” – Thank God she didn’t give the blessing, otherwise the Voest wouldn’t be so good today. That was also clarified once again! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Further: “Voost privatisation – the chaos is perfect!” – And so on, and so on. Thank God – which Voest General Director Eder presented yesterday in a precise way – is a complete privatisation with a stable core shareholder outside of political influence. We welcome the employee participations in this company! This has been a great opportunity, and the employees have also deserved it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, I cannot ignore the Upper Austrian colleagues in the SPÖ, Mr Haider, even in my criticism. “Privatisation would be adventurous, desaströs and the extermination of popular wealth,” says Haider. And who's been right since yesterday, ladies and gentlemen? – So do not call Saint Barbara for help, but ask the EIA, and you are better off, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] It is also necessary to clarify: One bank speculates somewhere, the other bank secures sustainable jobs and has a stable core shareholder. It is already a special pleasure if one can see today that the economy is working, the number of jobs is increasing accordingly, the supply is better when the finances are in order and if there are positive prospects for the future. Ladies and gentlemen, the following is also mentioned: I would like to express my thanks, Minister Molterer, for pointing out that the countries and municipalities benefit greatly from the improved economy, from the higher tax revenue. That's gratifying! Nevertheless, I am already saying in the direction of 2008 or in the direction of financial compensation: It will also be necessary to think here that one does not simply increase the head rate, but that one reduces the scarcity between the rich and financially weak communities, so that even those people in the countryside who have to operate and live under difficult conditions have a positive future outlook. – Here we agree with joy!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e6089	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Brigid Weinzinger. Also 5 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e6113	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! We can say anything about the budget, and the Minister of Finance did so yesterday. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Something positive!]] The Minister of Finance has claimed that the budget would be ‘generation-friendly’. – An unproven fact, which the first look into the budget already disproves. He claimed that it would be “future fit. ” – Maybe you should talk to some communication experts. Bad products don't get better either by dirty slogans. But he has not even claimed that this budget could somehow contribute to gender equality. The word “severe justice ” was not found at all. - Okay, that might be a little bit too one-sided: Righteousness is the same with the sexes, but the word “woman ” has not even occurred. There was once the word “woman employment rate, ” that was it. – Hello, Minister of Finance! Women on the government bench, is there someone? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] 52% of the population are female. Did you notice that we have blatant misunderstandings in the labour market, where women earn less, have less good chances, have fewer top positions? Is that all your business? That's not your theme! Okay, that's what it's at least revealed: For you, women's policy in the budget is no more a subject than the government programme. [[Abg. May. Worm: 35 percent more in the budget for women!]] If anyone needs proof, let's take a look at it! – In this draft budget, as in the past, there is also a chapter for each ministry, that is, “sex-specific aspects”. [[Abg. May. Worm: 35 percent more in the budget for women!]] . I should like to add, Mrs Wurm, that I still appreciate it quite quietly. So there is a chapter, that is, “sex-specific aspects. ” – If we say it stays in the budget everything in the black and blue-orange course, I had not meant it so literally so far. The fact that one finds in part the same textual passages in this budget that were in place in the past budgets is really a disregard for parliamentary understanding – I would like to say. Maybe a few highlights taken out! – There are ministers of the SPÖ who are supposed to be called “advanced”. Sozialminister Buchinger now irons shirts – or what does he do if he doesn't get his hair cut right now? So Social Minister Buchinger, who is said to be a modern, emancipated man, shows us in his department, which is gender-specific aspects in the social budget – who advises? – the disability billions from 2001! Mr. Minister, what do you want to tell us? . As a woman, should I feel addressed when you tell me that there is already a disability billion from 2001 in the social field? And that has some relevance for the years 2007 and 2008? Or we take the Federal Chancellery ourselves! – It should be thought that at least there, gender equality should be attributed, because there is the Minister of Women and there the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, who supposedly supports women’s affairs. But what does the Federal Chancellery tell us about sexual justice? – An operational kindergarten! It's nice if there's a farm kindergarten, that's what everyone should have, unbehaviestable, but this should be used in the same way by fathers and mothers, and not only by women. What about the gender aspects for those women who don't have children in the old age right now? Look at this. Your women's promotion? – Mr Bundeskanzler, that really can't be it! Then it will be particularly bizarre, of course traditional, there are really the same sentences that we know from the past, because when we look at the Ministry of the Interior, we can find out: 51 percent of the population are female – at least this has spoken about, even if the number is not quite correct – and therefore the use of the police mainly serves women in Austria! And then one is still famous for providing more money for the fight against violence, in reality for the protection or support of victims of violence. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is good and right that the budget of the intervention agencies has been increased, but it is not a promotion of women! The elimination of the consequences or the reduction of the effects of male violence on women and children cannot explain to me that you are promoting as women. [[Abg. May. Worm: Unfortunately, it hits 90 percent of women!]] That is necessary and right, but it is not a promotion of women, Mrs Deputies. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] The women's budget itself is increasing to 8 million, but if you look more closely, you can see that the expenditure for the ministry is increased in particular, but not the support for the private institutions. That means we can use advertising campaigns – hopefully awareness campaigns! – But we must not expect that there will be more projects for meaningful projects in women’s work at girls’ counsellors in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e6219	The next item is Mr Lutz Weinzinger. Also 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e6243	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen here in plenary! Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance, I congratulate you – not on the budget, but on your fan club! You have a really remarkable fan club, in the form of the ladies in your ÖVP club. [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: It's getting more and more!]] When I found out yesterday on the basis of your budget speech that you made a passage from which you can read out that you really want to say goodbye, I have been massively criticized by your ladies' fan club. You said: Every year, each Austrian and Austrian pays €3 050 in interest and debt relief. And then you said, That's not reasonable! – That's how it is, at least, in the manuscript. In fact, you said: It's unbearable! Such a mortgage would not exist with me as Minister of Finance. I ask you: How is it supposed to be that this mortgage would not exist with you as a finance minister? – Do we no longer pay interest and repayments? Or do we immediately repay our debts? Where? That actually means: If you look at this double budget and look at the further development by 2010, you can say: It is quite clear and clear that we will only marginally get rid of our debts, that we will therefore continue to pay by €3 000 per Austrian and Austrians for interest and debt eradication in the next years. But such a mortgage will not exist with you as Minister of Finance, you said yesterday! – There will be them, Minister of Finance! You will, of course, be praised by your fan club with this budget. That's quite clear! By the government party ÖVP – no na net! From the SPÖ – well, not so enthusiastic, but after all, solidarity prevails, after all, the SPÖ is together with you in the government. I do not need to join this criticism now, because You have already heard enough of this criticism, but I would rather make you a proposal to offer a suggestion – a suggestion that is very important, as I and my group seem to be. What do we do infrastructure in Austria in all areas: Road, rail, education, who are we doing that for? – For our offspring, for our children! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And what do we have less and less? - Children! In this direction, you just have to think about it. There is a model that you certainly know: the family division. This could be done by means of income tax, by means of wage tax, in fact to encourage families. What does family division mean? – Take, as an example, the traditional family, which thank God is still there: Father, mother and three children, that's five! The income is counted together and then divided by five. This is how the tax progression is started. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: There you can move as a family, there you can afford children!]] What do you think about how you can relieve and promote families through the tax and what opportunities arise with all other measures of family-enhancing nature! This would mean that we could finally afford ourselves families with children again in this Republic of Austria. That must be our goal!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e6308	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Darmann. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e6329	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! And since yesterday: Dear High House! One issue I would like to address at the outset in the course of my speech is the increase in university scholarships announced and announced this week. This announced average increase of 12 per cent would be quite welcome for me as the BZÖ's scientific spokesperson – not a question, Federal Minister Hahn – but to return to Mr Cap, who has said today that there will be no criticism or that it will be difficult to find, unfortunately, because I very much have to criticise that it will only remain a conjunctive with regard to this announced increase in higher education scholarships, because, unfortunately, in the Government's document on the 2007 budget accompanying law, these funding measures remain unchanged. [[Abg. Strache: That was just cynical by Dr. Cap!]] Thus, an increase is an announcement by no figures. Perhaps you can explain to us, Mr Minister, after you are referred to as the next speaker, the means by which this increase in university scholarships is to be financed. In this context, I was also very surprised that this supposed increase was to be a first step in 2007 and that it was not until 2008 that a review of social security would follow. I believe that this review of social security should be preferred. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Now to the judicial budget: When the judicial body was still in charge of BZÖ, in 2000, we started a judicial budget of 800 million this year alone and increased this amount to € 989 million by 2006. It was a plus of 20 percent. It's right: There is also a noticeable, although only small, increase in the budget in the judicial area. I have also noted this increase positively, especially because the Minister of Finance has justified this with additional expenditure on aid for victims, and that is to be welcomed. However, it must be added that decisions have been taken on these important measures in the field of victim aid during the last government. And that was good. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] However, the statement made yesterday by the Deputy Chancellor and the Minister of Finance is very correct when he said: It was a fruitful seed that was sown at that time! – I thank you for this positive recognition. However, a commitment to other necessary investments in the field of justice was unfortunately not recognizable in this budget speech and cannot be found even after detailed consideration of the budget figures. On the contrary: The detention centre should be saved again. That is why I ask the Federal Minister – although unfortunately she is not here today – where the funds for the establishment of further detention facilities are in Austria, especially in the Eastern Austrian region? I am sure the Minister of Justice and all of you are also aware that we have a 15 percent reserve of detentions in Austrian detention centres. However, we have a current occupation of more than 9 100 prisoners in the institutions. However, these institutions are designed only for 8 650 persons. Thus, instead of a required reserve, we have an overhang of nearly 1,500 prisoners. And there is already to say that, even if the Vienna-Neurechtsanstalt is now being implemented and this may lead to a reduction of up to 500 seats, there is still an overhang of 1,000 prisoners. So, too, this debt relief programme by the Minister of Justice, with which she actually wants to go a way in the opposite direction, is not a suitable means. We from the BZÖ really do not give up the hope that the Minister of Justice, in the interests of the security needs of the Austrian population, will once again consider its programme and will also go away from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e6378	Mrs Bures has spoken from the government bank. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e6399	Mr President. High house! With a budget, it becomes clear in what direction policy will turn in the next few years. It is a good direction, because I also have a good news, which means that it has succeeded to increase the women's budget by 35 percent. We have promised an independent women's ministry, and there is also a good news: There is again an independent women's ministry. In addition, there is a federal government with a female share, as we have never had it before. I think this is a good start to make a policy that Women's concerns and problems in Austria are again taking seriously, and it is a signal that women's policy has been refocused. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of course, we must set priorities for every budget, and I have done my utmost in this women's budget to put all measures to combat violence in the family, all measures to combat violence against women and children. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can promise with this women's budget that we will expand the intervention agencies against violence in the family in which victims of violence are cared for, that I will, together with the Minister of the Interior, ensure that the intervention agencies against violence in the family will receive 60 percent more money from this year onward. [[In the case of the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP, as well as the Agg. May. Brigid Weinzinger.]] I think this is a sensible women's policy investment. I also think it is money that is well invested, because on the one hand we can help women and children threatened by violence and, on the other hand, we support a society in which peaceful living is worth something. And it is therefore well-invested money because we invest in prevention to really break the spiral of violence. That must be our common goal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Women's policies are, of course, found in all the departments of this new Federal Government. We are talking about improving the life situation of women, and we have actually begun to do so: Since February we have raised the minimum pension to € 726. Over 150,000 women benefit from this increase across the poverty line. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The next step will be to negotiate the minimum wage. Negotiations are being held for a general collective agreement: €1,000 Minimum wage – every time a contribution is made to the fact that the income shears between men and women do not disperse, but rather that we bring them together a good piece more, and that we ensure a good deal more social fairness. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We will strengthen women in employment and employment as regards the income situation, and with women's promotion plans we will also increase the career opportunities of women, because it is important for us that women have an employment with an income from which they can also live, because this is the basic requirement for women to have a self-determined and independent life. It has already happened in the debate today: A great success is that it has succeeded in reaching an agreement on the flexibility of child benefit. This will be a massive improvement. An improvement, because this will make it possible for families to make more choices and allow women who return to work in the past to not lose their child's money as in the past. If they return to the profession earlier, they also receive more child money. This is a very important measure for flexibilising child benefit, because it means a very concrete improvement and more money for women and families. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] One sentence, Mr President, concerning the fathers: With the flexibility of child care, we will also give fathers the opportunity to spend a few months in childcare. We need babysitting facilities. The Federal Chancellor pointed out that this is very important to us. More child care services There is a need for greater women's employment rate, fewer women's poverty and more children's poverty – a common goal. Ladies and gentlemen! [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign the other day.]] I am sure we will achieve a good deal more equal opportunities between men and women through these measures. – I look forward to working together.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e6526	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e6547	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear listeners! “You can’t look into the future, but you can lay the reason for something future – because you can build the future.” – These words Saint-Exupérys can certainly be seen as the motto of our budget this year and next year: an active form of the future. In this sense, the statement made yesterday by our Minister of Finance, the budget speech was a real declaration of the future for our society – and what does more future mean than science and research? Science and research: The teaching, the attention to science and research in a society is particularly important. It was therefore important for us to set sustainable priorities in the field of education, science and research for the next two years – and I say so very consciously – and thus have continued the way so far. The science and research budget in my ministry alone increases by € 420.8 million, bringing an increase of 13.7 percent to €3.5 billion in 2007 and from 14.9 percent to more than €3.5 billion in 2008, which is the biggest increase since 1991. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Contrary to the critical remarks I have been able to hear today, in the last two days, I have found that the Council of Science, the Association of Professors, today also praised the rectors' conference of this budget and the trend expressed in this budget. I would say that these are organizations that are unwarranted because, when it appears to them, they do not keep their criticism behind the mountain either. Thus, they are highly suspicious contemporaries, and if they welcome this development, then this statement counts more than ever. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The university billion is reality, even if you don't want to see it, or if you've already heard it in a speech contribution: Well, that's just a few "netsch" in Vienna. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: Where?]] More than €500 million in the next three years for the universities in the operating budget, that is, in total – in the next three years! – this is a 10-percent increase, and this also leads to the satisfaction of the rector conference. [[Abg. Sburny: In three years!]] In this way – I believe Mrs Sburny, you have said it – these 1,000 postdocs, which we have spoken about in the Government Declaration, can be guaranteed. This year, which is, so to speak, a year of the hull, we are already starting with 150 to 180 of them. And you can be sure that we will implement it accordingly. We will also put more than half a billion € into the further renovation – into the structural, infrastructural improvement of the universities – and can thus guarantee the quality of our universities at an evenly good level in this regard. I am saying this because Mr. Klubobmann Van der Bellen mentioned Harvard again today – that's okay. He did not say how high the tuition fees are, the contributions to be paid. He did not mention that there are 3,000 universities in the United States, which are below the perceptive threshold, and he leads – but I have pursued this with great interest – the country's elite universities. These are desirable goals, but one should also know what one is talking about. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] A word on the promotion of studies: This is raised. Mr Darmann, you do not need to worry, we will discuss this adequately in committee. The money will be there. This year, due to the scarcity of the time system, it was only possible to increase linearly. Social security, expansion, further development – this requires longer discussions, and that is why we will bring this to the stage next year. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] Obviously, I don't have much time to talk about research anymore. [[Cheerfulness with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I can only tell you one thing: Research is in the best hands in this government and there is sufficient budget. And I'll tell you from this point of view: We will guarantee that the independence of the research institutions that have to decide on projects will continue to be ensured in the future to the extent that it has been the case in the past. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e6637	The next item is the report by Mr Bauer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e6658	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Of course, Mr Auer, we are all pleased that the stainless steel plants of Böhler are returning to the voestalpine lap, but in the context of total depoliticization, as you have done, I would consider it excessive. And above all, I believe... – Yes! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Above all, however, I believe that it is important that it has happened, Mr Auer. That's the most important thing! After the years of economic stagnation from 2001 to 2005, I would like to say, with growth rates between 1 and 2 per cent, that it is important to use this time to make changes for the economy, in the light of the upturn in 2006 and the expected good growth rates in the following years. It is also good, ladies and gentlemen, that the debt ratio will be below 60 percent by 2008 because it is simply a good condition for a more planned future. As for the repeated remarks on debt, I would like to say once again that there have always been allegations and will come, although they are unfounded: 1980, during the sole government Kreisky, it was €27 billion, which is 35 percent government debt. In 1990, at the time of the great coalition, it was already 56 percent, until 2005 it was 63 percent. And they have been increased even further. It is therefore remarkable that this debt ratio will now turn around by 2008 and will be below 60 percent. – I think that is important and a good condition. The 2007 budget will surely achieve the objective because it is based on the December forecast values, which are known to be well below the March forecast values. That is why the budget still has reserves. What I would like to say specifically on the question of Chapter 63, Economics, is: It is important that we agree that infrastructure expenditure is important conditions for site security and location quality in Austria and that educational expenditure is an important raw material for the future in order to maintain this competitiveness in the long term. Finally, the increase in research expenditure is also important because we need to see more technology intensity for our product segment, when compared with that of the new neighbouring countries, so that we can continue to ensure competitiveness from 2012 onwards. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, there is a budget here which is a good basis for a long-term positive development if we set the course correctly. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] If we include the social issue, it is also one where I am convinced that Austrians can not only look more wealthy, but ultimately happier and with more quality of life into the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e6719	The next speaker is Mrs Rauch-Kallat. Also 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e6740	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! Unfortunately, the Minister for Women has already gone out. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: No, she's here anyway!]] I was already very trying to praise them for having succeeded in getting more money for the women's budget. I would, however, like to thank, above all, the responsible Minister for Finance and Vice-Presidents, because there are always two of them: one who demands it and one who exists. Therefore, a warm thank you for increasing the women's budget. It is important and necessary. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, Mrs Federal Minister, I believe that you have still not understood this with the independent women's ministry. I would really recommend a letter... – No, that there has always been a women's ministry, since 1983, since the Secretary of State, Donnal, was appointed Minister, or it was a little later. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Well, well!]] Since then, there has been a women's ministry, and it has each been located in another ministry. It is now located in the Federal Chancellery. If you do not believe it, Mrs Bures, please read the letter from the Federal Chancellery of March of this year on the subject of Federal Ministerial Law. It's literally inside. An own women's ministry was not created. I recommend you read this letter, perhaps you will finally understand. We really shouldn't work with Emperor's new clothes. [[Abg. Gaál: Envy is a bad counselor!]] However, I would like to speak today about the budget. Firstly, it is good and important that there is more money for women's work, more money, especially for the intervention agencies against violence. Here we have – I'm not saying: Thank God – an increase in violence, thanks to an increase in the public, and thus also a stronger use of intervention agencies. They have invested part of the increased budget in the promotions. This is also important, but it is important above all: You have the majority of the expenditure, and there we will observe very closely what happens to this money, because it is important that you continue those initiatives that we have begun in recent years, especially initiatives against traditional violence, but above all initiatives to promote women, such as mentoring initiatives, cross-mechanism in the Federal Service. Very little has happened here in the last few weeks, and we hope that you will not let these initiatives fall asleep. A very, very important area of women's promotion is also to be found in another ministry, namely in the Ministry of the Federal Minister Kdolsky in the family sector. Here I am grateful to the fact that more than € 1 billion is available to provide pension subsidies for women with care responsibilities, an initiative that we have set up in the last Federal Government and which was very important to ensure the protection of women of old age as a measure against poverty in old age. 1 billion € per year goes to the retirement of women with care obligations, and I would like to thank you very much for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am also very pleased that, in the field of health budget, successful initiatives in recent years can continue. The 2004 health reform is emerging as a real racer. In the meantime, the national health platforms are working. And it is very important that Mrs. Federal Minister Kdolsky will continue all initiatives in the field of health promotion, health passports. This is important for the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e6818	The next speaker is Mr Brosz. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e6840	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! I will come back to education policy. Mrs Schmied, I agree with you, and I also note that the radical saving course, which has been driven under Minister Gehrer, is being weakened. Agreed! There are certain additional resources inside. These are individual measures that can be financed. We can assume that in compulsory schools, in primary schools and in primary schools, the number of students will actually fall to a certain degree. By the way, you yourself have said that this will be commuting at 28. That's something different than 25, but it's at least a little bit. What I don't understand from you is that you're trying to blow this up, like this is the giant education reform. For a simple reason, I also think this is not particularly good strategicly: You know your predecessor, Minister Gehrer. She has declared for years: Everything's not right! Everything wonderfully financed! The consequence was budgetary negotiations, from which she returned each time with a battle budget and had to implement the savings course. I would really think it better to say that in the areas we have achieved something and in the other areas we need much more. You don't do that! They try to explain the people with half-truths: Everything's wonderful! You said: 1 500 teachers more next year; you still say that. They say 300 in the AHS sub-level. Correct? - 300. In the establishment plan, which is in the budget documents here, are 150 inside, not 300. Only half of what you've announced is actually in the budget. Why can You're not just saying what's going on? You know as well as I do, that with 150 teachers, you can't reduce the number of school students to 25 more in the AHS sub-level. Let us talk about all that the SPÖ, Mr Niederwieser, has promised in recent years and what is not inside. It is quite clear that you are in the government agreement – even if You have just held the discussion intensively with colleague Bures: 25 students in all classes. – There is no single euro for the AHS upper level. All high-level students have the same conditions as now. There is no longer any euro in all higher education schools. The trade academies, the HTLs, the HLAs have as many teachers in the establishment plan as last year, and the class sizes remain, colleague Niederwieser! Nothing changes. There's a part that's positive. They said that 193,000 students would be better off next year. Correct! And how many students are there in Austria? – 1.2 million in about, i.e. 10 percent, 15 percent of students have better. The reverse is: For 85 percent of students, it will remain as it is next year. And that after eleven years of gehre. So, selling this to us as the big throw in education policy is already a little far. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I have to say that Mr Molterer was quite remarkable in his budget speech because he tried to put honestly on the table how many more resources are available in the school sector, the €50 million you mentioned. Perhaps you could have told Mr Broukal that – it would not be your job, but perhaps German chancellor Gusenbauer will be able to calculate a percentage of his follow-up hours with colleague Broukal. €50 million more at a total of €6 billion, and Broukal goes out and claims: 10 percent more budget. - Where are we? That would be the tenfold of what is really inside. There seems to be confusion in size. When one comes to another point, Mr Niederwieser: reform pedagogy in Austria, alternative schools. In recent years, both of us have repeatedly made joint requests for funding, so that the parents of 4,000 pupils do not at last have to pay hundreds of euros per month for schools. You said something was coming. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] Do you know what the budget says? – From 237 000 € in the alternative schools to 84 000 €. This is a third of the budget of last year! 4000 alternative students and their families will pay as much as they have in recent years. You have achieved small things, but if you are just as 'lights' here as Mr Grasser has in recent years, that certainly has not deserved education policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e6910	The next speaker is Mr Kickl. Also 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e6933	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen – on the growing government bank! High house! [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: The bank has not grown bigger!]] If you look at the budget, ladies and gentlemen, there are two groups in the same assessment. For one thing – they are home there – this is a very, very great thing, quite something great. [[in the direction of ÖVP pointing]] I understand that you are so praising, because basically you didn't really have to work hard for what you presented. You don't have to change anything at all about your course you've taken up so far, you're just going on the way you've done it so far. The partner has become another, but basically you continue what you have done in recent years and decades. I'm just telling you a few words about this: You burden, you owe, you cash, and where you distribute, there you divide from bottom to top, instead of finally making it reverse. And somewhere on the horizon, there's the carrot of a tax reform – we can't hear that anymore – and the zero deficit. You know, there's certainly great satisfaction. There is certainly great satisfaction with the SPÖ members on the government bank – that is not a question at all – because they have, with this budget decision and with government-building, in fact done something like an assistance in the field of non-social policy. This only shows that people have not fooled themselves, who believe, and they are rightly of this opinion that, basically, all the principles have been abandoned by SPÖ, just to find these places behind me. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For the others, ladies and gentlemen, and I am not just talking about the members of the SPÖ Club – if you looked around a little bit yesterday, you almost had the impression that one thing or another still has something like a bad conscience for everything he has to carry with it in lazy magic – this budget is in fact the greatest disappointment. You know, you have to think about the people who have commissioned you to become politically active. These are the people who have put a great hope in a change of course in this country. You have also been elected to do so. These people have disappointed you with this budget. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There should have been a change to more justice and fairness – “Fairness” was, I believe, the word you’ve put on land. There's nothing more to be seen. People have simply been betrayed for their hope. In fact, as a stronger group, you have succeeded in degrading yourself to the junior partner, and if you look at the figures in the budget, where the ÖVP has a strong two-thirds majority, then all that we have heard today from socialist handwriting, from social policy, from nothing but sound and smoke. If Mr. Cap spoke of “tracks” today, the more appropriate expression would be “track elements”. That's what you might find somewhere else. There can be no mention of traces! That's why you don't have a Labour and Social Minister anymore, but you only have a Social Minister, and it's paradoxical that you're handing over the fight against unemployment as an entry ticket to this government to those who have produced this unemployment. That's interesting! That's very interesting. Perhaps this is the new socialist logic, but it has nothing to do with a necessary labour market offensive as this country needs. Otherwise, you would not come to the idea of bringing foreign skilled workers into the country and thus producing a displacement competition, instead of finally protecting the domestic workers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] I come to the conclusion: I just remember, ladies and gentlemen, the pensioners were the first victims. They were already a victim before this government was formed. Unfortunately, pensioners are not the last victim, and it is true that anyone who wants to be big must limit himself. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Time!]] On the other hand, they have tried to reverse it, but it does not mean that if you are limited, something big comes out as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e7011	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. Also 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e7048	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! . Well, if fewer Members are available, there is more often talk about it, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of budget: The tax revenue is, as it were, simply swirling because, in the past, especially in the period between 2000 and 2006, very good preparatory work has been done. We from the BZÖ have contributed our part to contributing to the co-responsibility. We have sowed well, and we now also expect this Federal Government to distribute the harvest justly! [[Congratulations with BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But what does the Federal Government do? – Instead of a tax reduction and a tax reform, to pass on that as we have shown, for example, with the amount of child dropover, with a negative tax from which families have benefited or also with corporate tax – a reduction of 9 percentage points, from 34 to 25 percent – and yet more revenue has come in. This is an example and we should work there. That's right. But what has now come out is the following: The population is being scrapped practically by new people, the countries and municipalities are asked to cash out, and this is already true in the following way: for example, the fees in a city like Vienna with parking fees rise by 50 percent and also in public transport by 12 percent. And the tax reform is being postponed. Mineral oil tax will be taxed on all commuters in Austria, and the gap between wages and corporate profits will continue to disperse. We have already expected that now that a lot of things come together, something will be returned, even for the self-employed, the many commuters in Austria. But that's not it now. The tax reform will be postponed to the end of the legislative period until 2010. Who knows if we're ever going to experience it with this federal government, which has always been with one another, because a marriage of love was not unthinkable? [[Abg. Oils: How is that with you?]] Nor do we save each other from certain accusations, even now in the budget debate. However, it is narrower in terms of unemployment income and minimum wage. We want a minimum guarantee at the same level as the compensation allowance of € 726, which we have still introduced when we had the responsibility, and we ask for a minimum wage of € 1,000 gross: 726 € Minimum guarantee, gross for net, 14 times a year, and on the other hand 1 000 € minimum wage, which is net 850 €, because 15 percent you can deduct. That is no difference, Mrs Colleague! People will think: Where is the social policy manuscript here? Where'd she stay? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Incredible! That's a pot!]] Where are the traces of social democrats in this area? Maybe at the hackler rule that you've been so shattering at that time? At the heavy-worker rule? I didn't hear anything! Everything's going on. The whole Murks Act, as Mrs. Csörgits has called it for the whole four years, is all being carried on because it is so good because it is so “class”. Of course! That's where you learned. Or the billing of child rearing times that we have introduced will also continue. I have to say one more word about ‘flexicurity’, Mr Vice-Chancellor. You said: Flexicurity means nothing more than taking people’s fear of change. Flexicurity is much more. Flexicurity means that people should be more flexible, but that can't be a one-way street. The companies should also be flexible, just like the workers that are required. However, the Federal Government should also be flexible and should do something for the commuters and not divide the mineral oil tax, because 1.9 million commuters are available in Austria and they are exhausted. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] I demand a 100% deductibility of travel costs, even in the form of a negative tax, because this really helps these commuters, and not with a scrapping action. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Time!]] That's how they're asked to check out. And with the Umweltman, Minister of the Environment Pröll, where you...
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e7135	Mr President, your speaking time has expired. - No, you don't have a final sentence. [[Abg. Dolinschek: The final sentence!]] [[In the case of BZÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. Dolinschek.]] Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e7173	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Let me try to return to the policy of matters after the excited speech of my predecessor and allow me to say a few words about the health budget and also about the situation in the health ministry. As you have already learned from the media of the last days, the minister herself has said that she has the feeling of driving a bulldozer through the construction sites that have left her predecessors in the various resorts. Do you believe that the construction sites she is setting up there will not be an easy task for which the Minister will be standing in the next few years? The challenges facing the health system in the next few years are large, and they are likely to be greater than the budgetary resources available for it. Leave You give me some examples of what will happen to us in the next few days: For example, there is the question of vaccination against the human papilloma virus, one of the causes of cervical cancer in women. A very expensive vaccination, but a vaccination that would save a lot of women sickness, suffering and death. To finance this vaccination from the resources of the health budget would probably bring an all too large hole into the budget. The social security scheme would not be possible either. We are already in the second construction site, which the Minister has taken over. In recent years, social security has been significantly burdened by a number of legal measures and the revenue has been far exceeded by expenditure. Mrs. Haubner, savings in the field of social security at 3 percent administrative costs, checked several times and made further savings there, so you went in the wrong direction. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me quote what the head of the American National Institute of Health said this year at the European Radiological Congress in Vienna on prevention: We doctors come to the patient today at twenty years too late. – It is this delay that causes the cost of treatment to explode. – And he says: The future lies in prevention. The revolution will not be quite easy, but it will definitely have to take place. This will not go beyond Austria either; the budgeted € 11 million under the chapter Prevention allows the minister only very small steps. It is a good goal to lift people's vaccination fatigue, to promote the acceptance of vaccinations and to prevent the spread of infectious diseases. But also on the basis of the media coverage of the last few weeks as far as comet drinks, smoking behaviour, nutrition and exercise of young people are concerned, it will have to be much more money, which will have to be taken into consideration in the next few years. What we need above all are legal regulations and proper funding steps so that prevention in the future in this country will really be of good importance. Another thing that the SPÖ has succeeded in long, tough negotiations in recent weeks was, as usual in the old government, a burden on patients. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's exactly what you're doing now!]] It was planned that the Austrians or social insurance companies should have been charged with the so-called Vigilance Center with €3 million. We have shown that this form of burden does not go with the SPÖ, and have turned us exactly where we have said that we believe that the money is also in the pharmaceutical industry. [[Abg. Scheibner: You raise the contributions!]] We have said that if this money is necessary for drug safety, what we really believe, then you can get the money there. This step has at least been achieved in the negotiations. Let me conclude by saying: All in all, this is a budget in which, although the Minister may be somewhat restricted, he can move quite properly. The SPÖ's task will be to see that the money comes where it belongs, namely to patients. We will also provide a helmet for the need if the construction sites they find are too large.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e7237	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e7261	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Investing in the future was a central issue in the speech of our Minister for Finance. What could better symbolize the future than our families and our children? And in this family future, the double budget is very much invested. With €60 million more in 2008, the step of flexibilising the childcare allowance can be taken at 15 and 18 months, respectively, up to 36 months. More € 27 million for 2008 Additional costs for the higher allowance for family aid, almost € 10 million for the increase of the limit for the income-dependent multiple child supplement to € 55 000 planned. What is also very important to me is the family advisory services. These institutions are now such crucial bodies, whose importance is also taken into account and promoted by a budget increase from the second half of 2007. I would also like to draw attention to the increase in the budget for the intervention agencies against violence in the family. There are around € 2 million more for the violent intervention agencies. Equally important is the family hard work. In particular for families in need, there is now a larger package from which more financial resources can be distributed. An important point for me is in this regard – and it is a pity that Mr. Federal Minister for Social Affairs Buchinger is not here on the government bank – the visiting accompaniment, or the visiting cafés. This is a professional offer for maintaining contact between children and separate living parents. This visit was set up in 2003 on a funding basis in the Social Ministry, but unfortunately remained in the Social Ministry and did not come to the Ministry of Family Affairs. Last year, €200 000 was available, with a budget of approximately €300 000 in 2007. I am in favour of legal protection in this department; legal protection is also called legal financing, but not from the family compensation fund, because the family compensation fund has already received too much of it. [[Abg. Oils: What tasks?]] Especially the visit is a very, very important point in this situation when parents separate. Summary: Much that is included in the family budget is a way to the future. I think that's a good budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e7295	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e7317	Mr President. Thank you, Madam Minister for Education! Mr. Minister of Science! Mrs. State Secretary! The constellation is exactly the same as at the time when you were sitting on the government bank for the first time. I also spoke to you at the time when education was present, science and, in part, infrastructure. In this budget, the constellation is in the same position: in science and in education far too little and in infrastructure too much. I would simply like to say this to you, because I would also like to refer to the comments made by Mr Kukacka or also by Mr Bauer. The Lord Mr Molterer, Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance, and these two former speakers have repeatedly stressed that infrastructure investments are improvements in economic and location quality. Now, unfortunately, the Minister is not here, but I should like to tell you, Mrs Kranzl, that there is a recent study by the European Union on behalf of the European Parliament: “The Impact of Transport European Networks on Cohesion and Employment”, i.e. the impact of investment on employment and work and economic integration. What is the result of this study? – That any investment in infrastructure must be weighed three or four times in order to determine whether it is employment-related and whether it is ever increasing growth. Only in underdeveloped or less developed economies is this the case. You can also read this at the Wifo. Austria is a developed country, you yourself call it number one, but in this developed country, we again do not give the billions to education and not to science, as the World Economic Forum in Davos, for example, repeatedly demands: Benchmarking, ranking. Where are we to invest? There it is said that there is a lack of education and science in Austria. And where is investment? – In the infrastructure where we do not need it as necessary anymore. More is planned in the road than in the rail. My colleague Rossmann has already made it very clear to us that there is simply a rupture, as is apparent from page 101. Mrs Kranzl, according to a discussion between us, you are quite open to the railways. You can see how much the road is in the foreground because of the fact that the distributed companies are still significantly increasing their investment volume beyond the budget – and that is what falls back. The ASFINAG travels there in 2002, with 1.2 billion in 2005, 1.5 billion in 2005, 1.6 billion in 2006, 1.7 billion in 2007 and 1.7 billion in 2008. ÖBB, rail – I'll cut it off –: In 2005, there are 1.2 billion, i.e. 300 million less than the ASFINAG, 2006 1.3 billion, which is 300 million less than the ASFINAG. In 2007 – we continue to look – for the track 1.5 billion, the ASFINAG – I have already said – € 1.765 billion, so for the ÖBB again almost € 300 million less. More in the street, less in the rail! – Minister Faymann takes his stand, Mr Molterer, and says: Priority for the rail, € 6.5 billion, estimated at 15 years, compared to € 4.5 billion. – However, if you look at the budget when drawing on the budget figures, it is unfortunately the opposite. Please, take your heart to heart: Every euro, invested in education and science, returns twice and triple as well as invests in infrastructure! I call again any number of jobs. 1 billion investment in motorway construction is equal to 8 000, 9 000 jobs. 1 billion in residential construction, in residential renovation – Mr Grossruck is not present, he is always very helpful to me – so these investments are 26 000 jobs per invested billion. Please, these are effects – effects on employment, effects on the economy and, above all, that is very, very important to me – on climate protection, because the investments you make in infrastructure are mostly, especially in the road sector of climate killer investments. We need investment in the environment, public transport. When I look at the budget, I see about public transport, order services for tactile traffic, for attractions: It stagnated, it is still stagnating. And if I listen to the words of Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance, who says that the countries can use their share of the mineral oil tax – also Mr Kukacka said so today – for public transport, I say they can. Minister Molterer said: They are expected to use these transfers in this way. But who says this is happening? – For me, this is the climate policy, the actual overall global horse foot in this budget, in addition to education and science policy. We do not need billions of investment in concrete and in buildings, we need to invest the billions in education, research, public transport, the improvement of the oil supply. We do not then need a massive increase in payments for the commuters, but simply a better offer so that they can change from car to finally attractive public. In this sense, I can say: The rucksack of debt – and Mr Molterer mentioned yesterday, too, this backpack of past debts, which he reduces, will become more difficult. This whole method, that in distributed companies of the ÖBB or in the ASFINAG, the debt is only so storming, will force us into the Federal Budget massive new debt cover actions from 2010 onwards. We'll have to pay the ÖBB again. I read that to you yesterday. My colleague, Mrs Klepsch, has made this very clear in a report from the Court of Auditors' Subcommittee. From 2008 onwards, the ÖBB is to be discharged on a massive basis. These are billions that Mr Molterer has not budgeted, billions who need to feed the next federal government out of any pot, and I don't know where – except you finally make a comprehensive truck toll. This is urgently necessary. Urgently necessary – therefore, one more revealing sentence from your presentation of the budget, where you have pointed out very clearly that taxes are additional revenue. Mineral oil tax is “increased” and at the same time, page 9 of the budget report states: The car control for trucks can be reduced in return. The tax for trucks can be lowered, a little bit you need to increase them for cars. Excuse me, who's the main cause? Precisely the trucks! This tax reduction policy for trucks is the wrong policy, as is the decommissioning of public transport, the lack of climate protection, concrete and asphalt, partly in infrastructure projects instead of education and research. I do not want to mention the economic experts: Puwein has highly criticised this infrastructure package. Also the traffic expert Gerd Sammer from the University of Soil Culture has, please, left no good hair on this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e7402	The next speaker is Mr Kurzmann. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e7423	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! The double budget for 2007/2008 is certainly not a milestone in the budget policy of the Second Republic. It is not, as Mr Molterer said yesterday, of particular historical importance. By the inflationary use of the term "historically significant", ladies and gentlemen, by the way, one should be very careful, for historically everything that happened yesterday, before yesterday, in the past. It is simply not correct to give a moderate product such as this double budget a special shine, Mr President, by stamping it up as historically significant. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Großruck]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is, the double budget is what it has always been in this Second Republic in recent years and decades: He is a sober political compromise of two parties – a compromise that is quite moving in the tracks and tracks of recent years. Josef Cap noted this even today in the early days – probably in the form of a Freud’s promise – he said: There are also traces of SPÖ in this budget. This SPÖ/ÖVP coalition has not used its majority to the great throw we have expected of it, although it will help the economy and, although it is greatly favoured by a very good economic situation. The Minister of Finance said yesterday – this is a literal quote, I wrote it: “I call myself a strong state...”. – I agree with him without letup, ladies and gentlemen. We liberals are also for a strong state, although we see ourselves as heirs of the revolution of 1848, the Civil Revolution, and thus also as defenders of human and civil rights in that state. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But we would like you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, to hear this Biblical saying: “By their deeds you shall know them.” I have the impression that what Mr Vice-Chancellor said about the strong state is more like a lip confession. I come from the Styrian capital, I come from Graz, where the public security declines month after month, in which the security situation has worsened dramatically in recent years. And this is not the claim of a liberal MP, but you can read it in the crime statistics of the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs, especially for the months of January and February. Ladies and gentlemen! Crime is increasing, the education rate is falling. They save on executives, thus endangering the security of our people. That's saving in the wrong place! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Prior to 2003, there was a special commission in Graz to combat drug crime. This was a unit that has been very successful in combating drug crime and has also had very great successes in the short term. What happened after the municipal council election? – Soko has been dissolved and drug crime has increased since then. Graz City Park has become a trap for foreign drug dealers. Here you have to put on, not with anointing findings such as: Austria is one of the safest countries in the world, simply coloring the realities. Paper, ladies and gentlemen, is well known to be patient. But where are the 206 police officers you're supposed to have available this year? – In Graz, in Styria they did not arrive. Internal security is an improvement not only in the federal states, but also in the state capital Vienna. If Mr Platter says that he is taking the rise in crime seriously, I assume that the same applies to the Federal Government, and that there are not only promises from the government bank, but also actions that finally follow.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e7496	Next, Mrs Mag. Grossmann speaking. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e7517	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! I have taken a closer look at this double budget with regard to the interests of children and young people, and I begin a first analysis with the positive, but I do not want to highlight that there are some points that I like less or which are certainly still in need of clarification. The extension of the educational budget is an investment in the future, and you can only congratulate Minister Schmied on it. For a long time you have had to wait for this quality offensive – far too long! – after all, it is about the right of opportunity and the future prospects of our children. At last, the long-term reform of the education system is under way – not by accident, but by well thought-out steps: Reducing the number of students in classes, strengthening day care, forcing political education; this is a very important accompanying measure for the planned age reduction. It is also very important to me that school travel aid is finally increased. So,in education,the main point is where the shoe is most pressing, i.e. the resources that make orderly teaching possible. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] In recent times, as we know, it has been “forced” at all corners and ends; this applies to schools as well as to universities. [[Abg. Hornek: Special in Vienna!]] The increase in scholarships is also a long-standing step towards returning at least something from what has been taken away from them. I mean, it could have been a little more. For maintenance advances, expenditure on the part of the budget and revenue are more important, i.e. that more is being done in the future than in the past – this is a very important measure to combat poverty, considering that around 15 percent of all children do not receive support at all, which in turn underlines a general reform towards a maintenance security system, as we have done together. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For family counsellors, parental education, mediation, child support, much more is proposed in the implementation of the government programme, not only in the family resort, but above all in the judicial community. However: The more than 2 million for the controversial Family & Profession Management GmbH could have been saved, but there Minister Kdolsky inherited a mortgage from the previous government, very much to her suffering, as she also announced in a “standard” interview. There is generally still a need for clarification in the field of youth promotion. The basic support for youth promotion was cut down last year, but it has been increased in this year, but only slightly – in the light of the fact that more and more youth organisations have been included in the circle of the supported organisations, i.e. the cake remains essentially the same, but is divided into more and more pieces. In the government programme, we have agreed on a clear target, namely promotion in terms of quality assurance, security of existence, planning security of the organisations – that is, when new, further organisations are included, the funding pot must also be increased accordingly. You'll have to look more closely at that. Discussions have already been announced by the Minister in the Committee, but I am confident that the government programme will be implemented correctly. Overall, from a child's and a youth's point of view, a positive estimate can be made: Reforms have been started, the revolutions are still a bit late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e7566	Mr Mitterlehner is next speaker. Also 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e7587	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! This morning, certain pictures were mentioned in the introduction: One sees the big milestone, the other even construction sites, where Bulldozer passes through to clear up problems. And even now the previous speakers have spoken again of missing the big throw and this and that. That's what I'm saying: We're talking about a federal budget! And the Bundesbudget is still in a roomalistic position, that is, I would look at it if the great throw would really be made here, which would then be told about you in the sense of planning security, in the sense of sustainability. It's similar to me when I look at the evaluation. The Wifo experts, for example, are going too little towards zero-indebtedness – you could have done more. Here and today one hears more: Well, it's far too little in the area, in another area, there or there. Therefore: What's the budget? – In my opinion, it is a balancing act – a very successful balancing act – which is between the one side, which is achieved in terms of economic exploitation and thus approach to a zero budget, and on the other hand, the very right impulse is particularly in research, especially in education, but above all in the direction of infrastructure. I did not fully understand you, Mrs Moser: I mean, one can now discuss these studies and the employment effect you mentioned, but I see the problem that we have in the infrastructure sector of need for recovery – mainly because we did the EU enlargement just a few years ago, but we did not have the necessary infrastructure in the road and rail sectors. If I now talk about the S 10 or, for example, about the West Ring, I say, we will create equal opportunities for the citizens there. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: This is a bypass...!]] There we make choices for the future! It is also a question of life opportunities, a question of quality of life, that we meet with realizations there. That is why I think it is quite right that we have taken the right steps in the area of infrastructure. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Infrastructure is not a self-evident!]] The second thing I don't understand – you're going a little further than the reality, which is actually implemented in the budget accompanying law – is the car tax: There it is unpopular to say: Yes, you have to relieve the transport industry too!, but I do. Why do you have to do it? – Because on the one hand we have a driving power-dependent orientation with the toll – and I think that is right – on the other hand, we also have the car tax in the international comparison. We have one of the highest in all of Europe. If I assume that we are living in an internationally networked world, it is very important that equal opportunities exist here. That is why the car tax must be at least on the international average, and one could even take the opportunity to put greening measures and incentives there. – That is, I would say, absolutely necessary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Second point. Ladies and gentlemen! The big step into the future is, in my opinion, that we are finally approaching this 60 percent debt ratio, and that we are failing it in 2008. Take a look at the international scene! There are 27 EU countries 17, which are already under this framework. It must be said that in the EU section of the old countries, debt is much higher, namely at 68 percentage points, but there it is characterized by Italy, Belgium and Germany. And these countries are not at the forefront of education, research, infrastructure, but in the front is Ireland with 24 percent government debt ratio, for example Denmark with 24 percent and the United Kingdom with 44 percent. That is, what I have said before, you have to take this as a condition for us not to act internationally in debt cover, but to be able to make future investments. What have we actually lived on in recent years? – Mainly because the export has worked. In this area we have considerable increases: Seven years ago, when the coalition began, we had around one export rate – services and goods – of 41 percent, now we are 57 percent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What does that mean? – These were the right conditions. Secondly, however, this also means that in globalisation we are intimidating fears that would not be necessary, because if I, as a state of Austria, can put 57 percent of 100 percent of my goods out of my businesses, then somewhere does not have to agree with this globalisation fear, but we are successful, we are competitive. I would also like – this is a small criticism – that in the field of the “go international” initiative we have already had budgets for the coming years to the extent that we would actually expect, but that is not the case at present. But, as I said earlier, somewhere is a budget a balancing act, somewhere the necessary one is linked to the possible, and so we accept it, but are sure that, due to the other framework conditions, we are actually on a very good path. I think the budget is balanced, the budget is a good basis for greater competitiveness and ultimately for more jobs.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e7649	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e7670	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is a real pleasure that I can speak after my colleague Mitterlehner – now I can also answer him. Point 1: The "construction" image, Mr Mitterlehner, does not come from us. It was quoted several times. It comes from a member of the government, and rightly this member of the government called the state in this ministry “constructional”. [[Abg. Grandruck: Who was that?]] – Federal Minister Kdolsky has repeatedly publicly declared that the state in her ministry or what she has taken over from her predecessors looks disastrous and like a construction site. This is also a result of your policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] Secondly, Mr Mitterlehner: It is good and none of us will criticize the fact that Austrian companies were strong in exports. Bravo! [[Abg. May. Hakl: Bravo!]] Whatever the Austrians can expect from Austrian companies for years to come, however, is that they are also taking part in this success of Austrian companies and companies, that in the distribution between wages and profits a little change in favour of those dependent on wages and low incomes, Mr. Mitterlehner! We have been observing this for years, and we are constantly putting it to the debate: Something has to change here, something has to be done here! It cannot be assumed that nothing has happened in the area of unemployment benefits, in the field of minimum wages in Austria for years! In 2003 – that was under the Black and Blue Federal Government – you said: 1 000 € minimum wage. Now, as a black and red federal government, you will be back in the program! It would have been expected that at least one inflation adjustment would take place, saying that instead of € 1,000 from 2003 and 2002 this would actually have to be €1 100. No, it didn't happen. Other countries, such as the United Kingdom, which you have just quoted, are far ahead of us. These can afford a minimum wage of €1 200/300, Mr. Mitterlehner. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: What about Germany?]] 1 200 €/1 300 €! It is. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: They have a bigger market! That's quite another thing!]] – Ah, the bigger market it is! You have just spoken about it, Mr Mitterlehner, that we were actually wonderfully strong in exports. So we have the big market quite clearly – only when it comes to letting people participate in the profits, then you are not involved. That cannot be done, Mr Mitterlehner. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This applies not only to employed or self-employed workers, but also to small and medium-sized enterprises, as far as social security is concerned, for example, where the Chamber of Commerce is one of those who have also repeatedly requested it in the past. Just where's something happening? Where are we going in the field of minimum security? We now note in the budget as regards unemployment insurance, emergency aid, for 2007 and 2008 no correction is planned. So it stays at the low replacement rates. It remains with the fact that people receive only €300 or €400 per month. Be very honest: What you always assure us, knocking on your shoulder, is that this government – i.e. ÖVP-SPÖ or vice versa – has increased the minimum pensions, which has nothing to do with reality! It was not this government, but at the time when this increase in minimum pensions was decided – and that was good, because it would not have been possible at all otherwise, I am relatively sure – this government has not yet existed. All the parties had to go because it would not have been possible at all – even the parties that have resisted the increase of minimum pensions all the time and all years! Mr. Federal Minister, if you are already sitting here and of course waiting for a speech, I would like to make one point: [[Interference by Federal Minister Dr. Hahn]] They shook their heads pretty unbelievably when Mr Michi Sburny addressed her opinion and, in my opinion, too little increase in scholarships. They were disbelief – I can even understand! – when she said the scholarships will be increased by 12-comma-and-what-white-I percent, but they should have been increased by 17 percent since the last increase after the inflation rate. The point is not that there is now 17 percent increase or just this 12.3 or 12.4 percent, but the point is that in Austria we continue to afford an extremely shabby scholarship system. Compare this with other countries! Compare the height of the average scholarships! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl.]] You can't talk, Mrs. Hakl! I'm sure you didn't get a scholarship. I've got one. And I know what I'm talking about. I also know that compared to 1970, when I studied, the scholarships in 2006/2007 are now extremely low and shamefully low. As long as They do not change this state, we will still have to do with the fact that 80 percent of students are dependent on work, that their study periods are extremely prolonged, because of course they have to earn money, even if and especially when they have a scholarship, because it is not enough to live. [[New call for tender May. Hakl]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e7786	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hauser. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e7807	Mr President. Estimated Minister! High house! Of course, five minutes at Weitem are not enough to speak in detail now about the budget, but I would say that the previous debate is of course marked by the basic statement: Every collar praises its goods. – That is, in principle, legitimate, but where the whole thing becomes problematic and difficult, it is in economic terms, because of course they are irrevocable and irrevocable. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign, as Abg. Oillinger is located near the speaker’s desk at the government bank and is speaking to Federal Minister Dr. Hahn.]] And here it is interesting how different now the achievement of these figures is interpreted and how the opinion changes over and over again. For example, today, Mr Mitterlehner and other previous speakers have repeatedly found how great it is when the debt ratio is lower than 60 percent. I say in principle: yes. I believe that every parliamentarian here in the House must say that this is an important economic goal, and we must do everything we can to achieve it. But the question is: How do we do that? – And about this How to discuss! For example, if you think that gold reserves have been sold in recent years, for example, 100 tons of gold alone, and that at least € 12.5 billion of revenue has been harvested, which has also contributed to reducing total debt, you have to say that correctly and not say: Great, we are on a great way, and we have a macroeconomic goal, namely to reduce total debt to less than 60 percent. – This is the discussion that we should and must hold. Or another discussion: Here, for example, one finds here again and again – Mr Mitterlehner says it –: Go international! – I say it’s good and right if we’re also world champions in export, if we’re good – great, great! The question is: What happens in a few years? If everyone does that and everyone says they are growing their economies because they are successful in exporting, I wonder: When will these markets once be exhausted? In fact, our goal should be to think about strengthening the domestic economy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl.]] Economic growth is also achieved by or would primarily be achieved by strengthening domestic private consumption, please beautiful! So we have economic growth – and we are glad that we have economic growth – because we manage to be active in export. But let's take a look at the local citizens! That's where we have to go! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We need to see that we really increase the purchasing power of our population, at the broad mass of the population! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At present, we have the paradox that the number of persons on the brink of social and financial existence is constantly increasing, and on the other hand, of course, we have a growing economy. But the gap between the poor and the rich is breaking apart! And we're only able to cut this gap down formally because we're the world's champion in the export – which I'm in favour of. But – and now the big But! – we need to think strategicly about what to do in order to support income in our own country, namely the large majority of the population. You have to be able to discuss this! Again and again, we are world champions in tourism. I say: Yeah, yeah, great, great. Why are we world champions? – Because of course the gastronomy, the accommodation companies, the landlords work day and night because they provide the guests with a great product. The government's support, on the part of the budget, is far from there. I am thinking, for example, of Austrian tourism advertising. For years, the same budget has been available to tourism. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] If you subtract inflation, there is a real devaluation of the tourism budget from this area. I mean, that's a shame! It is a shame that this important state of tourism is treated more than stepmotherly by the government. This is seen from the fact that the tourism budget for Austrian tourism advertising, Austria's advertising, has remained the same in recent years, which means that it has actually decreased. That's where it belongs! Tourism has nothing of words, has nothing of empty promises. We have to start where we can also support purchasing power in our own country. And then we need to support an industry that is responsible for ensuring that about every fifth worker receives their work in this area.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e7894	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Gartlehner. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e7916	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. Minister! The colleague of the FPÖ has said it is interesting that you are famous for doing international business, because if everyone thinks so, then everyone is only exporting more, and how does that end? I believe that the right approach in the future will be that it will no longer be reduced at national level, but that this global market will also be considered as its home market. Therefore, I think that the approach to thinking is a little reformable. But you're perfectly right: The last government period was marked by the sale of our gold reserves – more than 100 tons! When you converted this, it was good two years of budget deficit that were won here and which, of course, brought the overall picture of these seven years into a bit poor light, because you know that at this time the new debt was the same as in the socialist government alone, which at the time lasted 13 years, but then the growth at the same re-indebtedness rate as in these last seven years has been twice as high. It is also a fact that the large debt was actually started only from 1987. - But please! We consolidate, everyone agrees, and it's vainly wondrous. Nevertheless, there is a research and development budget for our R & D activities, which – I believe – is on the right path. We do not know today whether the 3-percent limit can really be reached in a targeted way, that is clear. I believe, however, that if everyone makes an effort...! At the moment I have this impression, even because of the comments that come partly from the universities that come from the funds coming from the non-university areas, that here the satisfaction – at least at the moment – is relatively high. I believe that we have the task of promoting these incentives as they are currently being made by the FFG, by the FWF and also by aws to promote developments and innovations in Austria with the high potential of knowledge and technical understanding in this Republic. However, I believe that it is necessary to develop further instruments in order to be able to implement these innovations into products as well. It's just that almost never the structure of our banking landscape and our fund landscape is enough, because simply Basel II is a brake on many realizations. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that a major step is also needed in the field of non-university research. We know that Seibersdorf has been quite low in recent years and that there really is a great need for reform. [[Abg. Oils: Mild description!]] [[Abg. Gaal: Reference directed!]] I think we need to develop a new mission there – new mission, new identification. Then I am very optimistic that the Austrian R&D landscape has a good witness again. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e7966	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e7987	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I cannot give Mr Gartlehner the right way because he is a little weak, whether we reach the 3%. I say we have to reach 3 percent research rate by the year 2010! This is an absolute prerequisite for continuing a successful course that we have taken in the past. I say: It is the lower limit of what we need to achieve. It's right, we have to think about how we reach them. Dr. Van der Bellen, you have spoken today about the fact that from your point of view it is too little what you are doing here. If you just list the facts about the past years – research offensive programs, two pieces, National Foundation for Research, Research Bonds, and now four years up to the year 2010 counted €800 million from the public hands, which are to be added to it again, € 50 million this year, € 150 million next year, € 250 million then and the rest in 2010 – then you see, we are on an excellent path. However, it is also important to know that the research rate is financed and financed by the public sector everywhere to a relatively small extent. I think it's very interesting because of that – you may not have been knowingly touched at the most important point! – that you've been playing on the United States. On page 75 in the work aid for this budget, the layout is included – unfortunately only from 2004 – which levers are reached by which country with its public resources. In 2004 – and that was before we reformed the research funding lines before we renewed the programmes before enabling the Research and Technology Development Council to put the right focus here together with the policy, before – we had a research quota – stately! – which was higher than that of Finland, we have had a research rate that was also about the same as that of the UK. But Finland was still much better than Austria or Great Britain, because its economic sector is so much stronger, and we were better than Britain, because the economic sector was already much better in our time. I know that we have taken a lot more money from the public side here, but what is more important is that the money has actually taken control of it, because here, like elsewhere, the casting pot principle is wrong and unnecessary. This is where we have used the funds very targetingly. I am glad that, with “Gio” Hahn, we have a Minister for Research and Science, which will ensure that we do not just stay here, but get even better, because we have said: Good is not good enough in this area at Weitem. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] That's why: Whoever can't operate – and I say that now – can't do research either! These additional funds, which we are taking into account, must also be used properly and together with the economy. [[Abg. Oillingers: Those who don't research can't run either!]] – That’s quite right: Even those who don't research can't run. [[Abg. Oillinger: But we blame you!]] Only together we can do that. But both are needed, and unfortunately I always hear from you that more money – wherever – should flow in research. At least that's too little. What we are going to do is to use this money in such a targeted way that companies can also make an even greater contribution to gross domestic product so that the additional funds in future technologies and in future sectors flow. And we must also say, if we say SME research, that micro and micro-enterprises will probably not be able to participate in the large research pots, but that we must ensure that healthy companies in Austria also participate in it with critical sizes, micro and micro-enterprises, as they take part in their research programmes and develop them further. That's what we're doing with the research minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e8055	The next speaker was Dr Zinggl, Member of Parliament. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e8076	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me look for a few words about the sad chapter art and culture, because I just miss the words. I have known for a long time that the Minister of Finance for Culture and Art has nothing left. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: He plays guitar!]] This has now been manifested in the fact that he has not lost a word on the subject in this speech. [[Abg. Lens: Reading!]] He writes and has also said that investments are made where they are necessary. That is, it is not necessary for art and culture. He's already sort of demasked. It has also been criticised by former State Secretary, cultural speaker Morak in the press that too little has been spent. You could have done better in the years before, you didn't succeed. But the criticism is correct: There have been declining figures since 2000, a budget of € 246 million in 2001 and now only one of € 228 million. This is a drop of almost 20 percent. There's no inflation yet. If you charge another 10 to 15 percent, then you come to at least 30 percent real decline in the art budget. That is quite right to suffocate, and it was also constantly propagated by the SP in the election campaign: It can't go on like this! Even in the years before that, Mrs. Muttonen, you have said again and again: We need 1% of the government's budget. That would have been €200 million – and now is nothing! This is quite embarrassing on the part of SPÖ. Of course, we have something like an inflation tax in two years for the representative theatre to expect for the federal museums – at least something. That was a requirement – I admit – of the People's Party, not of the Social Democrats! Of course, we, both the Social Democrats and the Greens, have nothing against it. We're glad when all of this is financially secured. However, what is always forgotten is that there are other cultural establishments and that the quantitatively much more are producing, that of course they are also suffering from inflation and that year after year is not taken into account. Then we have exactly the precarious employment conditions in the area where it will then be necessary to establish social security and, and, Artists clearly belong to the weakest income grouping in Austria. I see nothing in the state budget now in connection with the innovation of the social security law for the artists. How to finance this will be, let's look at it. On the topic of film – it is said so quickly: 2 million € more for the film, juhu! – In the election campaign, the ÖVP called for €10 million, the SPÖ €20 million. Now we have a great coalition of the two parties, and it comes out an increase in two years from €2 to €3 million! It can't be! When we consider that the Minister is also talking about the resolution of deposits, we have to say: We have to look at that very carefully! What do you mean, deposits are dissolved? Reserves are not anything you can take and then somehow, if you need a budget when you need money, you can resolve it. These are intended and cannot at least be budgeted twice. I'm sure it won't be. That's exactly what we're looking after. These are budget-player tricks, just like the Minister, as the Ministry also told the media in contrast to the budget estimate, as we all have, that the budget has increased by 4 to 5 percent, because she has simply calculated the special expenditure of the previous year – and then there is an increase of 4 percent, which is anyway nothing. That's not how it's done! You can't use such pocket-player tricks to make the budget nice. This has been tried in the previous government by your former Secretary of State and has not gone through. It will not go through in the future, we will take care of it very carefully. Mrs. Schmied – as I am quite convinced of that – is best willing and can certainly not do anything for her Federal Chancellor, the art certainly somehow – just as we have read it over the last few days – so important that he absolutely wants to make his friend a state director, but obviously not so important that he has secured the budget or anchored an increase as expected by the many cultural creators on the part of the SPÖ, whose hopes have now been disappointed. If the Minister speaks of the fact that art and culture cannot be spent enough, it is slightly cynical given the fact that there is clearly too little spending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e8129	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Hofer. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e8150	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! When we talk about the budget today, we also need to remember the election campaign and what was discussed and promised by political parties by us, by politicians. A very big topic in the election campaign was the care problem, the so-called care emergency at the time. We have been discussing this care emergency for a year now. Working groups have been set up – a working group chaired by former Styrian head of state Klasnic – but there are still no results on the table. Of course, the problem has been solved by labour law. [[Abg. Oil: Who?]] This is very positive, and I very much welcome it. However, the problem has not yet been solved financially. I can now employ someone 24 hours at home – under conditions that are not very pleasant for the employee, I give you the right to do so! – but how can I actually afford legal care as a victim? I would like to remind you that in 1993 we took a major social step in Austria with the introduction of the care allowance. This care allowance has been increased several times since 1993, but it has de facto come to a devaluation of the care allowance. This depreciation accounts for more than 17 percent today. If you look at the care levels, you can see that this percentage – 17 percent – corresponds to an amount of €400 per year at care level 1. At the highest care level, at the care level 7, this percentage is equal to €3 150. In other words, that is an essential amount for those concerned. If we demand that the care allowance be adjusted today, I would like to stress that this adjustment is not an increase, but merely an adjustment to the value of the last few years. It is very, very sad that this double budget and also this federal government in their government agreement do not provide for this adjustment of value. I would have liked to see a federal government that represents a German chancellor who belongs to the SPÖ, and who also represents a social minister who belongs to the SPÖ, taking this social step. It's a shame that this is not the case. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] If we legalize care, we must also consider where the workers are from who are supposed to carry out this legal work. It is therefore necessary to give young people in Austria an opportunity to learn a profession that will certainly be one of the most important occupations in the future through a training offensive in the care sector. Because hardly a profession will be as crisis-proof, future-proof due to demographic development as that in the field of care. And for care assistance and support work in the household – shopping and so on – there can be a re-training offensive. There are probably also unemployed people who have social access and want to work and support with people who have physical problems. And this unemployed person can be given this opportunity in the context of a re-training offensive. But you cannot force anyone to do so, for not everyone is suitable to deal with the disabled, with the sick, often with the sick. An important concern to be implemented concerns the allowances for those people who cannot benefit from public transport due to their disability and therefore depend on private cars. These people need the car to be mobile, and are of course affected by the fuel price increases in recent years and now also by the increase in the oil tax. There's a free charge for these people. This allowance has not been increased over the last 17 years. It became that thank God, the pendler's fee was raised a little bit, it was raised a little bit, but this allowance has not been increased in the last 17 years. I therefore ask you to look at this allowance, not only to increase it – and I would like to thank Mrs Haidlmayr, who has launched a similar initiative – but also to make a deduction from this allowance, because many disabled people deserve so little that they cannot really benefit from the allowance. My last request to this federal government is to allow for chronically ill people, for disabled people, drug packs, because these people are always dependent on buying drugs, and need very large quantities, and the implementation of this requirement would certainly be a great relief for those concerned. Ladies and gentlemen! I will also submit what I have now proposed in the framework of applications. Two applications have already been submitted: increasing the amount of care and the allowances for people with disabilities who depend on a private car. I would ask you to support these demands in the committees.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e8190	Mr Parnigoni. 4 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e8211	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, I think, has formulated it most accurately, in which he said: The budget is balanced – there is fiscal stability on the one hand and important investments in the future on the other. This means that despite huge investments, such as the infrastructure with which huge assets are created, there is a reduction in debt. Investments for the future are, for example, documented by the fact that there is a significant increase in education, culture and art. Mr Zinggl, I can tell you that Chapter 13, Art, has made up €227 million in 2006 execution. At least €228.4 million in 2007, €231.9 million in 2008. And it must not be forgotten that the figures for 2006 included the Mozart Year, for which there was a special paper. All in all, then, the cultural budget is quite acceptable, and this is also a success of Mrs Schmied. Ladies and gentlemen, this documentation also continues in the social field through higher minimum pensions, by a higher care allowance, Mr Hofer, that is a fact. Without the SPÖ, there would probably have been no increase in the care allowance. There is more money for health care, more money for family benefits. And there has also been a turnaround in the field of internal security. That's a fact. For the first time, there is more staff and more money for the executive, and of course it is the case that the misevaluation that has been made, particularly among Minister Strasser, has meant that one can save in security, make us still difficult to create and that misevaluation will still be overcome. However, in 2007 and 2008 we achieved for the first time more than three percent of the budget for internal security in the overall budget, which is quite positive for the executive. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The red trail, the social-democratic manuscript, is a little bit affected by the fact that security must not be saved and that the safety of people is particularly important to us. [[Abg. Street: But very little! Little! Very tender!]] However, it is quite clear that the executive and therefore also the policy of budgetary policy are facing challenges: Schengen enlargement, EURO 2008, evaluation of the 2004 police reform. We must be equipped to do this. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also positive to note that our demand for faster processing of asylum procedures has been taken into account by increasing planning sites in the area of federal asylamt and UBAS. All in all, a budget that we agree with is a step in the direction of ensuring the safety of Austrians, which is possible only through the 30 000 police officers and the employees of the security administration, and which is really due our thanks. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e8254	Now, Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), on 4 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e8275	Madam President. Lords of the Federal Government! Dear ladies and gentlemen! It's heard several times, but it's gratifying enough to say it again: Our economy is flourishing. More than 3 per cent growth, which is sustainable, as is apparent, leads to declining unemployment rates, more employment, more prosperity through rising incomes. One for the Minister of Finance A pleasant side effect is also an increasing tax revenue. All this enables us to achieve a better financial capacity for our tasks, which we have to do for people: to create and improve social security, to force education and research, to force infrastructure investment. All of this is done in particular with this Federal budget. In addition to these gratifying However, offensive action must also be taken in our actions to ensure that this action is sustainable. To pay attention to sustainability means to shape our production processes in such a way that we do not consume more resources than we take over as a generation. The same applies to our claim – and the claim is not small – to mobility, individual mobility, especially in the living area, which now causes a high level of emissions. Climate protection is not only in every mouth, because it is especially mediated at the moment, but it is right in all mouths, because climate protection is indeed one of the biggest challenges for the next time. If you look at the budget, there are increases in the environmental budget in almost all positions: Green Pact, environmental promotion. But one should be particularly pointed out and given particular attention, this is the establishment of this Climate and Energy Fund, a fund with which we want to try to link ecology and economy by forcing research, especially in the field of energy forms used, but also new forms of energy, new technologies and their application, by promoting, above all, the market penetration of these forms of energy, and not least, forward-looking investments in the field of passenger and freight transport. I think that this fund is in the right hands, through the competence of the Ministers for Transport, for the Environment, but also for the Economy. The resolution is entrusted to two profiled bodies, namely municipal credit and research promotion company. I think we have a huge chance to make quantum leaps with this fund in the effort to protect climate by developing new technologies, new forms of application with this money. I think that this is a very, very essential aspect of this federal budget for 2007 and 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e8318	Mr Grünewald came next. 5 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e8339	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! It's been a little bit different since Grasser when I go on a search for tracks, that's right. But I still get the impression that I am listening here that the government is still spreading so much incense over all the numbers that you either cry your eyes before graze or you can't read the numbers as they stand in the budget. And if then Exupéry is quoted – I find that pious; Karin Hakl is unfortunately not there – you have to read Exupéry more widely: On his journey from asteroid to asteroid, he visits a planet ruled by an owl and a nine-malklugen, and he says to the little prince: Get down! That's what he says: Why? You're a subject! The Eitle replied: Clap your hands and admire me! - I don't want to play the little prince that way. You're not such a guy, I admit that, but there's enough others to try. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Also at Cap I laughed more hearty once, when he lures us into the search for the tracks to discover here the great treasures in the science budget. As a physician, I was more reminded of hair root analyses, and they're all in the micro-area, there were no treasure trousers to see. – So there is a bit less talk about milestones and quantum leaps, but it is enough to look at reality, there are enough hintling and stumbling stones, and I want to talk to them now. Firstly, I say to Molterer that the number of people should not be confused with the majority. He said that all universities are being renovated and brought to the forerman – structurally, infrastructurally – and there is €500 million for that. The truth is that years ago only for the 20 most urgent rehabilitation projects – these are not all universities – in order to comply with worker protection regulations – not to research, just to comply with worker protection provisions – the costs were estimated at €700 million exclusive VAT. Now it is €500 million, including VAT, until 2013, because the employee protection provisions apply only to the so beloved students and so loved and promoted young scientists. - Something's missing! Then I belong to the scholarships – but that has been discussed – the rate of increase is better than nothing. This is clear and thank you very much, but it does not even cover the rising cost of living in recent years. Do you know what the budget says? – 176.6 million in 2006, 2007 it is 180.5 and next year 181.5. That's 5 million, and with 5 million, there's no increase by 12 percent, but a maximum of 2 percent. – These are the realities. So exaggeration is not yet a teaching subject at the universities, so you should hold back a little. In the case of young scientists, 1 000 plan posts will be financed more. – Löblich und gut, but do you know, Federal Minister, how many young scientists in the last five, six, seven years had to leave the university, because regardless of their performance automatically – automatically by law! – their four-year contract went out and there was no money to re-establish it? – This number goes into the hundreds! Ask rectors, board of directors and so on! So just to close this gap, I'll need a thousand soon. This is, as it were, a zero-sum game against the past few years. Nevertheless: You should continue this path. Three years, the federal government owes the universities the payments to the pension fund. At present there are collective agreements which are still to be negotiated, which are not budgeted. So I wonder, Where does the budget come from? – I think you want to do something, but you really have to do something! Overtime hours for doctors at university clinics resulting from patient work are not paid! In Innsbruck, the university owes these overtimes to young doctors for years! – To do nothing, Gehrer said. The FWF is expanding. That's good, but he wants to expand much more with these excellence clusters, so you need to get some more. And dear Karin Hakl is written in the main book: Even the Research and Technology Council says: If we want to reach 3 percent of gross domestic product, there is a funding gap in the budget path of almost € 2 billion by 2010. – So I’m with you, but please don’t agree to the cheers for which there is no reason! If you think you see the goddess of wisdom shining from the Greek Olympus on his desk every day, and then say 2,000 kilometers further away in Parliament, we have taken one step, I can only tell you: There are still about 1 999 kilometers missing. – Good luck on this trip!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e8414	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klement to speak. 5 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e8436	Estimated President! Minister! High house! Although Austria is in a high economy, Austria is making new debts. We have the highest debt since 1945: 160 billion € plus 22 billion extra-budget liabilities, totaling 183.2 billion € in debt. We've already heard: 22,000 € debt per head and nose. Now I come to the previous speaker Karlheinz Kopf. He said that we are in the super situation of having a nominal economic growth of 4.6 percent, a real of 3.1 percent. – And yet this new budget has a minimum of €3.8 billion or a minus of 0.9 percent relative to the gross domestic product. In other words, despite the booming economy, we do nothing at all to minimize public debt and to clean up the government budget. This is a debt admission, which is an admission of a completely false economic and financial policy of the Vice-President. If the Minister of Finance now claims that he fulfils the Maastricht criteria, one must say: Either he was wrong, or these Maastricht criteria are a complete “wooder” because that is not how it works: We are still in debt and we are fulfilling all the conditions as he says. So apparently the Minister of Finance has some computing problems. And something else: Not every increase in a budget item must automatically be an advantage or a positive development. I am addressing these financial grants to the JI/CDM programme. For the Enlightenment: “JI/CDM” means “Joint Implementation” and “Clean Development Mechanism”. These are projects in Austria to control international emissions trading and control our Kyoto measures. With these JI/CDM programs, we finance water plants in China, Colombia, landfill gas plants in New Zealand – that is, energy policy a total nonsense. With these funds, this €56 million, we are not at all able to reduce CO2 in Austria. We thus produce value-added losses in Austria. So we have no value added from these projects in Austria itself: 56 million outsourced money! We are doing knowledge transfer to remote regions without consideration, and we are indirectly promoting nuclear energy, because precisely these countries, in which we are promoting JI/CDM programmes, naturally have less CO2 emissions because they are using nuclear energy. – That means that this is a completely false environmental approach! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is a completely false environmental approach, because we are promoting projects abroad with our money and therefore we do not achieve any improvement in the existing environmental situation at all. The generally demonstrated Kyoto objective of creating energy systems that will cover 50 percent of the energy needs of renewable energy by 2030 will not be reachable at all because no figures are set in this budget to force the expansion of all these new forms of energy. I see nothing in it of solar energy, geothermal, photovoltaics and so on. And there is no approach to this pioneering role that Germany has already taken, namely with this EEG law, with this Renewable Energy Act, in order to take only steps in this right direction. In other words, Austria will not achieve anything in the energy field with these figures to separate itself from these oil and gas markets, which really bring us into total dependence. It will certainly not be possible to achieve energy autarchy with this programme. It will also be completely forgotten that we have a great opportunity to force renewable energy. We have a chance to create really 20 000 to 30 000 new jobs in these areas in the next few years. This would be a great opportunity, but the Minister of Finance has also taken a completely different approach. A short while ago on the subject of agriculture. The agricultural budget accounts for 2.8 billion. So there is no increase in how it has been strongly propagated, on the contrary: The only thing that increases is the expenditure for the Ministry of Agriculture. That is, the only one who benefits is the minister himself. It is not at all deduced from these figures that we have a change in agricultural policy. That means there is no structural change in the sense: Promotions away from the large corporations, away from the large farms to the promotion of small farms. We need to promote the structures in Austria, i.e. the promotion of small and medium-sized farmers and not the promotion of large companies! That is total nonsense, a complete misappropriation of the Minister for Agriculture. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'll finish. The Conlusio: We have a great opportunity due to a good economic situation in Austria. You don't use these at all! They do nothing at all to absorb this overhanging of the economy and to benefit from the areas that are looking to the future. They completely disregard the new possibilities and do not focus on making policy really the course. I can only say: Not enough for the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e8518	Mr Matznetter has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e8539	Madam President. My colleagues on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would just like to comment on a few points and first of all allow me to address the question of principle, namely: Does this government save enough in the light of the high economy? If you focus your attention on the fact that, due to the world economy, we have not grown to the same extent as the EU-15 or the eurozone due to very great growth in 2006 at an unexpected rate of 3.1 percent, unfortunately, in Austria. The increase in comparison to the previous forecasts, but very pleased for us, because unemployment is falling... – Mrs Hakl, this is quite interesting! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl.]] In the last three years, deficit development has been as follows: In 2004, we had a deficit of 1.2 percent, at which time growth was 2.4 percent. Then we had a deficit of 1.5 percent with a growth of 2 percent and lastly a deficit of 1.1 percent in 2006 with a growth of 3.1 percent. That is to say, this federal government, after we were unfortunately not yet below 1 percent at the height of the economy – and this is really a compliment for the new Finance Minister Wilhelm Molterer – must therefore make a change of course, and we must do this part, which we should have done at a time when the economy was getting better and better, and that is what we are doing with very careful values: 2.7 percent growth for 2007 – with the expectations of economic researchers expecting 3 percent this year – and 2.3 percent for 2008 – with the expectations of economic researchers. At the same time, we achieve a real turnaround with a Maastricht-related deficit of 0.91 percent and 0.73 percent. I think that is a new form and a new course that should be recognized. At the same time, we are really trying to make more money available for the future areas. I have, so to speak, selected my last critical comment on the 2006 budget here in the House, and what was my accusation to the last government? The first accusation was that there is too little being done to reduce unemployment. I would ask you to bear in mind that when you look at the budget figures, two things have happened here,... – Mrs. Hakl, you do not have to put the light under the mint. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl.]] – Following this criticism, which took place at the 2006 budget, the then Federal Government, for the first time after years – in Innsbruck at that time the government summit – did something very successful, namely the offensive for active labour market policy. And it worked! And this federal government is continuing this to a large extent important means for active labour market policy. I should like to remind you that we are maintaining overall the level of 1,788 billion for active and activating labour market policies for 2007 to 2008, although unemployment is falling significantly. This means nothing more than that we have more resources for active and active labour market policies in this area per job seeker than we ever had before. It is reasonable that this Federal Government remains committed to a very strong degree despite declining unemployment, so that we can achieve our objective of reducing unemployment to significantly less than 4 percent by 2010. My second accusation in the speech at that time was that significant increases in infrastructure investment are not yet visible. And even here we don't need to hide our budget. The Minister for Infrastructure is here and may present the figures to you afterwards. Just a brief review: We increase total investment from 3,476 billion to 3,739 billion in 2006 and 3,847 billion in 2008. The road budget, where, in addition to the increase in the 2008 ASFINAG investments to 1,199, the Federal Government's contributions to the construction programme for the B federal road, we are increasing from 1,641 billion to 1,744 billion in 2008. In the area of rail, guaranteed by this Federal Government by maintaining capital financing for the uptake of extra-budget funds, there is an increase in investment from 1.373 billion to 1.615 billion in 2008. That means: Give gas in the area of rail infrastructure! In the area of construction, over 462 million 497 million and 488 million euros will be invested. In other words, this “more for infrastructure” focus is not only respected by the Federal Government, but also maintained in the coming years. And those who have listened attentively to the public statements made by Mr Faymann and Mr Molterer, Vice President of the Council, last week, know that an ambitious, committed, ambitious and appropriate infrastructure programme will be implemented in the coming years. As there has always been doubts as to whether expenditure in the field of education is really the case. More than that, I would like to allow myself to explain briefly how extra expenditure in the field of education is distributed. The part one is what we have in the Ordinario budget on the personnel expenditure of structural nature. We have the effect that the number of pupils in the field of compulsory schools, i.e. in the area of schools located in the countries and communities, is already falling, because of the low birth rate, but in the area above all the AHS and the BHS we have increasing student numbers. There we have an additional need of €4 million and in 2008 one of €12.7 million. Total expenditure for federal and regional teachers rose by €30.5 million in 2007 and €100.9 million in 2008. Of these, €23.8 million is due to the decrease in the number of school students in 2007, €89.5 million in 2008. I would like to stress at this point: It is not true that we only have the reduction in the number of students in classes programmed, but that the Minister of Education is planning on this part of the reform and that we are making available the necessary budgetary resources as from the coming school year 2007/2008 for various school and school-related measures; for measures that are available: Quality assurance, voluntary preschool, women and girls in technology. This year, more than €11.9 million and more €25 million will be earmarked for funding for education clusters and enhanced political education. For the student aid, which, as already discussed, increases by more than 15 percent: this year, € 2.4 million – because only four months –, € 11.9 million in the coming year. Several other positions, of which I would like to highlight only a few: More rents in the area of the BIG because we need more areas in the federal schools to produce the maximum number of students 25: half a million € in this year, 1.5 million € next year; only for additional rents for federal schools so that we can implement the maximum number of students in the classes. In total, it is 50 million € more this year, really more for these measures, next year it is 145 million € more. Research and development has been sufficiently discussed, I can only take a brief look at the past. We have always said: too little ambitious, but we have acknowledged that Austria has shown tremendous efforts in the last decade to get up in the residue of the F&E-Quote. We have managed to break through the sound wall 2%, and we will exceed the sound wall 3 percent of the gross domestic product during this legislative period. The necessary expenses of the federal government are not to be despised either, because this amount has to be drawn up continuously in the budget. I can inform you at this point: If you look at the research and development costs that the federal government has to bear, then you have to say that in the years since 2000, then €1 287,000,000, it has increased to €1 693,000,000 until 2006 and we now increase it to €1 861,000,000 and next year, 2008 to €1 923,000,000; plus 9.9 percent and plus 3.3 percent. This, ladies and gentlemen, can be seen please. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: What about inflation?]] I can still quote the subject of art, then I have dealt with the still open questions. Unfortunately, Mr Zinggl is not here – I would nevertheless like to point out several things in this context. Part 1: We have more expenses in the field of art, but at the same time we have missing expenses, for example: The removal of the contribution to the renovation of the Bregenz Festival House – it is completed – means 8 million less expenses – but at the same time the art budget is raised. That means, the nominal increase now is to increase by another 8 million. In addition, the focus comes in the form of empowerment for the Capital of Culture Linz 2009 as well as the increases in film promotion and basic remuneration. A final addition – I am really sorry that Mr Zinggl is not here – to the question of film institute. I really know the birth of the film institute well since the days in 1980 when it was established as a film funding fund. One thing is clear, ladies and gentlemen: The reserves provided for in the budget there were never funds parked in the film institute, formerly film funding funds, which were quite normal budgetary reserves. These reserves are now being activated in addition, not only directly for the promotion of the film, but – and I think this is a very, very clever proposal by the new Minister of Art – for other productions, for short and experimental films, for a number of other projects in the related area. We secure the amounts for which the reserves existed budgetaryly by taking it as a commitment of the federal government to cover grant commitments granted in the coming years. This means more for the film industry, because it has better secured the projects that go beyond a year, at the same time an increase in film funding in the year, third, an additional increase in the field of art promotion. I think that this example shows that we have made clear marks in areas which are perhaps not so significant, but in which the focus has to be placed on activation, and the new Federal Government has very, very well fulfilled what it has done, namely to give gas in the future areas. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e8599	Next, Mr Gaál. 4 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e8645	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mr Matznetter, Secretary of State, spoke in his budget speech about the “comprehensive security” provided by the 2007 budget. I'd think and give him the right. In terms of security, too, our policy focuses on finding comprehensive solutions to citizens' security. The security challenges have become more complex and comprehensive. The protection and security of the population and of each individual citizen must be ensured. People have a right not to become a cost factor, as in a company-led state. There should therefore be no savings in the area of security. [[Abg. Strache: But that happens!]] Saving security would be the wrong signal both inside and outside. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: This has already been announced!]] That is why we must also forget the rigorous savings rate over the past seven years, because the traditionally very high level of security in Austria was threatened. We are now taking a new path, a modern, forward-looking path – also in the area of security considerations. The present 2007 budget estimate is a forward-looking proposal, with very many new ideas and very many new thoughts. This will create the conditions for us to be able to work politically successfully in the future. You can be satisfied with the course of the budget talks. [[Abg. Oil: Well, yes!]] Of course, a certain degree of modesty is also needed, Mr Oellinger, since I am right in giving you, but I still believe that the financial resources are available, which can also present us as a reliable partner in Europe. Sufficient funds are available for the continuation of the 2010 federal reform, and, of course, assistance at the eastern border is also financially secured. [[Abg. Oillingers: Only if the Eurofighters don't come!]] The Austrian Federal Army is doing valuable work for peace and stability in the world. We are the world's second largest nation in terms of peace missions. It must not be forgotten that the use of the regions plagued by crises also gives people hope for a better life there. The budget of national defence guarantees – I have already mentioned it – that reform work can now also be speeded up in concrete and detailed terms. We are concerned with upgrading the force, of course we are dealing with slender structures in the area of the top management level and the elevated administrative area. The proposal is a solid basis for meeting the challenges together in the interests of and for the benefit of the security of Austria. – So let’s go this way together!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e8725	Mr Rasinger has now been informed of his speech; 4 minutes of his speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e8747	Madam President. Dear Members on the Government Bank! High house! Health care in Austria is a high goal, a relatively simple goal: to defend the world class. – This is often not as easy as we know about football. I haven't put the latte as high as the woman minister who says we have the world's best system, but I think we're glad we're among the best five. If we get better, of course it's great. The essential point in the health budget is that health care is a solidarity that cannot be achieved elsewhere; Solidarity between old and young, sick and healthy, rich and less rich. Why do I say that? – According to the latest figures, the number of uninsured persons has increased dramatically. There, the issue of health will play a practical role in the election campaign in that one tries to provide general insurance protection for all. – This will certainly not succeed; Arnold Schwarzenegger has announced this for California. And that the company Chrysler has to be sold has to do with the fact that on every Chrysler car almost $2,000 health insurance premium, and that is simply not financeable. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Mr. Colleague, I have not understood that now! Why does the car pay health insurance?]] This means that other countries have quite different and serious problems. George Bush promised free drugs for the aging Americans eight years ago – he couldn't stop it! In East Germany, it is now the case that about a thousand doctors cannot be employed; 18 000 doctors have left Germany. I do not think it is wise if Austrian doctors and doctors from Poland and Ukraine are there, because we are missing them. This shows us that the problems for Austria can be very serious in a few years. Since the two ministers responsible for research are sitting here today, I would like to say that research and medicine are really two siblings. We have the AKH, which is certainly one of the three most interesting clinics – and because I see colleagues Grünewald: Innsbruck also brings great achievements, it is not supposed to be a small one – but what bothers me is that I have heard that more than 800 researchers from Austria – and these are the best – are active in America, many of them in the medical field because they believe that in our country – with such high quality of life, where they would like to stay – they are not able to resuscitate research, to be sufficiently supported, and to see too few career opportunities. We've got to keep the best people, because top researchers, top doctors create a sog again. I am now saying this as a house doctor, who, of course, works at the lowest level, but we need the models above; this is important. In this sense, we will all strive to get closer to the goal. The health budget is certainly a step in the right direction and will keep us safe in the top league.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e8783	Next, Mrs Mag. Honey to speak. 5 minutes welcome. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e8805	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to say something in principle about a subject that played a certain role during the television debate, especially during the morning, on the subject of tax relief. It is important to me to stress that tax is taxing the poor and at risk of poverty. A million people in this country live in households that have to cope with an income below the poverty risk threshold. These people, for example, do not pay a wage tax. It is also true that they will probably not benefit directly from the abolition of the inheritance tax. And the demand for wealth taxation will not be particularly hot to these people. – Certainly not, because tax is taxing poor people. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] These people pay for it because tax relief reduces money – for example, less money for the health system, less money for the public education system, and less money for public transport. That is precisely the case, namely, that tax reliefs burden poor people, of which you are hopefully all aware when next time you talk very great about poverty reduction, social responsibility and almost in a breath promise tax reliefs or announce tax reliefs. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now on Chapter 63 of the budget proposal, specifically on labour market policy. Here are certainly some questions to ask. We are very pleased that the unemployment rate is falling, although this purely quantitative decline does not say anything about the quality of the newly created jobs. How many of these are poorly paid part-time jobs, how many are jobs in the low pay sectors? But, excuse me, I know that has nothing to do with federal policy; at least Minister Bartenstein wanted to make me aware of this when I addressed him in the Committee on Tourism to the poor working and income conditions in the hospitality industry. This has nothing to do with federal policy. - Good. The number of jobs is increasing and this leads to increasing revenue in the area of unemployment insurance, see budget. Good, but – and this is the question now –: Even if I count inflation on wage increases, it is not to be understood why you assume in this budget that unemployment insurance revenue will increase by 4.2 percent in 2007, still 2.1 percent in 2008, while employment growth is forecast at 1.8 percent in 2007 and 0.8 percent in 2008. So even if we take into account normal wage increases and inflation, I cannot understand these figures. Please, explain this to us on an occasion! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to stress something more, namely the funds for labour market policies, which represent the social democrats as these essential ‘red marks’ in the budget. – Red traces, traces, or maybe just like heels and grettes every now and then a little red crumb? Great is definitely being spoken of, even before, by State Secretary Matznetter, of €1 788 million, well over €1 billion, for labour market policy measures – but for what, please, is that accurate? On the one hand, we have the means of active labour market policy, i.e. these real skills measures. However, these will not even be increased by the inflation rate or even in 2008. That is, taking into account the inflation rate, they actually become even less. - A clear change of course? Well, okay, good. We have found an interesting trick, namely that the activating labour market policy, i.e. those measures which are clearly to be questioned from the point of view of sense, namely these job coachings, and above all the benefits of the people involved in action by the AMS, are included in the labour market policy measures. – And, of course, that's not serious, that's a trick, but you all know that. Good. Finally, I would like to mention the following because I have heard it more often this morning, especially from the Federal Chancellor – who is no longer here, of course, but perhaps he can be executed –: The Federal Chancellor has criticized him for hearing too few constructive amendments from us. – Therefore, here again for the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany of us, and I hope it will be addressed to him: We want more money for active labour market policies, we also want more money for climate protection, we want more money for education, we want more money for women's policy. And if you want another constructive proposal, specifically expenditure side: We find that the purchase of the Eurofighters is essential. [[Abg. Strache: And the current comes out of the socket!]] For further information and suggestions, we are still at your disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e8874	Mr Bösch spoke next. Requested time: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e8896	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! This morning, in the chapter on foreign policy, Mr Vice-Kanzler outlined the focus of his foreign policy and stated that Austria will actively participate in the European integration process. – Ladies and gentlemen, we will be critically accompanying this efforts of the Federal Government by the liberals, and we will remind you that if a draft Constitutional Treaty is re-issued, it will be subject to a new ratification and that in Austria we also want to have a referendum on a new European constitution, which is due to occur. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We will also, in particular, be reminding the SPÖ as the Federal Chancellor Party that during its time it has joined the European Union as an opposition party against Turkey's entry into the European Union. And we will draw their attention to the fact that, as a voter in the Councils of the European Union, they can now vote against the continuation of the accession negotiations with Turkey on the first occasion and ensure clear conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, we will also remind you that the Austrian people are taking action against an unlimited enlargement of the European Union and that we liberals will continue to represent it. Ladies and gentlemen, in the context of foreign policy, it is not only about commenting on these in about 388 million, which are a continuous budgetary development, but also about the foreign policy as such. That this is important has also shown the visa scandal. We know that there has been scandals in Austrian representations abroad in the unlimited allocation of visas and in the purchase of visas. It was very important for the Austrian National Council to deal with this scandal and on every occasion the Austrian Federal Government has pointed out that this scandal must be fought with all its forces. It is also about checking the intensity of the Austrian Republic's funding for international operations in future. Within the framework of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there are many elements of budgetary policy, including the budget headings that we have to pay for our foreign operations, including military foreign operations. It is also a matter of checking all international efforts for their sense of meaning. It will be necessary for us to review the international commitment of the Republic of Austria in the next few years after that, whether it is in the interest of the Austrian people. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. This is mainly about the war in Afghanistan, which, ladies and gentlemen, is developing very critically for the coalition forces there – a war that the Republic of Austria, in our view, has nothing to do with, a war from which we should actually stand out. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] This international commitment of the Republic of Austria, to which we liberals confess – quite, in principle – is to be checked exactly how it is to be reconciled with the interests of the Republic itself. Another aspect of foreign policy is development cooperation. Today, Mr. Vice-Chancellor has celebrated in the early days that we will also invest this 0.51 percent of gross domestic product for development aid. In principle, we advocate that developing countries be supported, but – and especially those in Africa – it is important to call for the political monitoring process of this development aid and to establish clear criteria. Ladies and gentlemen, before we allow Austrian funds to flow into development cooperation projects, the political environment in these countries must vote, and we must demand clear criteria here to use our resources there at all. In the field of foreign policy, we must note that the German army cannot consume the entire budget for international operations, which is intended for national defence. We have to ensure that the Austrian federal army remains a structure in its efforts and in its domestic commitments, especially in its domestic operations, in the context of domestic protection, in the case of disaster facilities, but my group colleague will still comment separately on this. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e8969	The next item is the report by Mr Dr. Einsamt. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e8990	Madam President. High house! Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! First of all, allow me a few words on foreign policy and then a few words on the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Point one, perhaps in response to my previous speaker Mr Bösch: What is currently under discussion is not Turkey's accession to the European Union. What is now and for the next ten years to discuss is the question of whether Turkey will be able to join the European Union by going through a reform process that would only make it capable of doing so. The question of whether to join will be decided both in Turkey and in us. I just think that the process until then is extremely useful to achieve that Turkey is changing in a way that is in our interest. [[Abg. Strache: Again without a referendum! Again against the Austrian population!]] Mr Strache, the question of referendum is, as far as I remember, contained in the Coalition Agreement. Second point: Constitution. There is no doubt that when the text changes, it needs to be re-ratified. You don't have to ask for that every time, that's self-evident. The other question is whether it is really a wise decision in a referendum to decide whether citizens prefer to have the 350 pages of text, which is today the legal basis of the EU, or the 350 pages of text that tomorrow is the legal basis of the EU. This comparison of texts is perhaps acceptable to you and to this House, but not to every individual citizen; perhaps you too, Mr Strache, will learn it. [[Abg. Strache: In principle, it is about whether we want to give up our Austrian constitution or not! That's why, Mr. One! We do not want to give up our constitution! That's what we need to ask the population!]] In the context of time, let me say a third and provisionally last: We are glad that Mrs Foreign Minister has taken the opportunity to invite the new Palestinian Foreign Minister; we are also pleased that he has accepted this invitation. We believe that after the Arab League summit, which has just taken place, and also after the formation of the new government of the Palestinians of national unity, there is a real opportunity to bring the peace process back into being. So we are convinced that it is necessary to vote on the major decisions within the EU, so it is necessary that countries such as Austria also act independently, because it is a question of listening in a fine manner, where there may be ways, and because it is also necessary to talk to those who have not been found worthy of discussions in recent times. We need to know more about this process, and we need to create our foundations at all in order to be able to contribute competently to a peace process at European level too. Therefore: Acknowledging this path, we support it, we think it is right. Let me say a few short words about the budget. The budget has seen a slight increase compared to 2005 – and this is the reference scale, since last year, due to the Presidency, it was an increased budget. We think it would have been good, it would have been more, and we believe that it will also be necessary to significantly increase it in the following years. We have a nominal, about constant staff budget, but a reduction in staff levels to the representative authorities. - We think that's risky. We would like to see staff increased to the representative authorities, because the tasks to be carried out there are only more difficult to detect with the existing staff. In the coalition negotiations, we also called for increased personnel numbers to be increased, in particular in the consular area, in order to exclude precisely the same problems as they had in the field of visas, through appropriate human resources. We hope that action will be taken in this respect. We ask ourselves – and this is a question to you, Mr State Secretary – why the expenses for international conferences and for representation in the two budget years that are coming now are rising so much, whether it is related to the application for a seat in the Security Council or if it has other reasons. And we think that in the area of development cooperation, the increase by €5 million has been too small. We understand yesterday's announcement by the Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance, so that the actual intention of the increase is only in the years after that. But then it has to fail accordingly – what we stand for.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e9052	The next item is the report by Mr Grossruck. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e9074	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! The budget is the basis for this government's concrete policy, and this budget is future-looking. – Today, in the early days and yesterday, our Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance called it a general assessment of this budget. I think you can agree calmly. We have the general debate on the budget today, if I may say so; in the second reading, it is likely that the individual chapters will be dealt with in more detail. I am convinced that this budget is a future budget – it also has to do with the origin of our Minister for Finance: He is not only Austrian, he is also Upper Austrian. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] He's rooted in his home, he's grounded, and I think he's used to making nails with heads, as we do in Upper Austria. That is why, despite all the criticism that has come oppositionally and also coalitionally today, I am optimistic that this budget not only holds, but is also an important policy for the future. As mayor, I am also pleased that flood protection will be given a vital importance here, also a teaching, because I think it will be very important to strengthen these measures in the future due to climate change. We all know and experience shows that flood protection is cheaper than solving the damage caused by a flood. I am at the next point I would like to make, the climate debate. Here we are, I think, all in a boat. I am pleased that the climate report of the Minister for the Environment contains the thermal renovation of the buildings. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think we should all see that we are implementing this quickly, because this is not only an essential contribution to reducing CO2 emissions, but also, I say, a social contribution to reducing operating costs. I believe that we should also make sure that all the public buildings that are being built are built in a low energy or passive manner, and perhaps even legally. I should like to express my full support for what Dr. One has said. I think that we can only underline what enlargement is about to do. No one in Austria wants to open up a limitless one, but I believe that we must also show prospects to the peoples of the Balkans, so that they can go on the path to Europe. When we tell them: You have no chance at all, dear Serbia, dear Albania, dear Croatia and so on, that you can join the European Union once!, then they will not try to make reforms that are in all our interests, but especially in the interests of a European peace project, which is indeed the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, I am coming to the end. I have initially praised our Minister of Finance, of course I would also like to praise his predecessor. But one wanted to measure Minister of Finance Molterer whether he would be able to step into the footsteps of his predecessor, who could very well present himself. I'd like to end this with a four-liner: Once a wise man said: Rarely does something better! The opposite is proven today’, Our Willi was praised!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e9153	The next item is the speech by Mrs Zwerschitz. 5 minutes welcome. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e9174	High house! Madam President. In the last two days, we have heard a lot about the future, about how much is being invested in the future, about innovation, about what should not go on in the country. As a youth spokesperson of the Greens, of course, I have considered how it looks in the field of children and young people – I have not found a lot of future. Even if it is constantly suggested that we invest a lot in education, for how did Mr Molterer say so well? –: Education policy is local policy!, does not find itself much of it in the educational budget, even though Mr Matznetter today claimed the opposite. With 1.5 percent increase in the teacher budget, we will not take particularly big steps. Unfortunately, there is less room in Austria for children and young people; in our environment there is less and less, but of course also in this budget. The youth organisations get a little less money – well, don't do anything, is not a problem, are only young people! – the financial resources for labour market policies are being increased, but rather insignificant, and more and more young people are falling through the rust these days. I don't know if you've ever been to the work office in the Neubaugasse, it's the only one who specializes in caring for young people – about 11,600 young people looking for jobs that have been lost somewhere on this educational path, who don't know exactly how they should get themselves for their lives in the future. The staff stand there is just 36. These are 15 minutes per youth, interrupted by people who come in and ask for something, telephone calls et cetera. Working with these young people is hardly possible. The interface between school and profession is increasingly proving to be a trap for many young people. Our school system is no longer capable of preparing young people to work. And what's in the budget? - Nothing! Absolutely nothing! No special youth policy measures. I cannot understand why Mrs. Grossmann has claimed that so much is positive in child and youth work. For example, I looked at the visiting companion – slightly increased. It is apparently not a matter of perhaps needing a little more support for the children and young people in the present time of divorce. Once again, something didn't go out! We've already talked about the teachers' posts. We're talking about location policy. We are talking about how to promote the economy. However, we see less and less how many young people today have serious problems. I do not think I need to remind you that in the UNICEF study, which came out a few weeks ago, every fifth youth in Europe is at risk of poverty. That's a shame, otherwise I can't say it. This also applies to Austria: There are also more and more young people in Austria who are not insured themselves. – There is no measure in this budget either! As one of my previous speakers said, Interestingly, the increases in the youth budget can be found at the Youth Hostel Association and at the Youth Hostel. This will probably benefit some young people, but certainly not those who would need it most. I call on this government to: If you already say in numerous speeches that we are there for young people if this electoral age reduction is to come and now in all kinds of political speeches is finally discovered that the young people are an important client and that you have to do something in this area, then prove this, please, also with numbers! You know very well that everything is different beautification attempts, any flat explanations. I am very glad that many young people are interested in politics so much that they will see through it closely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e9233	The next item is Mr Themessl. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e9254	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, the number one thing you want to be, Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance said yesterday in his budget speech. [[Abg. Lentsch: The country!]] Yeah, yeah. But he has not stated in what period and in what discipline. In terms of economic policy, a realistic goal should be set. We'd be glad if we'd be among the best five. But you know, if you think about years, that you're the best and constantly compare to the worse, then it's easy, isn't it? [[Call the ÖVP: You were there!]] If you talk to yourself permanently, day and night, you are better than Germany, better than France, better than Italy, but forget that there are other, substantially better ones! I can already contribute to your healing process. If you want to be healed, listen to me! There are countries around Austria in the EU that are much better in terms of economic policy than we are: Sweden, Denmark, the Netherlands, Ireland and many others. Do you know what you've done in recent years? – As good as nothing! They have achieved a moderate average in the economy of what would have been possible. In 2004, the global economy started to rise and, of course, the economic engine was reintroduced. What did you do about it? – A moderate mean. For three years the economy has been booming, we have an economic growth of 3 percent and partly above – Sweden as a preferred country and Denmark are between 4 and 5 percent, you know, but you probably have forgotten that because you are always comparing yourself with Germany, which is admittedly worse than we are. - That's your big problem. Another thing: If you compare the unemployment rates associated with the economic upturn with those in the best countries in Europe, you will find that in Sweden, Denmark, Ireland and also in the Netherlands, unemployment rates are significantly below 4 percent. But you also know that in Austria, if you calculate the AMS numbers – you will not claim that people who are in AMS re-training courses will cost us nothing but bring money; there you are on the wrong, on the wood road; therefore you have to calculate them – the unemployment rate remains at 5.5 to 6 percent. – This is reality. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber.]] If we are now responding to your election promises – both from the red and from your side – you will find that you have done absolutely nothing for small and medium-sized enterprises, for the small and medium-sized enterprises. We remain above the EU average with regard to additional labour costs. By increasing the health insurance contributions, including the service provider's share, you have even increased these wage costs! You raised the mineral oil tax. You burden the fans by increasing the truck toll – do you know that this is between €2 500 and €3,000 per truck and €3 000 per year? What do you think the costs are? – In all articles of daily need, that is, everyone here in this house and all who pass by outside. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Everything's getting more expensive – you're to blame for it. Do you know what you've achieved with your budget? – The “Kronen Zeitung” has meant it for Vienna, but it applies to all of Austria: They are attacking the middle class – the middle class, which is a sustainable strengthening and support for our economy and secures more than two thirds of Austrian jobs! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e9313	Mrs Bayr is now speaking. 4 minutes welcome. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e9334	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! To stop climate warming, to deal with the effects that the current climate warming has already created, and sustainable global development are probably three of the future topics that we have to face. Austria also presents itself to them. With the €500 million we are teaching climate funds, we want to help technology from the day after. We will try to implement the best-practice models of tomorrow. This energy and climate protection fund will certainly also help achieve positive job effects. In this whole complex of climate policy, of course, we know that the area of transport is one that is particularly to be processed, because in recent years the CO2 numbers have been particularly high. I think that the €6 billion of investment in the rails will be the climate protection project of this legislative period. It must be our aim to increase public transport, make it more comfortable and reliable – simply to offer a real alternative and really move people to change from motorized individual traffic to rail. I think that increasing the tax on mineral oil is a step towards ecologizing the tax system, and the proportions that will benefit countries from the higher tax rate will also invest in the expansion of public passenger transport and thus try to improve the modal split, says the proportion of those moving through public transport. In reality, this is a very, very great opportunity, as we can manage our CO2 emissions. But – I mentioned it at the outset – we will also have to break our heads about how we deal with the effects of the greenhouse effect, global warming, which is already there. We will also have to deal with the effects politically. That in this context, for example, flood protection is now increased by €37 million in both years is certainly a correct step in the right direction. I very much hope that we can implement these adaptation measures together very ecologically and not only in the sense of flood protection of buildings, of things, of goods, but also really to protect nature. Let me also say something about development cooperation: I am quite confident that with the 2007/2008 budgets, we are expected to move on the path towards 0.51 percent of GNI by 2010 – at least mathematically, taking into account the debt we will make. This is technically all right, but politically it does not make me really happy that we are only very moderate in increasing the designable development cooperation. However, I think that the budget proposal, which is available, is certainly not the end of the flag rod, but, quite the contrary, we now have to combine forces for two years to create additional sources of money for development cooperation, mobilise it and then invest it in accordance with the international criteria, to create the instruments for that. Above all, in the next two years – in fact only in the next one and a half years – we will have to carry out intensive lobby work, so that we can achieve a real increase in at least the 2009 budget in the area of designable development cooperation – both bilateral and multilateral – in order to achieve not only the 2010 stage target but above all the 2015 target, where we have committed ourselves internationally to spending 0.7 percent of the gross national income for development cooperation. I am sure that we will work together to make an offensive anti-armed, egalitarian, coherent and sustainable development policy, and I am looking forward to working together. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e9395	Next, Mr Kößl. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e9416	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! This double budget for 2007 and 2008 makes police officers very optimistic about the future. It is a very good budget, and I congratulate Mr Finanzminister and, above all, our Federal Minister for this budget. It shows the sense of responsibility of the Vice Chancellor and the Minister of the Interior in the field of security. This budget ensures that the good security work of recent years can continue and that the major challenges we are facing – I am thinking, for example, of the 2008 European Championships – but of course also the changes in the Schengen area, at the external border, can be met. It is therefore very important that the budget of this area is true. With this budget, it is also possible to continue the structural improvements that we started a few years ago. It is quite, very important that further investments take place in the police sector, especially in the field of technical equipment, in the IT sector, for example, but we also need to continue to modernise the service sector. [[Abg. Street: More staff!]] - Wait, Mr. Strache, we're still on it! Look out a little, you don't have to talk in between! So we know what we're talking about! [[Abg. Street: More staff!]] – We need to see that modernisation in the area of vehicles and services continues to be of the same importance. Because I spoke to the European Championships: It is very important that they become a sporting highlight and not a violent highlight. That is why we have a massive demand for Members – you too, Mr Strache! – to create the legal framework here in this House so that the security forces can work efficiently outside, on-site. [[Abg. Strache: But arresting citizens on suspicion, it doesn't play! Incarcerated by suspicions of innocent citizens, it doesn't play!]] Another thing – because we addressed the staff – is: I can only tell you one thing: There are 31 800 staff of the Ministry of the Interior for the Security of the Population available, which are around 250 more than in the 2006 establishment plan, and I am sure... – No, in the field of foreign service. [[Abg. Street: 3,000 officials have been missing since 1999! 3 000 less!]] You didn't watch that! There are 2 000 more officials in the field than in 1999! [[Abg. Street: 3,000 executive officials since 1999 less!]] Look! You probably don't really know, I have to say that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: You believe your wrong numbers!]] It is really a very, very good budget for the field of interiors. In any case, this budget ensures the safety of the population. – I congratulate you, Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e9525	Mrs Mag (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Magnette for Lunacek. 5 minutes welcome. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e9546	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I will deal with Chapter 20, Externally. If I look at what is actually necessary today, what I expect from Austrian foreign policy and European policy, which was also highlighted by the change of name on the ‘Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs’, I must say: For example, in the European area, Austria is also strongly committed to this, not just saying: We want to continue to work on the Constitutional Treaty! that Austria is also deeply concerned about the fact that it will exist – with a Social Pact in it, with the Charter of Fundamental Rights in it, with the involvement of Parliaments, the European Parliament and the national parliaments, with civil society and with a consultative referendum at the end. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That would be necessary, but for this it also needs staff; to that point I will come later. Other topics: South-East Europe, the relationship with Turkey, the Middle East, but also the issue of development policy, that is, everything in the traditional name of the countries of Africa, Asia and Latin America – that is all around the world, where Austria also has international responsibility. I was amazed yesterday at the words of Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance in his budget speech. For the first time, the word “Europe” is in relation to transport – good. On Europe itself and on foreign policy, there are total words and eleven lines in the entire budget speech! That might have been two minutes of the entire budget speech, not anymore! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ferdinand Maier.]] If this is symbolic of the importance of foreign policy, but also of European policy in the Federal Government, I can only say: Good night! It does not look good for Austrian foreign policy, for European policy and also for development policy! To the budget: The composition – you have all seen – of which ministries get how much money shows that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is at all the final light. It gets even less than the Ministry of Defence gets in addition, for the Eurofighters, namely only € 388 million. That is 10 million less than last year – I know that the EU Presidency was there, but if you know the demands in Europe's policy, foreign policy and development policy, you can only say that is crazy! I really cannot understand – now to my colleagues in SPÖ and to German Chancellor Gusenbauer, also to State Secretary Silhavy – how someone like the Federal Chancellor, who has been active in the Socialist International in his political past, has been involved in development policy, was chairman of the Development Policy Subcommittee of this House, which can accept this. If the Foreign Minister is unable to enforce himself, at least the Federal Chancellor would have to say: For this ministry, which is now called the “Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs” and which has to take up these areas, more money is needed! – I don't understand, I probably won't understand either. Unfortunately, the beautiful words that come from representatives of the SPÖ are too few! As exactly as the budget does, Mr One has already said. Although the establishment plan states that there are 43 more officials, there are also in it – if you look more closely at it – that there will be around 20 percent fewer staff and officials in both the central and the representative authorities, 83 per year! Do you really think that is appropriate for Austrian foreign policy, European policy and development policy? – I cannot imagine how some of you who are close to this issue can represent it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber.]] I do not see the increase in the consular area, which is also found in the government programme, either in this budget; it may be included under the effort chapter, where, I believe, 15 million are used annually and it is in the text, for the sur-place staff on the ground. Perhaps that is it, but an actual strengthening of the Foreign Ministry is really not that! It is similar in the field of development policy, development cooperation. Vice-chanc Molterer was in his sermon yesterday, so it worked, kindly said: Yes, we will create the 0.51 percent by 2010! However, he did not say how, and that does not stand in his budget. € 5 million for the designable development cooperation, for the development agency, that is – apologise for this expression – micky. [[Call the ÖVP: Order call!]] Is this perhaps the money – that is a question that I address here to the non-existent representation of the Foreign Ministry, Minister or State Secretary – which is intended for the Security Council candidate, for projects or gifts for countries that wish to vote willingly? There is no own budget for the Security Council candidate either. Where the money will then come from, we may be able to clarify once in committee. A total of around €200 million a year would have to be spent to reach this 0.51 percent of gross national income by 2010. This is made up at EU level, and when it is not achieved, there will be such a thing as financial sanctions against Austria. For 2007, decommissionings amounting to only around €30 million are planned. How do you want to get to this budget? No one – including the committee – could say that to me. If the money is not provided for this year in the budget and not for next year, this means about 400 million per year for the years 2009 and 2010. How do you want to take this? We have long been demanding a concrete level plan, how this should be done. Just to say: We're going to do that, and we're building on that we're doing it!, that's like a fog lamp, we're sorry, it doesn't bring it! We need concrete figures, otherwise Austria – and Austria is one of the richest countries in this world – will not meet this international responsibility. This is not just micky, but it is simply unworthy of a country like Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e9624	Next, Mr Aspock. 5 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e9645	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Today, if one has followed the debates, in particular those of the representatives of the government parties or the government, it has been found: It has always been said in this debate: We're the best, second best, fifth best! – So you always like to address such statistics. I have the impression that we are in all cases in a point world champion: World champion in the beautiful speech as far as the ÖVP is concerned – and the SPÖ has to learn it again! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is said that small incomes are served so well on the employee and worker side and small entrepreneurs. I took along a few examples to show how that really looks. A worker wants a monthly wage of 1 180 € gross. Let's see what the Moloch State is doing in this case: The service provider pays once 1 547,80 €. Through social security, service contributions et cetera, 367,80 € are lost, so that we land at the gross amount of 1 180 €. But not enough, now this employee also pays wage tax and social security. What the hell? 230,44 € are gone. Now you remain a net amount of €949,56. If you think that the state's abcassing is over now, you've been fooled. If this employee takes this €949,56 in order to consume different things of daily life – car and such must not be included, then one can assume from an average turnover tax rate of 15 percent – then a net purchasing power of € 1 547.80 remains out of an effort of €825.70. [[Abg. May. Lapp: Where did you learn to count?]] No, that is expected of wage accounting, Mrs Colleague, reliable. [[Abg. Heinzl: Will depend on the FPÖ!]] Let me give you the next example. Let's make the employees a little more, namely 2 500 € gross. [[Call to the SPÖ: Did Mr Rosenstingl expect that?]] [[Abg. Krainer: Did Mr. Rosenstingl expect that?]] – No, that was not what Mr Rosenstingl expected, but it was a wage accounting, from a recognised company, which is one of my clients. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] At a gross salary, with an effort of €3 284.25, a net wage of €1 618 is calculated again. If you then accept the sales tax with an average of 15 percent, then we land at € 1 407.38. By the way: Interesting are also the percentages, ladies and gentlemen! Our government is so generously dealing with such small earners as the first and small and medium-sized enterprises that in the first example, these deductions, which I mentioned earlier, represent 46.72 percent of the amount originally spent. In the second example, it is 55.80 percent, and in a third example, estimated at €5,000, it is 57.78 percent. I see the time will be very short. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: She's all right!]] I can therefore come to the conclusion and repeat a call for the government, which is very essential to us liberals and which has already been raised by previous speakers from my group. Ladies and gentlemen, set striking family-political accents that prevent the extinction of the Austrian population in this country and ensure the survival of our culture, customs and customs! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e9744	Mr Eder. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. 4 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e9765	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Mr Aspöck, first of all I'm not afraid we're dying. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosary.]] Secondly, I think it can already be said that in the last seven years, the Freedom Party has – however – co-regulated, and there are just as low wages as you have described them now. Now we have to see that it's going to be better again! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this coalition, we will see to it that the wages of the working people will again be fairer than has been the case during your government participation. [[Abg. Dr. Aspock: The social partners...!]] You can be sure of that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, it is not always easy, of course, to give a 65th good speech after already 64 speeches which have been made here. But I will nevertheless try to note some of the things I believe it is remarkable and that it should be said today on the occasion of the budget debate, the first reading to the budget. I believe that we can basically say to the budget that it is safe to actively shape the future in Austria. In particular, there will also be an area which I am working on in particular, namely the area of infrastructure, which will play a very important role. The fact that the infrastructure plays this role in the right direction is already evidenced by the fact that, in the case of road/rail, the focus has been placed on investment in the rail with 6.4 billion, which has already been said today. 4.6 billion for the road is also needed in order to further finance gaps, remaining expansion routes, tunnel safety et cetera. It has not yet been said – but I mention it anyway – that the Brenner Base Tunnel must not and should not be forgotten. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Reheis and Mr Mag. Worm.]] There should be special funding outside the budget for this purpose. I would have liked to know – now also in a government group – how to do the whole thing. It will certainly be an interesting task, but I am sure that this task will not be possible in Austria alone, but it will also be necessary to create appropriate framework conditions for the European Union and to deal with our neighbouring countries Germany and Italy, which are related to it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we must be aware – and in Vienna we are already sure that freight traffic will increase and already grow due to the enlargement of the EU. In Vienna, we have already recorded up to 40 percent increase in freight traffic since EU enlargement. This is only the beginning, however, because experts expect up to 70 percent increase in freight traffic by 2011/2012 in the final effect. Therefore, it is a very important task for us – and this is now also this budget approach – to bring only this increase in freight traffic on the rails or on shipping, because if this were to remain on the road, we would be hopelessly suffocating in road traffic. A signal also towards shipping has already been set by the city of Vienna with an investment in the Vienna port, which will be enormously expanded, so that transfer points can also be made possible via Donau-Hafen-Schiene-Straße. These are particularly important priorities to be seen here. Furthermore, the budget clearly and clearly sets the emphasis in the direction of Bahn: Completion of the West Railway, four-track extension of the West Railway in substantial parts. One important question is the North-South connection. Here I'm not going to say one thing: If the coral tunnel is now in the ÖBB framework programme, then the Semmering tunnel must also be started at a time when both tunnels will be finished at the same time as possible. Because only then does the tunnel make sense. I believe that this is a transport policy statement that should be taken seriously and that we need to think about. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it has already been said today: Roads are our life veins, railways are our life veins, we need this infrastructure for our economic location Austria. There is much to be said about energy policy, as it is about the roads for electricity. A 380 kV line has now been legally released, resulting in an investment by the association in the corresponding power plants. We can see how quickly action can be taken here by legally implementing infrastructure projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e9835	Next, Mr Haubner. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e9856	Madam President. Mr. Minister! It is a pleasure to treat the sport chapter of my group as a sports speaker. I think this is where the successful path has continued over the past seven years. If you start from 1999, you can see that sports promotion has doubled over the last seven years. This is a real signal for more exercise and more health in our country. It is important that the world's most important side-by-side issue has the monetary equipment to ensure that we can successfully implement our projects in the near future. It is very important that the projects in top-level sports, especially in disabled sports and health, women and youth sports, receive the financial equipment necessary for good work in the clubs. In the new Federal estimates 2007 and 2008 the special federal sport promotion is targeted at € 53 million. The lotteries make it possible that we can expect 60 million € this year. These 60 million are directly invested in sports, and this money, this more money for sports also brings more movement for Austria. The 12 300 associations in Austria with their approximately 300,000 volunteers form the backbone of Austrian sport. These associations are organized in umbrella and professional associations. I would also like to express my thanks to the volunteer officials and exercise directors. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The money for these projects is well spent. Especially attic associations, all of them, do excellent work here. The Sports Union has just launched the project “UGOTCHI” together with the State Secretariat for Sport and the ORF. 40 000 people's school children have applied for this project in 1 700 school classes throughout Austria within a few weeks. They are animated to exercise, and they are also promoted with a view to healthy nutrition. But it is also important that we invest money in top sports. Today it has proved Markus Rogan again: third place in Melbourne. Of course also in terms: cordial congratulations to Australia! [[Complementary with ÖVP, SPÖ, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Another focus is our sports major events. Here, the Olympic application of Salzburg is very important – as a Salzburgian I am of course particularly pleased, and Peter Wittmann also supports it – this one has a special gift of €1.6 million. This is once again a real motivating boost for the application, and I hope that we will be on 4. ==References====External links== A major challenge is the football EURO. I think that we – the Security Minister is behind me – can not only perform successful, but also safe games. [[towards Federal Minister Platter]] In this respect, I conclude by saying: The costs in the East, see Vienna with the increase in the ‘Open’; the best in the West, see Minister Platter! - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e9928	Mr Pirklhuber spoke next. 5 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e9950	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of the debate, detailed critical comments have already been made. I would remind you that my last colleague, Mr Lunacek, has clearly addressed the area of development policy, given today's fair trade information day here in the house. I think many of the colleagues have attended this event. This is a very important indication that it is also important in the seemingly smaller policy areas to be credible and forward-looking. In this context, I would like to begin with a quote from Joseph Stiglitz, the Nobel Prize winner. He writes in his last book: The rules of world trade determine living conditions throughout the planet and influence the economic development of all countries, from Azerbaijan to Cyprus. - Quote. Yeah, in itself, a stand set that can only be nodded to. What can this be called a budget debate? Firstly, let me make these general remarks here, from my point of view, it is right to see budgetary policy a little in the European context. I believe that this may also be the opportunity to see changes and discuss prospects. Finally, in view of a globalised economic policy in recent decades, the national scope for action has not been raised. The question is therefore: How big are these spaces? – We also need to make a clear comparison with neighbouring countries, not only with Germany, as in recent years upland, but also with all EU Member States. We have done the same in education policy, and of course we are also doing so in budgetary policy. If I see that Denmark currently has an unemployment rate below 4 per cent, while at the same time generating budget surpluses, it is a state that can be used to balance our economic policy and our budgetary policy. Why? – Firstly, Denmark has a similar size and, interestingly, a similar settlement structure. If you compare it, it is also rural/urban similar to Austria structured. But if you look more closely, you can see that one in Denmark is quite different: The socio-political discourse is at a different level. This is exactly the challenge we are facing now. It is a question of changing values, it is first and foremost a question of the appropriate strategies and values that we feel committed to. In this context, I recall one of our, so to speak, cross-party lip confessions – I deliberately say: Lip confession – with regard to real policy in Austria: the concept of sustainability. At all levels, from social sustainability to climate challenges to budgetary sustainability – all these are areas that need to be knocked out. Mr Bundeskanzler out of service Schüssel – that is what I am saying in this case, because you have been responsible for this policy in recent years – we are now on the question of whether this double budget is really a fresh start. From our point of view, we can clearly say no in one point. Why? – Although it is political and budgetary policy to perceive the aspect of taxation – taxes ultimately means forms – in this budget speech by Vice-chanc Molterer it has become quite clear that the tax rate should be further reduced. At the same time, the budget deficit is to be reduced. It's just that you don't have a real margin with such a vocal movement. One does not have the room to develop the new future concepts, so your concrete measures remain very, very modest, ladies and gentlemen on the government bank. This is a pity because there is too little to be done for the risk of poverty in particular. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Against the danger of poverty!]] It is also about the responsibility of Austria in Central and Eastern Europe. I take here as an example only our direct investment from Slovenia to Romania. That's a success story, not a question. But what are we doing in these countries in the social field, in the cultural field, in order to take real responsibility? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A key word for me is the question: What measures do we take to strengthen social capital in Austria? What instruments are used to strengthen civil society in order to restore collective action and solidarity? The common good orientation is the challenge! Only on the basis of such appreciation can we expect the citizen and the citizen to accept a corresponding tax rate. That is what we are at the point of the entire inheritance tax debate. It would have been the alternative, rather than saying, to leave with it!, rather to say: yes, it is right and necessary to take the funds of the foundation, which are currently almost tax-free or tax-free, back into responsibility! A proposal could have been that at least non-profit activities should be promoted by foundations, in the way that minimum shares should be set for foundations, in order to promote the general well-being in Austria, the institutions can be financed, social, environmental and economically innovative projects can be promoted. Yesterday, the Vice-Chancellor referred very much to two things, on the one hand to the willingness to do so. This is, of course, necessary, but it is not the only good we have to think about. The second thing that was a central point for him is: There is a counter-productive debate and harm to us, and investors are welcome in Austria. – This is actually the announcement of a neoliberal course, as we know it up land. There you just have to say quite clearly: There would have been a change of course here. This one didn't succeed. It is a slow departure from the neoliberal economic strategy, and it remains to be hoped that the detailed questions – which are often not clarified, I remind you of the many working groups, I remember that there are many headlines in the government programme – through parliamentaryism there and there, better solutions than it has previously been in this budget. Finally, I would like to address the agricultural budget because the agricultural budget shows how much of it is already European policy: The agricultural budget is almost 60 per cent of the European Union's resources! EU funds are therefore at the heart of agricultural policy, and it is seen that an agricultural debate in Austria is always a debate on Europe. [[Abg. Dr. One: Right!]] That's right, colleague. Then, of course, the question arises: How are these resources used in detail? – There is actually the nail sample in front of us, the nail sample because there will be some changes here. We will be able to discuss this in detail in the next debates. From our point of view, as has been said, your double budget is not ambitious and rather focused on maintaining the status quo. We would prefer to make the expansion of the future projects more offensive, and unfortunately this has not happened.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e10010	Next, Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e10032	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I allow myself to come from the general to the special. A general treasure of memory at the beginning of the day leads us to the remarks of Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap, who said: This is such a great budget, such a grand execution in the budget speech, that it will be terrible for the opposition delegates to find something that could be critical of it. [[Abg. Krainer: Has been true too!]] That's not quite the way it is! And it does not even need the effort of the opposition representatives, but it is always useful to look beyond their own garden fence. I invite you to consider, for example, the “New Zurich Newspaper” of today, where in the middle of the remarks under the heading “Holle Summonings” is the following: “In a budgetary speech, the reality was so beautiful with semantic tricks as this time by Finance Minister and ÖVP Chief Wilhelm Molterer. What is the point of the Stakkato's allegations that financial policy must be generation-friendly, that expenditure should not be higher than revenue in the long term if, in both the 2007 and 2008 estimates, "despite excessive tax revenue and on full tours of ongoing economic trends, deficits continue to be identified according to Maastricht (...)? [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Molterer's right!]] The Minister of Finance, however, goes one step further, even claiming that the government ‘debts the country’. As a reason, a rhetorical pocket player trick must be maintained, but Molterer interprets the decrease in the government debt ratio to 59.9% (...) as “debt” – although not debt decreases, but revenue increases more than expenditure.” So far as the view of the serious foreign country to the domestic in the form of the budget structure. – Now for the most part: If you allow me, I will deal briefly with the chapters of national defence and justice. It is already true that we seem to have a certain higher share of the budget for national defence. However, it is camouflaged that from 2007 onwards and following the Eurofighter share will become effective for the national defence budget. Thus we are back down from the proud tree of knowledge: There is no more for national defence than, rounded, 0.7 percent of GDP. Mr Gaál referred very, very correctly to the importance for the general state as regards security policy and the arrangements for the German army. However, a look at the budget speech shows that the German army is no longer worth more than six lines of the entire work that has been added to us. On the part of the Freedom Party, we demand that the often conjured findings and promises of implementation be settled from the outcome of the Federal Hero-Reform Commission. This report, led by President Zilk, has drawn up a final report calling for 1 percent of GDP as an essential element of the success of the reform, and this is by no means to be seen. We therefore call for at least 0.8 percent to be raised here, so that we finally have to land on the ordinary approach of 1 percent. We also demand that all additional orders from the Federal Government, in particular foreign operations, be covered by special funding. In addition, the state’s state’s state of affairs in front of its own children serving the federal army would require that the completely ruined vehicle park be renewed as quickly as possible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As a result of the reform, the militia is heavily decimated and extremely uncertain. In the view of individual constitutional thinkers, there is almost already a violation of the provision of Article 79(1). 1 Federal Constitutional Act, which provides for an establishment of the state defence in accordance with the principles of the military. The obligation to obey – thank God that is not disputed in the majority today – is to be maintained. But for ground defenses, it must be borne in mind that a mob arrangement without troop training can only be useful for a maximum of three years, so that a lack in this function entails an destruction of valuable know-how acquired by the present-day servants. A look at the judicial chapter: I would ask you to note that it is correct that € 1.040 billion of expenditure is estimated for this budget, but a small note: Very little attention is paid to the fact that justice is one of the branches of the Austrian state that finance itself to an extremely high proportion. There are revenues of € 745 million; that is, the net effort is actually not more than € 300 million, raised above the thumb. I believe that this is actually a very modest approach, considering that justice is the third pillar of state violence. Now another bridge to the aspect of security: It concerns all of us – and Mrs. Berger, in several correct remarks, referred to it – that a wonderful point is the number of prisoners, the overburden, the arrangements to be made, and the fact that the staff situation of the judicial staff is a disaster. I do not see – and I acknowledge, of course, speaking under parenthesis, that it is so that every single minister, with the central body, namely the Minister of Finance, must make a hard effort to make shares, under this premise, that it is not worth the State to make minimal efforts for human resources, for an acceptable personnel situation in justice. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] These efforts would not be so high that this investment will not be carried out on bending and breaking and that, in view of the relatively modest net expenditure from the State budget of justice for the security of all Austrian citizens – because there is no lack of the burden structure in the detention centres – the necessary will not be given. Summary: There is no reason to rejoice over the budget, and much will need to be done to meet appropriate demands from all citizens of the country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e10097	Next, Mr Reheis. 2 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e10118	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! After the traffic-political mourning and stagnation in the transport policy field in the past, a new momentum has really occurred – this is today on this budget. This new swing has a name: His name is Werner Faymann. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am very glad that our new Federal Minister has really put the social-democratic manuscript in transport policy into figures. You can read it out of this budget. As a Tyrolean, I am of course very glad that massive funds will flow for the realization of railway and road projects in our federal state: By 2012 it is €2.5 billion, which is a significant share! Especially – and this is important for the whole of Austria – there is now for the first time a realistic order, a framework plan for ÖBB and ASFINAG plans for the future. This is also economically important for workers – not only the railway projects, the infrastructure, the construction measures: The 100 000 jobs are still being secured. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For Tyrol itself, I think, it is very important to keep the engine running, to stick to the Brenner Base Tunnel and to continue the negotiations with the EU, with Italy and with Germany massively. I am very confident because Minister Platter is also a Tyrolean in the government, and Minister Faymann will be aware that this problem will also be dealt with in a massive way. I am particularly grateful for my region for the fact that the realization and the implementation of the second tube of the Roppener Tunnel continues so fast and that the Tschirgant Tunnel will be realized above all, with the expected beginning of 2011. The environmental impact assessment is currently under way, and this plan provides for a realistic start-up and a start-up. Transport policy, infrastructure policy is a real prospect for the future: More money is spent on the road and on the rails, and particularly for us Tyroleans, who are more than plagued by traffic, are thus also put in place appropriate measures for calming down. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e10176	The next item is Mrs Lentsch's speech. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e10198	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all, I should like to congratulate the Minister of Finance for his excellent budget speech yesterday, but also for the budget that has been quickly drawn up. I think all of Austria was happy to see him create a double budget in such a short time. Of course, I also congratulate the head of the department, the officials, for also the Ministries must have been well prepared. I really can't remember that sometime in such a short time, a double budget was created. This budget has not only been created quickly, it is also a good budget because it sets the right priorities: for more jobs, for more research, for better training of our youth, for savings in the administrative field and for social cohesion in our country. I can only hope that our countries and our communities will go along with this budget path. Only if we consistently continue the savings rate of the last seven years at all levels can we get to the black figures or achieve a low budget deficit in 2010. The fact that the path of the last seven years has been a very, very good one, not only says the Austrian People's Party, you can read it in all European newspapers, that will also confirm to you all European experts. The German Economic Research Institute has also praised the past seven years. It means in a broadcast: The Austrian tax system is much better than the German tax system. The tax rates are much lower than in Germany and yet more comes out under the rule. Unemployment in Austria is also lower than in Germany, especially in the long-term unemployed. And our labour market service was also praised more than that of the Germans. This difference does not come from about, valued ladies and gentlemen. We have reformed in Austria, the Green-Red Federal Government in Germany has been waiting for the upswing, but this upswing came and did not come, so this red-green government had to take measures over which a conservative government would never have dared. Imagine that an ÖVP minister had spoken about a retirement age of 67 years! A general strike would have been the minimum. Let us therefore welcome the fact that we stand there better than Germany, and let us continue the Austrian reform path! In any case, this budget is an important step in the right direction. If now Mr. Cap were here, I'd tell him: Not the red manuscript in a budget is important, but the black numbers.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e10246	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking next time. Requested time: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e10267	Madam President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't think it's necessary to argue about whose handwriting the budget carries, because in two years, everyone will be all generated for it. Today everyone wants to have been, in two years it won't have been anyone again. I don't think it makes any sense if you want to put this on the hat as a spring today. It can become a burden in the shortest time. [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: You should be a little more optimistic, Mrs. Colleague!]] But now to the budget itself. Ladies and gentlemen! It is quite right to think, it is very difficult to understand that in this budget you have not responded to the situation of disabled and in need of care – have not responded in the sense that you have not planned the valorization of the care allowance for 2007 or 2008 or have improved the situation of the 24-hour care currently not yet solved, namely the so-called round-the-clock care. You also have no answer in this budget, in which you could have provided numbers as you would like to finance it. There is nothing, and no one from the government parties has so far referred to it, like this large-announced round-the-clock care, which it does from 1. In July 2007, you will be financed if you have not provided any cover at all for the budget. With what, my dear ones Ladies and gentlemen, we have to expect in this area, or what people with disabilities and old age dependent disabled people who need intensive help, care and assistance, from 1. Fear July? As it looks, people will have to fear more than they can expect from you. The budget increases that you have inside, for example, in the area of federal pension funds only cover the demographic development of the increase in care benefits. No cent is there for the financing of the 24-hour care. I say it quite honestly: I do not even expect to be answered today by anyone who comes out of the government as a speaker or as a speaker, because you simply can't do it because nothing stands inside. [[Abg. Dr. One: Yes! Yes!]] There's nothing in there. – Don’t say yes; I have really read the chapter, Mr One: There's really nothing in there. Faith You're telling me: This negative presentation and finding is not only true to me, but you have, if you have read the media in the last two days and in particular today, also to learn from the disabled organisations that these are not budgeted, and the disabled organisations are just as intelligent or stupid as I am. Don't make us an X for a U! If it's not inside, it's not inside! But you will have to answer that, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to address one more point. So far, it has always been clear that there were additional jobs for people with disabilities in the Federal Chancellor's Office's establishment plan: additional, I said quite consciously. They're gone now. They have been pushed into the general establishment plan. But they didn't just slip in, they were pushed in. And that is why we have created the lightest game to continue to promote disability or the non-imposition of people with disabilities in the public service, especially in the Federal Service, and to try in the long term, that one does not really want disabled people to get a job in their situation, that one does not want to promote them, but that one wants to slow them down and somehow hide them as well as possible. But on the other hand, great reason is: We see that we get people with disabilities into jobs. Such a story that really goes to anyone who is concerned, such a thing from the nerves that it's better, you don't talk about it any more than you're worried always all the others with statements of what you're doing exactly the opposite, namely to the disfavors of people with disabilities and to the disfavors of people who need help and care in old age. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the next few weeks, we will have the opportunity to look at the individual budget chapters in the committees. I guarantee you – we only had the opportunity from yesterday to look at the budget once in a row – there will be a lot of funding. All who have praised this budget and all who are so happy with this budget will be surprised: We're so great! Yesterday, I think it's called far more than a hundred times: “Dear ladies and gentlemen!” The second most important word yesterday was “future” and then, of course, again“ Ladies and gentlemen! ” [[Abg. Mayerhofer: Ladies and gentlemen!]] These were the main keywords that probably accounted for 20 percent of the speeches. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Sustainable!]] The word group “people with disabilities” has never liked that, I would like to say. If you look at the budget speech: It has not been forgotten that you said it, you didn't write it in either. This is also an expression for me of how seriously one takes the interests or the situation of people with disabilities. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e10358	Next come Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. Requested time: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e10379	Madam President. Minister! High house! I would like to join my previous speaker seamlessly. It is perfectly right in its content: People with disabilities have not even been mentioned in your budget at all, in the entire budget speech. I also conclude: The topic of health has cost Minister Molterer exactly one sentence yesterday – a sentence in this budget speech on health. There it says: The contributions are now increased by 0.15 percent. – He also explained how moderate it was. That's exactly the continuation of those policies that took place on 1 January. ==References== That you agree with the SPÖ, this is a mystery for me – it will also remain a mystery, probably just as you want to sell it to your voters. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] €150 million will still be saved by improving the efficiency of health insurance companies, as stated in the Government Convention. - What this is supposed to mean is that you remain guilty. That is to say, Mrs. Minister can then ‘wrench through’ in the short term with this non-budget, this will not go well in the long term – money will be needed somewhere in the health field. Already months ago, we called on the FPÖ – that is, when you came from Brussels with your smoker hat – that tobacco tax should finally be binding on you once: This could have been carried out by the health system. There is exactly nothing passing: Stand still, after old ÖVP-SPÖ tradition! I have also listened carefully to the SPÖ health speaker, Mrs Oberhauser, speaking today. It has rightly said that prevention is an important point of approach. - That's where I'm all over her. However, it also added: Unfortunately, it is not possible for us to finance the HPV vaccination, for example, or many other prevention measures. There's still a lot of things. In reality, one is well aware that it is necessary, but unfortunately it is not going to happen. Mrs. Kdolsky may not have been able to do enough – that she might get money from the Minister of Finance –, perhaps she was just distributing her condoms: Condome is the woman's minister for all, medical bestsupply for just a few. This is the way to a two-class medicine, a two-class medicine à la ÖVP. And you're part of the SPÖ. Unfortunately, they agree with God! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: A condom is classless!]] I said condoms for everyone, but the rest of the medicine is only for those who can afford it – and that's it. And unfortunately you agree with the ÖVP here, you continue exactly the course we have had in recent years. It is already clear that the funds are limited – of which we are all aware – but one I asked months ago from this speaker's desk: I have tabled a motion for a resolution to remove foreigners from the general social security scheme. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is obvious that foreigners take more out of the social pot than they pay. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Shame!]] – You can now intercede what you want! There is a study by the Economic Research Institute of Mrs Julia Bock-Schapplerwein, which reported on this negative foreign balance as early as 2004. If that's not enough for you, there's another study. In order to save the social state in Europe, the President of the Munich “ifo-Institut”, Mr Hans-Werner Sinn, recommends, which stands very far away from restricting the access of immigrants to social benefits. [[Abg. Oils: Go!]] – Already in 2004 he warned about it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: “Neoliberal” is a weak term!]] Honestly, ladies and gentlemen: You can connect your polemics to the back. This problem will soon have to be dealt with here in this House. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Oberhauser.]] I'm already excited about how you'll react to it. You should look at the numbers before, so that you are a little better informed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e10493	Next, Mrs Mag. Worm to speak. 4 minutes welcome. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e10514	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! To address my previous speaker: We have a good health system in Austria, which will remain the same for everyone! [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: The Elsner has a super supply!]] I'll tell you one thing: There is the hippocratic oath, which applies to foreigners and foreigners – this is true everywhere! – that there will be help wherever man is ill. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This budget bears the Social Democratic manuscript, it is of course the change of course reflected in this budget. That's the difference to the last seven years. It is about investing in education, research, growth, employment and, of course, combating poverty. It has been pointed out yesterday by Minister of Finance Molterer that it was successful for the first time – 15 years ago it succeeded – to reduce public debt to less than 60 percent – and this is important. And for the second time, a Social Democratic Chancellor is responsible: at the time Chancellor Vranitzky and now Chancellor Gusenbauer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What we are still talking about in this budget is the reduction of unemployment. With this budget, we will ensure that there will be fewer unemployed in 2010 in this country. What makes me particularly happy as a women's politician is that there is again a true women's minister who will make a strong policy for women in our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The budget for women will be increased by 35 percent, and, of course, Minister Bures has stressed this, we will ensure that the gender aspect is not too short in the other ministries. I am particularly pleased – and yesterday it was announced at the joint press conference – that the intervention agencies receive plus 60 percent for their services. That is good and that is important and it is a great help for women who are victims of domestic violence. This will also contribute to the campaign launched by the Council of Europe last year in all 46 Member States. This is a campaign to raise awareness of the fight and prevention of domestic violence. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The flexibilization of child benefits is also of great importance because it significantly increases the chance of self-sufficiency and age protection for women. The fight against poverty is also very important; women are particularly affected by the fact that women are the poor in our society. It is important that we not only talk about minimum security, but that the budget is available in the budget, and it is important – it has already been mentioned today – that there are talks about the increase or a joint increase, I say now that the general collective agreement is worth €1,000 for the lowest wage groups. This is a very important matter, especially for women, Mr Oellinger, because they are unfortunately busy in the low-paid industries. [[Abg. Oils: You need more!]] Of course we need more! It can't be enough for women, but it's a start here once again, and that's important. What makes me happy as a security politician is that there will finally be a change of course, namely that we have more police on the street again. This is important in the sense that crime has increased in recent years. There's a change of course here now. A warm thanks to Minister Faymann for the house in Amras in Innsbruck. This is a long-standing call for a citizens' initiative, now it is finally being fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e10595	Next, Mr Glaser. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e10616	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I can now return to the topic of development cooperation. Much has just been said about health, poverty. These are all factors that are particularly important in the context of development cooperation, and many others, such as hunger and the like, are also involved. These are really factors that inhibit development in these countries. I might say from the outset that we simply have to bear in mind in this area that the world's population will continue to grow enormously in the next few years. The forecast is that by 2050 more than nine billion people will be at home on this earth. At the same time, we know that world energy consumption is increasing enormously, especially in emerging countries, in China, India, where growth rates are growing by 10 percent and more. And we are slowly getting into the problem of competition between world nutrition and world energy consumption. This competition is quite easy to manage accordingly. I believe that we are facing a huge challenge here, worldwide, but also in Austria, that we can do everything we can to keep on living in a peaceful world and, on the other hand, to ensure development for all. This challenge is also known to the Federal Government; it has been clear in both the government statement and the budget debate that the agreed objective of achieving 0.51 percent of the gross domestic product for the EZA is to be achieved. I am grateful to the members of the government, also to our Minister for Finance, that he wants to do everything he can to ensure that we actually achieve this 0.51 percent. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It was rightly criticised that with this 2007/2008 budget, we are only taking small steps towards 0.51 percent, so it will be necessary to make tremendous efforts in the 2009/2010 budgets. There, I think, we really have someone in Mrs. Federal Minister Ursula Plassnik who wants to achieve this goal and will do everything he can to achieve it. I am confident that, starting from Mr. Federal Chancellor about the Minister of Finance and everyone else, she will take on the duty that this should not remain lipged, but that it will actually be implemented. I would like to conclude by reminding you today that Mr Sozialminister Buchinger in New York is currently signing a UN Convention on the Rights of Disabled People, especially in the field of Development Cooperation. I believe that we have also shown in this area, especially many NGOs, that there is much to be achieved with commitment and commitment. This commitment and commitment will require not only the government groups and ministers, but also all of us. I can ask all of you to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e10665	Mrs Hradecsni will speak next. 5 minutes welcome. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e10686	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It's almost impossible to say: Today we have heard again and again how wonderfully the economy flourishes and how well the positive economic development affects our country. That's what I'm going to do. However, in this context it is apparently forgotten that private consumption plays a central role in this. That is why I could hardly trust my eyes when I found that there were also cuts in the present double budget, namely reductions in consumer protection. A quite positive development in the black and blue-orange budget of recent years has been an increase in the consumer protection budget by about €1.5 million to €4 315,000, but now there are actually cuts in this area of over €800 000 – and this is already a small budget. This is almost 20 percent less available to consumer protection now – and that was, as has been said, not much. That's what I'm asking myself: Are these the red traces already quoted today that can be found in this budget? Or who is responsible for it? – On the one hand, without much spring reading, they remove a supposed tax of € 132 million, namely the inheritance tax, and then it is necessary to save €800 000 in this, anyway, scarce consumer protection budget. Austria already had a very low per capita quota from home. The European comparison is as follows: We have a per capita quota of 22 cents, which is the stand 2006; At this time Germany had a per capita ratio of 63 cents, UK even of €2.22 – so not so insignificant. Consumer protection is becoming increasingly important and consumer protection requirements are increasing. This fact was also welcomed and properly taken into account in the establishment of the Consumer Protection Committee. As I said, unfortunately not in this budget, quite the opposite. I can and must conclude that the Red-Black Federal Government or the Minister for Finance Consumer Protection and therefore also an insignificant contribution to social peace – I only call it a keyword: the ever-increasing indebtedness of private households, the much discussed Internet crime et cetera – are relatively different. – Although I must say that this has already been announced in the Government Convention. In my view, very important and long-needed measures by consumer protection organisations have not been taken at all. I would like to say once again that I consider these cuts in the field of consumer protection to be an blatant mistake. This stands for me in a very serious contradiction to the much quoted investments in the future. Then I would like to make a very small comment on the much praised infrastructure package: I'm a member of the forest district. With us in the Waldviertel, all the secondary railways have already been stopped, and now the infrastructure of these interbahns will no longer be preserved. That's a very blatant intervention, and not... [[Abg. Murauer: Do you also drive by train?]] Please? – Well, of course I'm going by train. There is no such thing as thanks to God, but the accompanying stations and very important small sections for which there has already been EU funding. I am thinking of the combination of Fratres – Slavonice, which was separated by the Iron Curtain, which is not revitalized from an Austrian point of view. From my point of view, this is really a very blatant failure. This, I think, should also be included in all these considerations of the infrastructure package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e10723	Mr Mayerhofer is now speaking. 5 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e10746	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Shame, the Minister of the Interior is not in the hall, neither is Mr Kößl. I understand, of course, that he had to defend his case here for his group, the ÖVP, but it is in fact different. I am particularly addressing the situation of the executive of Austria. The budget speech or the statements of Mr Vice-Chancellor were, in fact, a clear threat to every citizen and a call for every citizen to take massive precautions of a particular kind in order to ensure security for himself and for his own. As the crime statistics have promoted, there is a particular need for action in this area. If robbery, burglary theft, money counterfeiters and drug offences are on the agenda, including in rural areas, this cannot be met with the fact that only 200 plantations are created throughout Austria. That's at least ten times too little. Here is an example: If the municipal councils – including the municipal councils of the ÖVP – have decided to use a private company in the twilighting season in order to limit the dawns, with some success, then it is also to be recognized that the ÖVP mandatare no longer believe in their own ministers at the most important level, namely at the lower level. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] How do the Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Interior deal with this extremely harmful development? – With even more savings! Yesterday, I found out that savings are ordered in a watchroom, now “Police Inspection”, which I read on a service paper: in Vienna 7 percent, on average 15 percent. So it's something different than Mr. Vice-Chancellor proclaims great here from the government bank. It thereby tempts the population to weigh themselves in a certain sense of security, for which there is no reason at all. This must be done every day by the citizen. There are 15 percent savings across the country – in view of this development, as I have already said. In Lower Austria, there is a 16 percent increase in crime while at the same time reducing the rate of education. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] - I'll tell you. You can come over to me right after that, I'll explain to you. From our point of view, the citizen can expect a return on this tax rate, which is an elementary consideration: security in this country. This is a state task, as I mean, and with this tax rate, he can also expect a proper, good level of security, which is now no longer the case. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now a word on statistics: These crime statistics, Minister, are simply wrong. I know that your officials and your major generals in the federal states are always taking them as a proven means of seducing the citizens to weigh themselves safely. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: What a security!]] Right, Mr. Col., that's a great security. And this is particularly deficient because it prevents citizens from taking their own measures and taking their own precautions. Let me give you an example: For example, if 20 cars are broken up in a underground garage in Vienna, this is considered to be an act. [[Abg. Broukal nods in agreement.]] But when it comes to information, Mr Broukal, each car is considered to be a case of its own reconnaissance. That's bad, and that's what's blushing sand in the eyes of the citizen. There must finally be an honest and reasonable language system, which gives real security to the citizen when he reads the crime statistics. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Broukal: Yes, but you did!]] That's a cover-up of facts. The ÖVP has clearly discovered the concealment of the truths and the retention of the facts as a proven means for its policy and for the enforcement of its interests. That can't be! Crime statistics must be in line with the truth. What else should be true? When the special group was announced by Mr Pröll, the citizens in Lower Austria believed that now 24 wuzzis will come in uniform and civil form. [[Abg. Rädler: This has been implemented!]] Of course, they've been subtracted somewhere. Of course! They haven't been re-recorded. At last, it would be necessary for police students to be among those who hold a planning post until they are released into the practical service. The Minister didn't do that either. Detto's in court. There you have a super-class of 9,000 prisoners. 800 planning sites are needed there. But there you encounter increased numbers of prisoners with the release of prisoners. That is why I would like to ask you: What does the people need in the executive? - More staff! But not 200 planning sites, but at least 2,000, especially in view of the current development. We need a minister and top official who doesn't just get in touch with every second sensitive journalist question. Then it will also be better ordered about the security feeling of the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e10845	Now comes Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. 4 minutes welcome. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e10867	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In his budget speech, the Minister of Finance has devoted a passage to family policy, and as an attentive listener, I have noticed that in a passage he clearly deviated from his original manuscript, where it was about the relationship between work and work between work and work. In his original manuscript we find the sentence: “We promote the compatibility of family and work and take an important step towards a higher female employment rate”. – Nothing to add to it! However, he said: “This reconciliation of work and family is also a step towards keeping us on the right track towards women’s employment rate.” This, ladies and gentlemen, is, I think, more than just a semantic change. There he has set a different emphasis on content than he originally proposed. And if I consider the way he and his party have seen in recent years as the right one in terms of the female employment rate and the compatibility of work and family, I think that this leaves some question mark as to what he might have meant with it, In recent years, however, the trend has been rather towards longer careers, more difficult re-entry, women in part-time jobs. I have thus reached the reforms of the childcare allowance. This is where improvements are taking place, which are intended to put accents in the opposite direction, namely to facilitate re-entry and to increase the rate of women's employment. A model for the reform of the childcare allowance has now been developed, which is also reflected in the budget: on the one hand, the first step towards flexibilising the child care allowance, which is cost-neutral, and on the other hand, the increase in the amount of earnings, which, from my point of view, is a correct step, which is a budgetary one, where I believe that the debate we have held in recent days shows that we should actually undertake a more comprehensive reform of the earnings limit. I think that the debate over the last few days has shown that the pure limit of money is so difficult – in addition to the unnecessary chaos that has still been produced in this context – that it is very difficult to find a way out alone with this limit of money, and that we could immediately use the first start to create several possibilities, namely that the limit of merit could fall if a reduction in working time was made. As far as childcare funds are concerned, some €700 000 has been allocated in recent years to support pilot projects in childcare. By the way, it was never understandable what was promoted by where this money flowed. These funds are no longer in the budget, it is assumed that they have been included in the ‘family GmbH’ budget. In this regard, I would like to stress once again from this point of view that our criticism has been confirmed, namely that transparency has been lost, control has been lost, and that we will continue to pay attention to increased transparency and control in this regard.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e10909	Mr Ferdinand Maier spoke next. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e10933	Madam President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I'm trying to get out with two minutes. – First of all, I would like to ask the question – I have already done this in the last legislative period – whether it really makes sense to sit here in plenary and let 110 speakers play their part. In the last legislative period, the former President of the Khol National Council once meant that it should be considered that, under certain circumstances, contributions to debate should also be made in writing to the Protocol. – I would ask you to take up this initiative by Dr. Khol and see that you can do something there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I actually wanted to thank Parliamentary stenographers for always writing what we are saying here. We could facilitate their work by adding our speech to the Minutes in written form. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: If you have nothing to say, then go again!]] I actually wanted to talk about the role of the Federal Chancellor, but if he is not there, this is a bit difficult. Mr Cap will perhaps send it out to him. – The man spoke of a disaster when it was about the deal of Böhler-Uddeholm. I can only say: In fact, your still partyman has been the disaster! And I wonder, What's going on in a man who thinks that way and expresses it? What does he think if he is in the circle of all the Heads of Government and the Presidents of Europe who are actually showing how Europe is, how Europe works, but who is acting here as a small Chamber of Labour from Lower Austria? It is already the question to ask: What did he think about it? [[Abg. Binder-Maier: Arrogance comes before the case!]] One last thing: I think the catastrophe is always to listen to Hannes Androsch. I beg you, take what Hannes Androsch says pretty slowly not so seriously anymore. In my opinion, he is a voodoo economist, he always comes up with what is to be said, and in reality he never takes his own money into his hands at the tips he himself gives. – So in that respect, one should also consider in the SPÖs whether it is so sensible to always believe what Mr Androsch says. I just wanted to talk for two minutes. I hope I made it.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e10989	Next, Mr. Dr. Haimbuchner. 4 minutes welcome. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e11011	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Good conversation, ladies State Secretary! [[The State Secretarys Silhavy and Kranzl, sitting on the government bank, talk to each other.]] High house! As far as Mr Maier's statements are concerned, I should like to say with astonishment that, in the Austrian parliamentarism, a Urdemocratic right of Members is to be trampled on, if one suggests that one should at one time add debate contributions in a written form to the Minutes. That would have been the time of Federal Minister Molterer yesterday, for he had already distributed his fibling here before his budget speech, so to speak – we could have added it to the Minutes. That one had to hear a hundred thousand times “my ladies and gentlemen” and “difficulty” and“ future orientation ” would not have been necessary either. – Please, let’s stay with parliamentarism! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As I said, yesterday we heard the budget speech of the Federal Minister Molterer, who is now called “Pater Willi” in the ÖVP, but don’t worry, I asked myself higher today: He is not yet in the breath of holiness. I haven't heard anything about this in Upper Austria either. Now, Father Molterer presented the “budget Bible ” in printed form yesterday, and I have read through what was cited in it regarding youth. It says that it is about the future prospects of our youth, which we must not put through debt mountains. – I'm right about your Federal Minister, that's right! But who has accumulated the debt mountain at the expense of the young people? Who even hung this youth backpack? – That was ÖVP and SPÖ! The ÖVP cannot always, as yesterday again, produce itself here and say: Well, all the debts actually come from the era Kreisky! – Kreisky's always to blame. I have to tell you: They have been responsible for government since 1986! And there you've always acted after the Soletti advertising: Always with you! – You were always there when the debt was increased, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Don't always be child-moving! This has to be held at this point. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] Yes, I know when the calls to the ÖVP are getting louder, I'm right. Each citizen has 20 000 euros of debt. – You have to imagine this: Every new earth citizen in Austria is born with a “negative” VW golf! [[Abg. Oillinger: What is a “negative” VW golf?]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, are responsible for this mortgage! You don't need to talk about the young people not changing the future by the debt mountain! The young Austrians are already sitting on the debt mountain you don't want to see! Where are the forward-looking measures in the budget? – I'm looking for them too! I can't really hear this sequence of plattites any more soon: “Sustainability”, “Future orientation”, “Vulnerability” and what I know, what you hear! After all, we will soon invent your own dictionary, and we will then issue it – and we will give it to the Stenographical Protocol as well. You have managed a sustainable one from the ÖVP and the SPÖ: They left us young people a huge debt mountain. With us there will no longer be the word “pension! ” This will be erased once in future reforms. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The youth budget has been admittedly slightly increased, in particular in favour of red and black party organisations. – Don’t worry, I don’t have envy, even the black and red youth should be promoted. Then: It's true, you have to think about one thing: With the missed family policy you are pursuing, we soon no longer have Austrian youth, so you can also promote your own youth organisations a little! Mrs Grossmann – unfortunately she is not here now – said today: Well, the increase in scholarships, that's great, that's what we did! – So, I remember that the SPÖ recently called for the abolition of the tuition fees. But we've heard it today, that's the new theory of relativity: It's all relative! Within a few months, everything is different, because it's all relative. – That’s really nice! [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Don't get upset, that's the truth. I know the truth hurts! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Grossmann calls for the vote to be taken at the age of 16. – I would guard against that as a SPÖ! I'd guard against that, because the youth saw how you betrayed her! – So, that can be terrible for you to “go into your pants! ” That's what I'm telling you at this point. You have also been very disappointed by the EIA, because where are real measures in relation to apprentices, for example? Pupil free ride for apprentices, refunding of boarding costs for apprentices: That would be a real relief for apprentices, of which they would have something. But this is not to be found! I also say to you quite honestly: It's like this: Not all that comes from the government is bad! It is not all bad what Members of the European Parliament are bringing into this House; it is a matter of course anyway. But truly ambitious, tangible measures for our youth do not make this budget clear, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e11105	Mrs Hlavac's next speech. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e11127	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It is good that you are here, Minister of the Interior, because I would like to comment on the positive increase in the areas of refugee and integration. However, I would also like to take advantage of today's general debate to note that integration is not only a task of the Interior, it is therefore not only the resources of the Interior, but also, as in the government programme, a social task. There are very many areas that have been mentioned in part today, thank you very much. For example, Mrs Schmied pointed out that, in the field of school and training, particular attention must be paid to children with migration backgrounds, in order to solve the problems they have, and to address the disadvantages they have and give them the same opportunities as all other children. It is not a question of distributing money to migrants, as Mr Strache said, but rather of ensuring that there are balanced opportunities in society as a whole. And this is in the interests of the whole society as a whole, where the maintenance of social peace is concerned, because if parts of the population are excluded from development and progress, there are social tensions that we do not want and that we cannot want. That is why I would like to stress once again: It is important that, in all areas – in the field of education, women, also in the health field, because we naturally expect that there is the best possible medical care for all people in our country – something is contributed to integration, as provided for in the Government Agreement. I look forward to future work with optimism. I am convinced that we will do something good here.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e11170	The next item is Mrs Riener. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e11191	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian administration is one of the best in Europe, which shows numerous prices. The current focus was on the public administration of user-friendliness for citizens; help.gv.at, finance online, ELAK 2005 were only mentioned here. The improvement of work processes, the reduction of double-tracking and the avoidance of parallel structures have so far been the subject and will have to continue to be the subject of the budget project, which is related to the task, but also to state reform in the interplay between the Federal Government and the Länder. Communities to ensure that essential tasks are eliminated and that tasks are located where they can be most effective and efficient. Finally, it is also important to pursue social partnership. One can only implement such projects together with the experience of the employees and, in the course of the administrative reform, finally achieve this budget target, which the government has also undertaken. I have read the following in the Federal Government's budget report – I quote: ‘A modern... Administration is essential for a successful competitive location and basis for the necessary trust of the population in the state." Nothing is added to this, except thanks to all public servants for doing this work, doing their best, including for us in our work as a politician, but especially for the citizens of this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I congratulate our Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance Molterer on this ambitious budget, which has been on the right path since 2000 and is focusing on future topics. The most important of these is social security, which is a major concern to me personally. Yesterday, the Deputy Minister of Finance Molterer stated that it should be supported where it is necessary, but at the same time it is important to offer the incentive and motivation for the way back into the world of work. That's help for self-help! This is the principle of modern social work, and this strengthens self-reliance. The ÖVP in the Federal Government is the guarantee for this path and ensures that this path is continued. I wish all my colleagues a beautiful Easter festival.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e11253	Mrs Trunk is now speaking. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e11274	Mrs. State Secretary! Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I should like to focus briefly on the leisure and tourism sectors. I hope that it has not been conscious, but it is unconscious that the budget speech of Mr Finanzminister did not mention the two concepts of tourism and leisure, but I still assume that he is well aware of the importance and importance of this sector of the economy. However, I am aware – and this is a sad fact – that innovative measures of an innovative nature are not included in the budget. [[Abg. Grill: Bad read!]] No, very, very well read, and I know – unlike some Members of other parties who do not even read the Croquis. – That is to say, there is no explicit approach to the development and development of model regions in the budget. It is also a fact that there is no explicit budget approach to further development towards year-round tourism for very concrete measures – and there are content and concepts. That is, in reality, the leisure and tourism budget is being rewritten. What are we gonna do? . I think that if existing things are rewritten and at the same time new ones are in the government programme, there is only one possibility: we can jointly evaluate the previous funding measures, subsidies, funding structures, guidelines, whether they are still up-to-date or whether we should replace them with other directives and criteria, otherwise there is a great contradiction between the content of the government programme and the budget available. But I am confident that we already agreed on the Committee, especially since the Minister spoke in this direction after some approaches and the first meeting in the Committee. Tourism and leisure is also a cross-sectional matter. That is not why I call it so as to distract myself from it by saying that something else, in other ministries, should also be done. Rather, we should be aware that, for example, education, training, science and research are very important than accompanying measures that we need to implement more effectively. It is family and explicit women's policy very, very essential as a basis for the tourism and leisure industry. Just to say a little example: If we do not have needs-oriented comprehensive care with childcare and afternoon care facilities, the parents working in tourism as entrepreneurs or employees will be very difficult. The next area, which is important in this context, is infrastructure. I therefore welcome the fact that the Secretary of State is there because traffic access is an essential basis for tourism. A praise for the fact that the gender budgeting principle in the field of technology is established in the field of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I would suggest that this applies to all areas, including tourism and leisure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e11314	Mr Hörl has now come to speak. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e11335	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haimbuchner, I would have been interested in where the debt per capita lies with the liberals if you were so upset about the per capita debt in Austria. That would be a very exciting topic! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger: A per capita bill!]] The government programme acknowledges the importance of tourism for the domestic economy. This is also good because every year more people find employment in tourism. Tourism as an industry brings 16 percent for gross domestic product. Last year alone, 4 500 new jobs have been created, the number of apprentices rising, while unemployment is falling. The number of nights rose to nearly 120 million in 2006, and even after this difficult winter season, we were able to achieve a record – with 40.4 million nights – that is, an increase of 0.3 percent. Austria is so high as to count those of Greece and Portugal. It is only logical that the Federal Government should commit itself to the growth-oriented tourism strategy with the aim of a quality tourism year-round. The right measures will also be put in place in the budget. In this context, I am expressly grateful to our competent Finance Minister Willi Molterer and the Minister for Economic Affairs Martin Bartenstein. Then: € 24 million will flow into the ÖHT funding and hence to small and medium-sized enterprises that already suffer from a tight equity ceiling. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] €24 million for the roof brand “Austria”, for Austria’s advertising, more than €2.2 million for the protection cabin programme – and there the greens should listen – and again 6 million for the so important “EURO 2008” for us. Not to be forgotten are the budget resources which, for example, contribute to the promotion of a higher qualification of employees and to the special promotion programmes for tourism schools. In all these areas, money is not distributed as it is with the foundry can, but is used in accordance with the needs and purpose, as it is typical of the ÖVP and our Finance Minister Willi Molterer. Unfortunately, it is logical that the Greens ultimately do not identify with tourism. I am increasingly of the opinion that this anti-Tourism attitude has to do not only with environmental concerns, but that it is a contempt for those people – and this is to be felt – who work in tourism. Most of them are simple people without university education, who live by manual work, and this does not fit into your image of the big cities. I can only tell you: We're in tourism, we're out of it! Make You keep going, the voters will punish you for it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e11387	Mr Wittmann spoke next. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e11408	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State! High house! First of all, I think, one thing is clear: one can also see the SPÖ manuscript in this budget. There is more money for education, there is more money for labour market-related funding, there is more money for research, and there is more money for poverty reduction. These are quite achievements that, otherwise, the SPÖ would not have been in the government, would not have been included in this budget. [[President Dr. Spindelegger will again take over the presidency.]] To the budget of the Federal Chancellery: The Federal Chancellor's Office budget has been reduced by €442 million. This is mainly due to the allocation of the art budget, but also to a reduction in ERDF funding, so that this reduction can be explained. The staff expenditure, which is also within the scope of the specifications, remains constant so that it can be said that this is an example of what is being done. Important is: The Ministry of Women, located in the Federal Chancellery, has an increase of 35 percent – and this is a real increase, the largest one ever in this budget. It is also important to me that the promotion of groups remains the same, so that it is not saved here, but that it continues to be promoted accordingly. – I believe that the Federal Chancellor’s Office’s budget as a detailed budget is quite tangible. Of course, it is very important to me that I have the sports budget, which is also located in the Federal Chancellery. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That could have been a little more!]] As a sports spokesman, I can only support the provision of appropriate money for football stadiums and football European Championships. This is true at €24 million. I think it's gonna be a great event. The application Salzburg with €1.6 million is also to be supported. The funds of the sports budget, which have also experienced an increase here, which will flow in high-speed sports, top-level sports and also in health-enhancing sports activities, are a good investment. As a Wiener Neustädter Member of Parliament, I would like to say that I am very pleased and pleased that the MedAustron science project was explicitly mentioned in the 2008 approach and that an authorisation of €20 million has been anchored, so that this scientific project is recognised as one of Austria's leading projects, and I believe that it is absolutely necessary to support the federal government. The country support has this project, and I believe it is no longer in the way of a realization.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e11454	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Eder-Gitschthaler. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e11475	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State! High house! My main focus today is on education and culture, which I would like to highlight a little closer. I should like to make a positive assessment of the planned additional investment in education and research in the budget. However, the old government has not broken up education, as I would like to say clearly here. Nevertheless, in spite of the promises made by the Federal Minister for Education, some of the reform projects in the field of education are still waiting for them. Here we need to work out the plans in the Government Convention quickly and target-orientedly – we owe them to our children. As an example, I should just like to mention the promised reduction in the maximum number of school pupils to 25, and here I would like to remind you that the reduction of this maximum number of students must also include vocational and higher schools and should not be carried out at the expense of the sizes of the groups in language teaching. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Ursula Haubner.]] Let me make a brief comment on the arts and culture budget: Unfortunately, no major jumps have been made here against the commitments of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs. There are great discrepancies between announcement and reality. Above all, one thing is striking: The small institutions and cultural initiatives, which are especially dear to me, have to expect up to 50 percent reductions in part. I do not see the increase in the cultural budget so much announced at all, but quite the contrary! The directors of the Bundestheater and Bundesmuseen, where there is no increase this year, did not hold back with their disappointment. You only need to read in the “press ” today. Finally, it should be noted that in the double budget presented, the taxpayers' money has been handled with care, and I can thank our Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e11520	The next speaker is Mr Neubauer. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e11542	Mr President. Dear Members on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! So today is the day of the great search for traces, which, starting from the first speaker, many others have joined. I also looked at these search for traces in the budget and at the first study I recognized great impressions and impressions of two personalities of this House, namely the former Federal Chancellor of this Republic of Schüssel and the current Vice-Cancellor Molterer, who left their marks here with great impression. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] The effects of these traces are already recognizable. That's where you have to congratulate: This must succeed once, in a constellation where one is the second strongest party in this country, to spend a budget in such a way that the really stronger partner in this budget hardly appears any more! This search has led to the fact that you have of course also looked at: Where is the stronger party actually anchored in this budget?, and since, I have to say, there is only a red patch that you find with much effort. And that this has an impact in Austria is clear. You don't have to believe that from the high Olympus down here we are making a policy that is no longer recognized outside the door, ladies and gentlemen. People are not as stupid as they are still estimated by some. The best indicator that we are right with this criticism is simply the fact that the SPÖ itself already has fire on the roof, because the best indicator that people are not satisfied with the SPÖ's policy is the fact that their own party base is refusing the follow-up of these SPÖs here in Parliament. This is quite clear from the fact that the Linz municipal council is tasked with two resolutions, introduced by the SPÖ, which in Linz has the absolute majority, with this government and its own political group, the SPÖ Group, in this House, to push forward negotiations or the complete abolition of study fees. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is not from the Freedom Party, that comes from its own party in Linz! And for the second: In March, a resolution was again adopted with the desire, but please pay more attention to the social component and take back the evasion of the protection against dismissal for apprentices. Ladies and gentlemen! This shows that the real, true social home party is no longer the SPÖ, but the Freedom Party in this country! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to draw your attention to a few specific points: You have purchased the cancellation of the apprentices. They have contributed to the increase in the tax on mineral oil which is taxing all Austrians. They have fallen into the Eurofighter, with the study fees – you want social service for students – at the inheritance tax, at the CO2 certification. A highlight of SPÖ and socialism has always been the right to vote – and here, too, you have come to mind with the choice of letters! You'd have to be ashamed of that.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e11603	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muttons. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e11624	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to talk about art and culture and at the beginning I would like to say something basic: I find the common place of art, culture and education very encouraging. The fact that these two areas are closely related is known and good. Education is well known to be the focus of the government programme, and this is also an impact. The government programme is in the chapter Art and Culture: "The Federal Government aims to support cultural participation and to set up measures to expand cultural education. This means... more art and culture in schools,...’. Austria has absolute need for recovery and recovery in this area, and investment and activities in this area are therefore particularly positive. There should be a rather large budget item here. These are important measures, ladies and gentlemen, not only to arouse the interest of the future receptors of art and culture, but above all to involve children and young people very early in the debate on the development of society. Film industry and film promotion: In fact, there is a substantial increase in the budget, which the film-makers also speak of as a positive signal, which they have welcomed as a step in the right direction or as a right goal. So yesterday the secret about the budget figures was vented, and the pleasure of the fact is that cultural expenditure is increasing. That the plus is not as high as we wanted, I would like to say the following: We will continue to support more financial resources for art and culture, but more was not possible at the moment, following the not very encouraging outcome of the Cassascend at the end of the last period of government. However, after years of air-warding, it is now something like breathing through in the arts and culture area. Relevant will also be how the funds will be used in the future: The IKM, the Institute for Cultural Management, has made an investigation into the structure of expenditure, and it has been found here that in recent years major events have mainly won in the distribution, namely by plus 28.4 percent. On the loser side were adult education, cultural initiatives, literature and the like. This will be changed, ladies and gentlemen, because culture must by no means be a luxury, but, quite the contrary, must be manageable and accessible to everyone! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e11677	The next speaker is Mr Wöginger. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e11698	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! It is important that this budget continues the successful path of recent years. There is still a solid government budget – no longer spending than you take; a deficit of around 1 percent is still acceptable, and the zero deficit will come back from 2009 – it will be properly and specifically invested where it is necessary – in social security, in growth and employment and in the field of education – and the budget is fair, sustainable and gender-friendly. And this is especially important for young people in this country, so that future prospects are not installed by additional debt. This has been the case in recent years: I recall three economic packages, a tax reform, the unemployment rate has been falling for months and not only since 11. January this year, ladies and gentlemen, and we also see the success of the tax rate, which will fall from over 45 percent to 41.5 percent in 2008. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to briefly address one point in this budget debate, namely the question of employee participation: It is a matter of ensuring the success of a company in a fair relationship between employers and employees and also of participating financially in this success. And especially in times when we have high economic growth and good economic development, it is necessary to accept this issue. This not only promotes the idea of partnership and co-entrepreneurship, but also leads to the building of a trust culture in companies. The involvement of employees in the company increases the motivation and thus, in turn, the competitiveness of the company. The safeguarding of jobs, the broadening of the income base of employees as well as a more uniform distribution of productive capital are the key points of employee participation. The ÖVP and, in particular, the ÖAAB will develop a useful model and implement it in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e11740	The next speaker is Mrs Hagenhofer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e11762	Mr President. Estimated State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In connection with the two budgets 2007 and 2008, I would like to deal with payments to the European Union, but also with the return of funds from the European Union, because our Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance Molterer said yesterday that it is the government's goal to bring every cent back from Brussels, so to speak. – This is a position that you can only support and underline, and you just have to really put everything you do. Transparency is also needed especially in the use of the Brussels funds, which is what the funds are used for. What I want to say is: We have received, and you all know it, a wonderful overview of the 2007 budget and the 2008 budget in DIN A4 form, and I also see the payments made to the European Union. [[the speaker keeps them up to date]] And when I make 2007, transfers to the European Union are reported with 2 400 million, and for 2008 with 2 500 million. – If I look at the backflows in the budget report now, I come up with an estimate given for 2006, and I have a total return of 1,736 million from the 2005 source of the Ministry of Finance. What I want to say is: We have three, four different figures, and my request to the Minister of Finance would be to add this beautiful sheet to the correct presentation of the backflows also in connection with EU return flows – that not only the payments we make in Brussels, but also the return flows, so that at a glance it is clear what has actually flown back on funds. It can and must not be like what happened to me: that there is a request from the State of Upper Austria, which has returned funds in the form of projects, the entire list will not be made public, I can only see individual projects – and only when the project operators so to speak give the permission to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to change this in the sense of transparency. All funds coming from the EU and going to Europe must be declared accordingly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e11807	The next speaker is Mrs Mikesch. 2 minutes of the time limit chosen. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e11828	Mr. Minister! Dear Secretary of State! As a representative of small and medium-sized enterprises, I am of course very pleased that yesterday the Minister of Finance and Vice-Chancellors so praised the small and medium-sized enterprises in his report. We can easily see that small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of the domestic economy and those who guarantee jobs and training places excellently. And especially for these, a lot has been achieved in the past – with the profits not collected, with the corporate tax reduction and, of course, with more than 300,000 revenue-expenditure calculators, to which we were also able to secure tax benefits thanks to God. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Because of these very important steps taken for small and medium-sized enterprises, we see today the unemployment rate: For 13 months the unemployment rate has been reduced again and again – and this is very important for us. For this year 4,3 percent are forecast and 4,1 percent for the next year, and this is of course excellent. One issue that is very important is lifelong learning, because the shortage of skilled workers is very evident in some regions of our home country. One fact that is very encouraging is that youth unemployment has fallen by almost 10 percent. It is also seen that the steps taken by the previous government were really excellent. The number of apprentices has also increased very significantly: Almost 126 000 apprentices are currently being trained in approximately 38 000 businesses in Austria, and this is certainly due to the Blum bonus. Due to this excellent data, excellent economic growth has been forecast this year, i.e. three percent, and I think that we can build on this good work that has been done so far with this double budget 2007/2008. Economic growth, the economy has something to do with the mood – the mood is good, and with it we can continue this successful path for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e11881	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Johann Maier. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e11905	Mr President. Dear Secretary of State! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Consumer protection is a cross-sectional matter. To find out to what extent consumer interests have been taken into account in the budget, each budget needs to be analysed, examined, and I want to take only two positions. A position, the most important, is in the budget for social and consumer protection. I am glad that the Consumer Information Association continues to be assured and will, and I would like to ask you all to continue to provide the necessary support to the Consumer Information Association. I would like to take the opportunity to thank all the colleagues of the VKI, who are really doing excellent work for Austrian consumers. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Consumer interests can also be found in the budget chapter Health, Family and Youth. We have decided in the government agreements to secure the AGES. The AGES is better taught, and the AGES, ladies and gentlemen, is being developed together. The budget approach 1/173, I say, is very distant from the budget, it must not break out pandemic. If there are any major problems, Mr Hohes Haus, we will need special funding here. Overall, I note that this budget meets the needs of consumer organisations in Austria and that consumer policy, as described in the government programme, can be successfully implemented.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e11948	The next speaker is Mr Deputie's friend. Also 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e11970	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say first of all that the Federal Government has done a very good job under Chancellor Schüssel over the past seven years, and on this basis the government can continue to work positively on Gusenbauer-Molter. Austria has become a popular location for company settlements, pensions have been insured, and many measures have also been taken in the area of family and children. – This government also sets new emphasis on education policy, rural policy, environmental and climate policy, security, infrastructure and family policy. I think we can be proud of the development in our country, and this should also be seen by the opposition parties, because in Austria it is excellent to live and work, and we can therefore go optimistically into the future! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The economy is growing, exports are increasing and employment is increasing. An unemployment rate of 4.2 percent is practically full employment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is also important to make a policy for rural regions, and I would particularly like to highlight the measures in the field of infrastructure, and I particularly welcome the agreement between Minister Faymann and Minister of Finance Molterer and our head of state Dr. Pühringer and Head of State Hiesl on the above Austrian transport projects, because they are committed to making life even more mobile. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I should like to point out that it is important that the general renovation of the Innkreis motorway is made so that it becomes safer so that it is safer to drive for the commuters again. I would also like to point out that freight transport on this motorway has grown enormously last year and that it is therefore necessary to put in place appropriate measures here. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With this double budget, Austria will continue the stable path of the past years and respond to the different needs of the people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e12030	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lap. Also 2 minutes of self-appointed speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e12051	Mr President. Dear Secretary of State! High house! Fighting unemployment is a primary task for the Social Democratic Party. The introduction of the SPÖ into government is the red standard, because we as the government party are also responsible for people in the word and for people. For disabled people, the employment offensive will be increased by €5 million, offering business services to businesses, the Federal Social Office as a competence centre, and lending will be made possible to ensure that disabled people have safe employment conditions and are integrated into the labour market. The disabled people of the Federal Republic are not being dismantled, as Mrs Haidlmayr has said, but integration is on the agenda for us. We don't want to be special, we want to integrate. In the field of care, some previous speakers also mounted that there is no money available. On the contrary, ladies and gentlemen! € 18.4 million in 2007 and € 34 million in 2008 will be used together with the countries' finances for 24-hour care and 24-hour care. In the case of pension insurance, there is also support for caregivers in the form that both contributions, employers' and employees' contributions, are paid by the federal government. Another measure here too, so that disabled people are a major focus in the social budget. This is a new start, ladies and gentlemen, for people in our country and especially for disabled people!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e12085	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Sonnberger. 2 minutes speaking time. – Mr Sonnberger is obviously not in the hall. Next, Mr Zach. Also 2 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e12111	Ladies and gentlemen! I listened very carefully yesterday to the budget speech, and I noticed two things. First of all, the word “future” was used very extensively, in saying and writing 15 variations – appropriate, inappropriate; then the Jew can learn something. Secondly, what reaches the entire area of the Danube: Here we have heard that the Danube flows through the EU. That means that Ukraine, Moldova and Croatia are now also EU Member States? In any case, I pray to God that the Minister of Finance knows a bit better with numbers than in geography. Back to the future, and this is primarily about the field of education. There was a real lack of courage for the future, because if I look at the numbers in school, then the disillusionment occurs here – and where, if not in the field of education, should the word “future” fit better? Class student peak reduction on 25, nice and good, but where is the money for the youngest generation, the children? Where is the money for children's cribs and kindergartens or better education gardens? I make a proposal to the Minister for Finance: We do not necessarily have to make new debts, we can also get the money where it is on the road, for example by introducing a kilometer-dependent car toll or by reforming the state with the result only a legislative body. That would bring us billions, and then the words of the future would also be the states of the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e12151	Next, Mr Donabauer. Also selected 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e12173	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Anyone who knows the Austrian media landscape knows that it is not necessarily uncritical, and that is why it is all the more important – one only needs to read today's daily newspapers and reports – that the budget speech of the Minister of Finance and Vice-Chancellor yesterday is given a great deal of recognition. That is why I am saying this because today I have noticed the opposition of one in particular in the debates – in some I do not know whether they are simply polemising here, or whether they really feel comfortable in this role: this eternal remorse of bad developments in this country, of social cold, of ice-cold course. I can't understand that slowly anymore. If you already represent that, then remember when you're talking about ice-cold course, that we have a social rate of 29.4 percent today! Give me a second country in Europe, which has such a high value, where there is also such a high security of supply! Call me a second country in Europe, where it was thought in such a timely manner in the future and taken care of it! Call me a second country in Europe, which is also presenting such an active, forward-looking budget in this development, where we are mainly concerned with developing infrastructure and securing the economic location to boost employment, where we are also trying to ensure social security, and where we are clearly pursuing three objectives: First: Austria is expected to play an important role in Europe in the future, for example according to the motto: You can't always be the best, but you always have to be one of the best! Second: We want to make a generation-oriented policy. And the third thing: In addition, we want to secure the location in Austria and ensure a development where people feel comfortable, where everyone has the feeling of living in a beautiful home. – Perhaps this would also be a thought for some opposition politicians with regard to the next speeches.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e12205	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Also 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e12226	Mr President. Government members! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria can breathe up, the time of redistribution from the poor to the rich is over or is at least severely affected. Of course, the work of the previous government will still be affected, tag tax reform/Köst. [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: Positive!]] – That’s my opinion! I would like to comment briefly on two statements of today's day. On the one hand, in the context of the tax reform, it has also been said that the measures have a tax burden. I would point out that, essentially, the taxpayers in our country are the working people and the small businesses. The Group companies were relieved. Several attempts have also been made to give the impression that the previous government would have generated surpluses. That's only half the truth, ladies and gentlemen. The whole truth is that at the end of the term of office of the previous government the government debt was €25 billion higher than at the beginning. If the opposition does not find anything good in this budget, it is quite normal, that is the role of the opposition. But if you are serious, you will have to admit that the change of course has undoubtedly been initiated. We have promised more fairness, and more fairness will also exist. Less than 25 percent unemployed, the halving of youth unemployment, alone through the infrastructure sector, will be able to secure or create at least 100 000 jobs – that means more fairness. No one will have to live under the poverty line in Austria in the future, keyword Minimum security – that is, more fairness. 445 million € more for social security means more fairness. Or: Less recipe fee means more fairness – to mention just a few examples of this budget template. This budget is implementing what the SPÖ has promised, namely greater fairness, and we will therefore be happy to agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e12261	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klaus Hubert Auer. Also 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e12285	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Secretary of State! High house! That criticism comes from the opposition, as we have heard before, is quite to be expected, above all from the Greens and from the liberals, but absolutely unwarranted. But that the BZÖ has also agreed with this is a bit strange, because until recently you were there, and this budget is very similar to the previous budgets. This means that the objectives have not changed substantially. We of the ÖVP respect the objectives, we have not lost sight of the objectives. We may have lost sight of the partner. The fact that my Carinthian colleagues from the BZÖ also call this budget a burden budget is much more strange, because I can already remember that it is Carinthia that is no longer fulfilling the Stability Pact. Carinthia is now the concern child of the federal states in Austria. And if we have committed ourselves to a surplus and this surplus is no longer achieved in the event of an item, it has just been achieved a deficit, then it is no longer in conformity with the contract. The head of state does not need to begin to lament, he himself signed this Stability Pact in the previous year. Therefore, he does not have to threaten with a veto, but he should remember his signature and comply with this Stability Pact accordingly. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In addition, we strengthen rural areas with our measures, while others come with tax packages in the federal states, as is the case in Carinthia. On the other hand, we have contributed significantly to this through climate strategy and Green Pact. I can only add that there is a great deal of emphasis to be placed on the field of renewable energy. In particular, this strengthens forestry, biomass use. I should also like to mention that the whole of the forestry promotion is well-secured, even though the promotion directives must therefore be applied in a practical manner to ensure that training in the forestry sector is ensured. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's not decided yet! They're talking about things that haven't been decided yet!]] In particular, I can also mention the Försterschule in Bruck an der Mur, where a center for the training of forestry growth will be created. There are many resources reserved for this, and I am glad to see that. I should therefore like to conclude by thanking the forest economy in the future as a forestry farmer for its support in this budget. This is a great success, and as it is so beautiful: A good budget comes from a good EIA finance minister. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e12331	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. Also selected 2 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e12352	Mr President. Estimated ladies on the government bank! A lazy egg is in the budget nest, these are the Eurofighter millions, but we're going to pick up this nest in the investigation committee. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And all those who are still talking about transparency, cleanliness and correctness in this context, I would ask that they go to Easter once in a while and think about how things really are. The Easter truth finding is also part of the fact that we clarify the matter with the license once and for all. GPS license, date: twelve months before the delivery of the first aircraft – it is written, dear Secretary General of the ÖVP! Double it and say, I'm a rabbit and I don't know anything, that's really ridiculous in the face of the facts. Finally, an Easter prophecy: The search for the hidden gifts will be successful in the investigation committee, and finally all Members and the people will rejoice.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e12389	The next speaker is Mr Murauer. Also 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e12410	Dear ladies on the government bank! Mr President. Colleagues, if you talk about where the lazy eggs lie – I would be a little more careful. I would like to remind you that the Republic has an obligation to ensure the security of Austria, not only on the ground but also in the air, as part of its defence. You might have forgotten that. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Darmann.]] Secondly, The Republic has concluded a contract which has the content of obtaining airspace surveillance aircraft, i.e. Eurofighter, after an in-depth review. The Court of Auditors has examined this three times. Nothing has yet come out of the investigation committee. That is not what you want to take note of, but you will have to do so, even if you are prolonging the investigation committee until autumn. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: What about the Rumpold millions?]] So security is to be guaranteed in our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, our Lord's Minister of Defense – although he has signed it in the Government's agreement to comply with the Treaties – is to order the Eurofighters, to reduce the number of them, as he announces in the public, to delete spare parts camps – and plays with security. I ask the Minister: How does he want to protect the airspace? How does he want to maintain the security of Austria? What intermediate solutions are there? What cancellation costs are there? And why has he not established the software license so far? The ORF has called the Pentagon, and they have told him – and the Minister does not produce any results within several months and says he knows nothing about licenses, which give nothing, the plater should have ordered it a year ago. Now he's on it, now he has to order – in the sense of our security! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And of course, that we like to agree to the budget is not a question, especially as the focus on security – because we can and want to finance the planes, the ÖVP stands for – lies on work, research and development and social things.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e12466	The next speaker was Mr Jarolim. 2 minutes of self-elected speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e12487	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to congratulate my colleague Herb very briefly on his speech. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] Of course, he hit the nail on his head. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, to justice, I think I can say that I am pleased that there has been a really reasonable development. But as far as the Eurofighter acquisition is concerned, I have to say that this is really the worst contract I've seen in my previous career, but not only that, it's also a freight shop and a self-service shop, when you look at what the Rumpold family has done there. So I don't know how to approve it, ladies and gentlemen. It's a mortgage that's on the land, anyway, it's 4 billion schilling. We'll somehow get this under control, but I'd think that's anything but a good development. [[Abg. Head: It's better if you don't get that in your fingers!]] [[Abg. Murauer: We don't need you to do that!]] The Examining Committee is certainly the right one, Mr. Co., you experience it again and again, in order to avoid at least the worst evil from us here. That is why I would like to thank my colleague Herb once again. Ladies and gentlemen, there is one thing to say about the judicial budget: We had eleven prosecutors in the public prosecutor's office in Salzburg and an office force. It's clear that there's a need for justice to collapse. This has now been changed. There is also a significant improvement in parole aid, so that we can ensure that there is less crime due to fewer relapses. I think we're on the right track here. I am pleased that after the next four years we will certainly be able to draw a good balance here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e12549	The next speaker is Mr Obernoster. 2 minutes of self-elected speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e12570	Mr President. Ladies Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As a representative of tourism and the small industry, I would like to say that we are satisfied with these budget approaches. With regard to tourism: The application for the European Championship is well-informed, the guarantee for the 2014 Olympia has been issued. The ÖHT has a proper budget item. The small and medium-sized enterprises, as has been said, the whole area, were really well covered. As the Minister of Finance said yesterday in his budget speech, Austria is top in many areas. And where we're not tops, we still want to be tops. We are internationally in Europe around our economic location, to our security system, to our pension system, to our economic system, to our health system, really envy. I would like to say one thing to the opposition parties: We know there are points where we can improve. But we know that we Austrians are being envied internationally for our quality of life. I think it is the opposition's task to criticize and point out. But I don't think it's the opposition's job to make Austria feel sick. Austria is not sick! – I am proud to be able to live in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e12606	The next speaker is Mrs Pepper. 2 minutes speaking time. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e12628	Mr President. Ladies on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! What about security in the budget? These include, first and foremost, social security, but also security from violence and crime. And as far as the budgetary prospects for social security are concerned, there is every reason to be satisfied. Therefore, from this point of view: Congratulations on Social Ministers Buchinger for his negotiation success at this budget. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But there are also success reports in other security areas. The Minister of the Interior is pleased with an increase of €500 million and stable personnel conditions. However, we must not overlook the massive increase in labour pressure among the police officers, who are also struggling in the many overtime hours. I keep telling policemen how close the personnel situation is de facto. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: Why don't you do anything?]] At least two souls live in my chest with the Federal Army. Of course, I am pleased that Minister of Defense, Norbert Darabos, stresses that he has enough resources to deal with the upcoming tasks. At the same time, however, we also know that the payments for the Eurofighters are a huge lump, which really makes the German army work. A small part of it would be enough to modernise the federal army's equipment. One area where several security aspects meet – defence, modern equipment and the fight against crime, humane towing – is the use of assistance at the Austrian external borders, such as in Burgenland and Lower Austria. This form of border control will be ensured for the next time. I would like to thank the Minister of Defence for this on behalf of my compatriots, all citizens of the Burgenlands. As a conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, it can be said that, of course, we Social Democrats could present more budgetary resources in one area or another, but overall it is also a budget with social-democratic handwriting and corresponding perspectives. In this sense, I can wish the entire Federal Government every good for their future work.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e12670	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Iron gift. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e12692	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! As a former economic journalist, I recall the year 1993, which has a special role in the Austrian history of the budget, and at that time the debt level broke through for the first time the 1-billion schilling limit. The debate on the forthcoming monetary union began at that time. The focus was on the discussion on the criterion that public debt should no longer be higher than 60 percent of GDP. And this very criterion was not reached for the first time. In those times the commentators felt that, in view of the then deficit, which was twice as high as today's, it will last a very long time until this border is reached that it will only be in a very distant future. And today we are in this future, and it is time to congratulate Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] By changing fiscal mentality, we will not only reach the 60 percent limit in 2008, but also have scope for future-oriented investments for countries and people. You can also congratulate the pressurised forecasts of the Wifo, in particular on the growth of GDP, which will really be 3 percent. As an employee representative, I believe that workers too greater involvement in the success of companies in order to increase their net real income. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I therefore see it as the task of the plenary to create appropriate incentives for this. That is exactly what is happening in the black of this entire budget, namely dynamic and flexible activity with changes. It is not about the aspect of redistribution, but about the sensitive handling of funds. The new concept of saving, the careful budgeting, is confirmed by the 2007 budgeted expenditure, which is even below that of 2006. Ladies and gentlemen! The balance sheet of the Minister of Finance is excellent. There is something to inherit in this country – this heritage is the obligation of politics to maintain these values that strengthen this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e12752	The next speaker is Mr Dobnigg. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e12773	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Estimated ladies on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! This double budget has a very clear social-democratic sign and a social-democratic manuscript, and a change of course has also been initiated. The result is now more fairness and more social justice. And what is particularly important to us: Poison teeth have been drawn, especially in the social field, and here especially for Austrian pensioners. [[Abg. May. Darmann: This is the election speech from last year!]] Clear improvements to the situation so far are, for example: The double fees for the corridor board have been reduced. The discount in the old law is halved. There will no longer be any reductions in the heavy-worker's pension for particularly heavy-duty groups. Of course, it is also gratifying that child rearing times are upgraded for pensions. In the future, the contribution base for child rearing periods will be evaluated annually, i.e. adjusted to inflation. And people who do not yet meet the requirements for a disability pension, despite their reduced working capacity, are also to be helped. A very important and very important breakthrough was achieved in the area of annual pension adjustment. Here the price is now automatically balanced. A very large milestone has also been achieved in the area of minimum pension and compensatory allowances. The so-called hackler scheme will be extended until 2010. Here I admit, of course, that we of the SPÖ remain in line with our demand: 40 or 45 years are enough! We will continue to maintain this demand. Unsolved is still the major problem of care. But I am very confident that our highly competent Social Minister Erwin Buchinger will find a good solution here. I can only say that the word “social” fits the social minister Erwin Buchinger with 100 percent, and there will also be a good solution in the negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! In this sense, I wish this Federal Government a successful cooperation, a great deal of success in implementing the many positive projects and social improvements for the benefit of all Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e12808	The next speaker is Mr Pendl. Also 2 minutes of self-appointed speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e12829	Mr President. Ladies on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This double budget was discussed all day. I think it is a good, just, fair condition for policy in the next few years. But I would also like to thank you here and today, and this is a special honor and award for me. In order to implement these budgets, public service is needed, and I believe one must say to colleagues in the public service that they are doing a first-class job and that we are very proud of them. [[Congratulations and bravorage at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would also like to thank the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate very much on this occasion. You're always there for us around the clock. And I think we should also use the opportunity to thank them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Let me just address two points quickly. I am particularly pleased that we – we are always so proud of our public prosecutors and thank them very often – now have a committee of our own, in which we can discuss not only the reports of the public prosecutors, but also the concerns of the Austrians and the public prosecutors, and that we can then discuss them together in plenary. However, I would also like to speak to justice and congratulate the Minister of Justice for recognizing the need for action in the field of justice. And let us not forget that the Ministry of Justice is actually funding itself in three quarters; if you calculate the penalty, it is financed to 100 percent itself. It is also very important for me that, in the area of enforcement, which is an important area in the interest of internal security, it has been recognised that measures are necessary here. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I wish the Federal Government, under Chancellor Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer, much success in the interests of the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e12885	The next speaker is Mr Keck. Also 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e12906	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! A very positive aspect of the government agreement between SPÖ and ÖVP is the pooling of all competences in the field of domestic animal welfare. Despite the success of the Federal Unity of Animal Protection Act, it was so when this new government began that various ministries and state secretariats were also responsible for the various tasks of protecting our animals. We have now put an end to this confusion and put the competences into a single ministry. That is good, ladies and gentlemen, but there are still many problems in the field of animal welfare. We have a lot to do here. We need optimal control, we need money for the development of better breeding conditions, and we need resources for educational work on animal welfare. The 2007 and 2008 budgets provide for a number of things here. In the field of research projects, close to € 550 000 is invested in order to improve the position of cattle, chickens or goats or to evaluate the efficiency of the Animal Health Act with regard to the trade in zoos. Ladies and gentlemen! Together with the direct promotions, such as those at the Animal Protection Association or for investments in the Affenhaus Gänserndorf, we devote €1.3 million to animal welfare in this budget by 2009. That's a lot of money, but still too little to solve all the problems. I look at this individual project here and tell you that the monkey house in Gänserndorf would need a lot of things to really do this important work there. After the creation of the Animal Protection Act, it would be appropriate to install a dedicated pot with € 10 to 15 million annually. I really call for such a summit to be set up here and today and hope that my concerns will receive broad support not only from the new Minister for Animal Health, but also from Members of all the parliamentary parties.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e12945	The next speaker is Mr Rada. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e12967	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! I note that after so many speakers – I think it was the 110 – there has been a beneficial appearance since this new government had two new ministers in the field of education: not only the Minister of Education, who is now sitting there, but also the Minister of Science. It has changed a lot positively here. And above all, one thing has changed: We do not look beyond Vorarlberg, beyond the edge of the plate, but we see what is actually in the science and in the teaching area and where it goes on. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: A particularly funny argument!]] And here I would like to congratulate Mrs Schmied, who has already done a lot of things there. Ladies and gentlemen! It was about lower schooling numbers today. My dear friend Erwin Niederwieser said that lower schooling numbers do not automatically mean better education – he is right to 500 percent. That's not it! We have prepared appropriate models: The Minister of Education is with us in the search for educational models. She says again and again – and I am 100 percent with her as well –: individualize, promote children where they need it, offer children what they need and in future we all need for our society. – Mrs Minister, you are on a good path!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e13001	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Sonnberger; also two minutes' speaking time. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e13023	Mr President. Estimated members on the government bank! High house! Let's invest where it's important, said Vice Chancellor Molterer yesterday. For the promotion of housing, such an important topic, € 1.78 billion per year is available without the return flows in the countries, which is about 1 percent of the gross domestic product. The housing needs are projected with approximately 46 000 housing units per year, and that is why the promotion of housing is important in the future. where there is room available for the population so that the population can also afford the apartments; In fact, 20 percent of the housing stock is already supported apartments. And housing promotion is also important as an instrument for a successful employment policy. As much rent as you need, as much property for the widest population as possible, that's our credo. 57 percent of the population live in their own four walls – we have the ambitious goal that this will become even more. Let us be fair and sustainable about the future! Therefore, the ecologicalisation of housing development is also a topic. The lowest-energy and passive-house standards are the future topics which will be implemented in part by the countries in the housing sector and which will be further implemented in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e13062	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. According to § 69 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, I shall assign the Government documents 39 and 40 of the Supplements to the Budget Committee. The agenda is exhausted. [[18:02:34]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00018_d7e13097	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications 186/A to 189/A were submitted. Questions 600/J to 625/J have also been raised. A question by Mrs Rauch-Kallat, ladies and gentlemen, has also been put to the President of the National Council. Finally, a question by Mr Gahr, colleagues, has been put to the chairman of the Committee on the Court of Auditors. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 18.03 a.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
