ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I begin the continuation of the 1st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mr Maximilian Lavrinc, Mr Mag. Mr Janez Kopač, Mr Milan Kopušar, Mr Stanislav Brenčič for the start of the meeting, Mr Villa Trofenik and Mr Ivan Bozič for the beginning of the meeting. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall! [[39 present.]] The assembly is not adjourned, so we will re-vote and we will, once again, wait another second. We're rediscovering presence! I see my colleagues are still coming, maybe a few more seconds. [[40 present.]] The assembly is not concluded, we will wait fifteen - we will continue in ten minutes. [[...]] We'll resume the assembly at 10:30.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u2	Dear fellows, dear colleagues, this is the third time we have detected presence in the hall! [[52 present.]] That's how the assembly is concluded and it can decide. I also invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting, and I welcome them on this occasion. Today's continuation of the meeting will begin with the consideration of item 2 of the agenda, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The meeting will then be suspended so that the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission, which will draw up the 3rd item, can meet with a view to holding the assembly at the following 1st extraordinary meeting, the remaining 3rd and 4th items of the agenda. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Act, and a plan for a speedy procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members, Borut Pahor, Anton Anderlich, Anton Delak and Janez Podobnik. We begin with the first consideration of the bill. Does the proposer's representative want a word? Dear Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u3	When the coalition was formed and after the signing of the coalition agreement, one of the first conclusions was that, in order to improve the work of the government and the organisation of work in the government, it was also necessary to amend the government law, and since it was usually - and also - to work at the beginning of the mandate, before the Government was established, we together, on behalf of all four parliamentary groups Members Pahor, Podobnik and Delak, tabled a proposal for amendments to the government law, a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the government law. The solutions proposed in the law go primarily towards reducing the number of ministers or ministries, a different, more efficient organisation and therefore our aim was to determine the exact number of ministries in the law and you see this in section 9 of the Act. In this way, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Economic Relations and Development and the Ministry of Small Economy and Tourism will be proposed to join the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development in a new arrangement of 14 ministries and, in relation to the current law, adding the field of technology from the Ministry of Science and Technology. We further propose the merger of the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Education and Sport, and we also propose the establishment of a Ministry of Information Society, which is an essential difference from the regulation so far, due to the need for faster transformation of Slovenia into a modern information society under the conditions of rapid globalisation. This ministry will take over the field and tasks of telecommunications and mail from the current law of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, which will continue only as the Ministry of Transport Infrastructure. As a second important set of issues to be addressed by law, the new regulation of the Prime Minister's Office is also. In this way, the Office of the Prime Minister will carry out professional and other tasks primarily for the Prime Minister and will be chaired by the Head of the Office, who will thus have the position of Director of the Government Service. On the inside is also a newly proposed arrangement with the so-called Strategic Councils of the Prime Minister, which will be regulated as a result of changes to the law by a special act of the government. These strategic councils will consider and prepare development plans in their field, give opinions to ministers' proposals and, if necessary, prepare proposals for the Prime Minister. As I mentioned, this is, of course, what it would mean to remedy the weaknesses that the government or governments have encountered during the period when liberal democracy in the government and when Dr. Janez Drnovšek led the government, and the best knowledge of which things were weak, inconsequential, and especially ineffective in the organization, is envisaged to remedy these weaknesses. In this series of issues, a particular weight or particular problem has also been experienced on the working body yesterday - the role of the Minister's Councillor, which must be explicitly stated that it is not a function that has the original powers of a minister or anyone else - it is therefore an exclusive and sole task - to assist the Prime Minister in carrying out his coordinating tasks. Of course, what needs to be said is not to be hierarchically superior, they will not be hierarchically superior to ministers, which has caused some dilemma and some controversy in the public as well. This is what is essential, and I think there are all the reasons for us to adopt the law quickly. The Committee has also supported this rapid procedure and I propose that the assembly act in the same manner and that it adopts the law in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u4	Thank you very much to the representative of the motioners. Since the proposal for a law has also been considered by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body, I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the proposal for a law. Mr. Franz Kangler, Your Honor, please - Vice-President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u5	At its 1st extraordinary meeting on 16.11., the Internal Policy Committee addressed the draft law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, a rapid procedure. As the applicant has already said, in the introduction, the representative of the applicants explained the reasons for the adoption of the draft law by means of a rapid procedure. The amendments and additions to the Government Act must be adopted before the creation of a new government after the constitution of the National Assembly. In view of this, their adoption of the rapid procedure dictates the needs of the State, because it is directly in its interest to form and act on new rights as soon as possible. It was further stressed that the proposal for a law provides for a more appropriate number of ministries covering logically rounded work areas. The new organisation of the government is intended to ensure that it is organised more appropriately and more responsively. Due to the time constraints, the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs was unable to draw up a written opinion on the draft law before the meeting of the Committee, as the representative of the Secretariat orally explained. It was therefore said that the secretariat could only draw attention to the essential comments of a principled nature. In this regard, the Vice-President of the Committee, Paula Rupar, also tabled a procedural proposal to suspend the meeting of the Internal Policy Committee until the secretariat's written opinion on legislation and legal matters is drawn up. The Committee voted on this and did not support the proposal. The discussion below expressed concerns about the content of the individual solutions presented by the proposal for a law. Most of the comments referred to the envisaged solutions to Article 4, which amend Chapter IV, relating to the areas of government organisation. Thus, the greatest concerns have been raised under this Chapter to the provisions of Articles 23 and 24, under which the Prime Minister may establish a Strategic Council, which is normally led by ministerial councils. Following the meeting, the Committee received a written opinion from the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs and the amendments of the Group of Members, signed first by Majdo Shirca to the first paragraph of Article 1 and the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. However, only some substantial and substantive comments and comments from the secretariat on legislation and legal matters were made by the representative of the proposers, suggesting that a reasonable deadline should be laid down for the submission of amendments, which is not an obstacle, so as not to prevent the mother's working body from taking a definitive position on individual articles and amendments already tabled and also to decide on the proposal for a law in its entirety. Following the conclusion of the consideration of the proposed legislative text, the Committee decided to propose to the National Assembly that, following a prompt examination of the draft law, it should adopt a law amending and supplementing the law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in its entirety.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President Kangler. Would you like to speak with the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mr Sašo Pece has applied in writing on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u7	Your Honor! On behalf of the Slovenian National Party as an opposition party in this and all previous mandates, we generally oppose the adoption of this law, because the opposition, as one healthy element of parliamentary democracy, is harmed by this law in every way. It is a shame because we are destroying the possibility of equal dialogue and the impact on the functioning of the government and on the functioning of government services. Unfortunately, it happened, as we said yesterday, that one of the political parties had won this election too strongly and was trying to introduce some kind of dictatorship. That's exactly what this law leads to. This leads to organisationally including certain tampons that will reduce the responsibility of either individual ministers or government presidents through so-called ministerial councillors. On the other hand, we have been accustomed to the procedure so far, that the opposition Member could influence the government's work at the beginning through appointment to interpretation and at the final stage to ask questions and initiatives. In short, there were possibilities for communication, namely mandatory communication, which established a certain hierarchical relationship between the parliamentary group, Members or the national assembly on the one hand and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the other. We have also proposed several amendments in the Slovenian National Party, which we will present later and we will simply not withdraw from them. This is the only thing we have left in this democratic society, as you call it, is. As far as the introductory explanations are concerned, I must say that in this case the bill's proposer - i.e. the four signatories - has been strongly pushed into the topic, especially in the third section of the accompanying letter, which writes about the financial implications. It is pure deception, pure deception, perhaps to this public or to all those who hold this document in hand. In this case, the law of which the proposer says it will bring a certain rationalisation into our country - this fact is not true. We need to be aware that under the new law we will have an even bigger government, let's say a team, which will change if we make the sum, which was also said yesterday on the commission or committee for internal policy, from the former 17 to today 18 + 1 - let's say - ministers. So it's just an increase. Of course, you did not appoint ministers anymore, but you did, in addition to the normal 14 people, for whom you speak so much, that you have reduced them, made them, or attributed two more without a source, and two minister councilors, whose purpose no one knows or knows a good purpose. It's pure deception and a loss of responsibility. This country, at this point in time, is ahead of these tasks that it is facing, but which are not in any way difficult - I sincerely hope that the government will know them, let's say that it will solve them positively, with just these two, let's say to these foreigners, or to the authorities that are setting up new ones in June - confused responsibility. In short, in this country, after the new adoption of this law, which you imposed on us, which you wrote this morning, you wanted to pass through the committees, and in the evening you had already accepted; in short, I wanted to say, the procedure was completely wrong. Nor did the representative of the secretariat want to give his opinion, although I think it is logical and normal for the representatives of the Law Service to speak in a normal manner. In short, we do not intend to support this law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Second, a representative of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, Mr Miran Potrč, addressed the debate in writing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. A law was introduced in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on changes and additions to the Government Act, which was tabled by a fellow Member from the United List of Social Democrats, Borut Pahor and Dr Cyril Ribičič. The purpose of this law was to try, on many other issues, to achieve greater rationalisation of government work mainly by reducing the number of ministerial posts, so the proposal contained the idea that the number of ministers without a charter should be limited, not unlimited and discretionary, given to each government or to the President to appoint them, as far as he considers it prudent at that time. Secondly, it was the wish of the candidates to limit the number of State secretaries in individual ministries to the maximum number of two State secretaries in a single ministry, in that one of these State secretaries would serve primarily as Deputy Minister and thus in a significant part as a political function - because the Minister has both political and administrative functions - and the other State Secretary would indeed be the highest administrative officer in the hierarchy and, to say the career administrative function. This government law in the National Assembly did not come up with a hearing. He remained with the signature and with the newly elected Member, Mr Pahor, in the procedure, so it was also in some way right to take into account when a new coalition was formed and thought about a new law. In preparing for the coalition treaty, we also agreed in the United List of Social Democrats that it is right and prudent to do more for the rationalisation of the government. We considered that the way to do this is also through the merger of some departments, but the way to do so is also by maintaining the proposal to limit the number of ministers without a charter. On this basis, there has been a proposal contained in this law, which Mr Anderlič explained in substance. The Prime Minister now, at the time of the candidate for a term of office, estimated that it would be useful to organise a government service in a different way and to ensure that the Prime Minister could also, within his government service, have advisers to assist him in carrying out his presidential tasks, in such a way as to advise him on the decisions he should take, but not to take decisions in his place. And it would be useful to have, in the same way as the worlds and strategic worlds in many other countries, the possibility of creating strategic worlds. In the United Social Democrats Group, we agreed, in principle, on such solutions, and considered it right to prepare changes and amendments to the Government Act in this direction. There were also ideas that some essential systemic solutions would be adopted quickly, and a common agreement was announced - then with future coalition partners - that this would not make sense, because it could indeed reach out to many institutions, including constitutional ones, government relations and the state council, and so on, which would not be prudent to accept quickly. In the UK Group of Members of the Social Democrats, we agreed that the law should be adopted quickly. We believe that only the adoption of legislation after a rapid procedure with very limited content that I have tried to describe; the first part includes the reduction of resources and the second part of the organisation of the Prime Minister's Office is prudent and necessary because it is only a condition that the government should be reorganised at the time of its creation and that those ministers are appointed, according to the Prime Minister and the Coalition, who are expected to form a government. If such a law were to be adopted on a regular basis, of course it would not be possible and it would now be necessary to appoint ministers after, say, a month, two, three; when the law was passed, these ministers should be amended. This does not seem reasonable to us, and we believe that in this part of the proposal that the law should be adopted in a fast procedure is neither non-systematic nor does it mean any pressure on the opposition to want the government coalition not to give the opposition the opportunity to decide on these issues. Not particularly because there were many ideas in the public that, until the change in the composition of the government was reported, not because the opposition's wish - as we were in the previous term - was that the government was rationalising and meant to reduce the number of ministries and, although uncomfortably, I must say that also because, of course, it was the responsibility of the coalition to determine the composition of the government. That is why it is right to understand that it is not impossible to propose that we want the composition of a government with these and these resources, not with any other. As for some warnings concerning the Council of Strategic and the position of the Ministers of the Council, I must say that in the United List of Social Democrats and also in the coalition, we have carefully considered the reasoned comments made by the Secretariat, which we have also received from some legal experts and experts and through the prepared amendments - in my opinion, both those tabled by colleague Anderlich, as well as those we have submitted with the signatures of the parliamentary groups - both of which we have jointly - have significantly improved the content of the law in this area. I hope personally, I will be grateful if, in this direction, the secretariat also says its opinion on the legislation that there can now no longer be a speech on the substantive issues that we are establishing an institution which can be disputed from the point of view of the Constitution; that there can be no longer any doubt that the ministers of the councils could take over and perform any functions that have been given to the Prime Minister following the suspension of the Prime Minister, which has been warned; that, for this reason, there can be no reason to speak about the fact that the Minister's Councils being any superminist, who would have a mandate on behalf of the Prime Minister, I would say that they are coordinating their work in a way that might mean taking over the work of their functions; and that the Strategic Councils, which was the comment and the Secretariat's warning, have, for the first time: a clear mandate, and the second time, they are not preparing a decision, which was also a warning because they are taking the decision. I think that in this direction, at least as far as I am concerned, in addition to other non-essential but less important comments made by the Secretariat and on which Members and Members of Parliament will be placed on the table at any time, now-formed solutions, which mean a sufficiently transparent, clear, consistent law, which will allow and help to form the government in a way that, according to the ideas of the Prime Minister and the Coalition, can successfully carry out its functions. What concerns us in the United List of Social Democrats does not mean that many issues - the election of the President, the appointment of the Government, the functions of the Government, relations with the National Assembly and the like - remain systemic, can also be unresolved or open, but this must be a matter that we will deal with in a regular procedure, not with the desire to settle, I would say, soon. It is our wish that the law be adopted so that it can be applied as soon as possible and that formal proposals for ministers can be made immediately after the entry into force, and that a procedure has been carried out, which is currently envisaged and necessary for the State Assembly to elect ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Miran Potch. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, I give the floor to my colleague, Cveti Zalokar-Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, I would like to inform you that we will fully support both the procedure and the content of the law on changes and additions to the Government Act. We'll be brief.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Since no one has applied in writing anymore, we limit the debate of the other Members - I apologize. [[...]] Mr Bogdan Barovic signed up in writing as a Member of Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u13	Your Honor! The main position on the bill has already been put forward by his colleague, Saša Peca. Well, I'm a member of the parent body, and then in the party we've assessed that this bill is based on who the proposer is and according to the composition of the coalition will be adopted. And since we estimate that it will be adopted, we wanted to engage constructively in this law and change what we succeeded in reading and partially studying, for which there was no more time, so to change what we feel we need to change just so that we can collectively form a law on government that can bring good in the future. We have drawn up two amendments to Article 4 or Article 2 of the proposal and Article 4 of the proposal. The point is that Article 2 of the proposal is very inaccurate, because in parliamentary democracy, as we have in the Republic of Slovenia, the Prime Minister is only the first person in the country, and Article 2 states that the Prime Minister, i.e. "may be appointed his deputy". Our view is that it can't be the term "may" but that it has to turn into a "sea". The explanation is simple, the Prime Minister "must" in the case of his deputy's absence, not "may". Well, more important to us was our amendment to Article 4 of the proposal. It is only and only a matter of strict respect for Article 110 of the Constitution, which governs the relationship between the government, ministers and the national assembly. At the time of this amendment, we wanted the text "... the Minister's Councillor is appointed and dismissed by the Prime Minister" to be replaced by "the Minister's Councillor on a proposal from the Prime Minister is appointed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia." Our opinion is that the Minister's Councillor is quite equal to ministers, we will respect the 110th Article of the Constitution and the National Assembly will retain two of its three functions, retaining its supervisory role and retaining its role of appointment. On the Committee, unfortunately, the fourth or our amendment to Article 4 of the proposal was not adopted yesterday, which in our opinion is not good. We will insist on our proposals, otherwise we will not support the rules of law or proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u14	Thank you very much. The debate is now open, but the Rules of Procedure are limited to five minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to discuss this, please, I give you my word. Mr. Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Something else about the position of Minister's Councillor. I think it might be useful to think about the following. One of the systemic flaws that we have found to be making the government's work more difficult and also the government's communication with Parliament, and in particular the government's effectiveness, is that ministers, including individual ministers, are actually appointed by the National Assembly, not by the Prime Minister. We all know this has led to a complete lack of communication between the departments and even a lack of dialogue between the departments and a lack of interdepartmental coordination regarding the resolution of certain, very important problems in our society. In this light, the role of the Minister's Councillor as coordinator for certain areas can also be very welcome and this can, in my opinion, enable better communication between the National Assembly and the executive branch of power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? As no one seems to want to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the general debate. Since the amendments were recently tabled, the amendment review is not yet ready. To allow the work of the assembly to take place smoothly, I interrupt the meeting in 30 minutes. Here you go, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u17	I would suggest that you do not interrupt the meeting in order to allow the review of the amendments to be made. The amendments always come in a fast procedure until the completion of the second reading hearing, and in this case you can expect more. And given that Members of Parliament who are empowered - the government has not been involved in this law in any way - have also tabled amendments and parliamentary groups, and we can follow the amendments tabled and we do not really need to review the amendments. I suggest we take a decision on the amendments. You can also consider this a procedural proposal and put it to a vote if you find it controversial.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u18	Given that there is a procedural proposal and we will be able to assess through the vote how familiar Members are with the amendments tabled. Dear colleagues, please note the presence! There are 57 Members and Members present. We are voting on Mr Anderlich's procedural proposal not to wait for the amendments to be reviewed, but to put each individual amendment to an individual article into consideration. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against six.]] The procedural proposal to continue is adopted. There's going to be a little bit of a complication, considering the last minute the amendments came to the table. So I ask the assembly to allow the technical services, with a 10-minute interruption, to gather the amendments, however, because they have come to the table at this moment. So I'll have the session suspended by 11:15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u19	Dear colleagues, colleagues!We know the presence! I'm asking for peace in the hall. We're picking up the presence! [[Thirty-two present.]] The assembly is not adjourned, so we will repeat it because colleagues are still coming. We're picking up the presence, another time! [[52 present.]] The assembly is adjourned, so it can be decided. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We're picking up the presence! 49 Members and Members are present. We are voting on a proposal that I have just read. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. That is why we are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of Ms Majde Širca to this article and four parliamentary groups: LDS, Consolidated Lists, SLS+SKD of the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS. Anybody want a word? Mrs. Majda Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u20	Thank you very much. The amendment that has been tabled, given that Slovenian legal acts are mainly written in men's sex, I propose that in the future, and even in this case, women's sex will also be used, taking into account the opinions of the secretariat of the National Assembly to examine some practical solution in the future to address this political inadequacy. However, the proposal is designed to make use of double-sex use in legislation, at least Article 1, or in the introductory articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mrs Širca, the amendment reads as follows: In the first paragraph of Article 1, before the word 'president', the word 'president' is added before the word'minister', or before the word'minister'. Is this an amendment with such content? Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Since no one wants to say another word, we're going to make a decision. I am putting Mrs Shirca's amendment to Article 1 to the vote. We're picking up the presence! There are 55 Members and Members present. We are voting on Mrs Shirce's amendment to Article 1 of the law. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against two.]] I note that Mrs Shirce's amendment and the Group of Members have been adopted. Article 1 has also been amended by the parliamentary groups, as I mentioned earlier, and I am putting this amendment to the vote. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. Who is behind the amendments of the Liberal Democrats of Slovenia, the United List of Social Democrats, SLS + SKD - Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS to Article 1? [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the amendment of the four groups of Members has been adopted. I shall put to the vote Article 1 in full. We're voting! There are 55 Members and Members present. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that Article 1 is fully adopted. We are moving on to Article 2 and the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and this amendment. Who wants a word? Here you go, Mr. Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u22	As candidates, we reiterate that, while this is a change of language, I think that the actual function, meaning and role of the Prime Minister is such that in Article 2, the words "may be defined" should be replaced by "must be set within 15 days of the first meeting". This is mainly about the continuity of the government's work in the absence of the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u23	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] If not, I shall put to the vote the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 2. 52 Members and Members are present. We are voting on the amendment to the 2nd Article of the Slovenian National Party Group. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. I shall put Article 2 to the vote in full. There are 53 Members and Members present. I vote on Article 2 in full. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the text of Article 2 is fully adopted. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the eight amendments to this Article. The first proposed by Anton Anderlič, his mother's working body supports him; the second proposed by the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, his mother's working body does not support him; the third proposed amendment by Anton Anderlič, his mother's working body supports him; the fifth proposed amendment by Anton Partlič, the decisions of his mother's working body are not here; the sixth amendment: the proposals by DeSUS, LDS, SKD+SLS and the combined list of decisions by the mother's working body are not there; the seven amendments proposed by the same four members are not the same as the decision of the parent working body on these amendments. Who wants a debate? May I, Mr Barovic, have him checked in earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u24	Once again as the proposer or representative of the Slovenian National Party, the parliamentary group. We spoke a lot on the committee yesterday about our amendment to Article 4 of the proposal. My colleagues wanted to tell me that the function, the role of the Minister's Councillor, should be only co-ordinated, yet it is already in some parts of the 24th article of the current law that is already equivalent to the Minister. And in our belief, that is, the conviction of the parliamentary group, sometimes the Minister's Council will probably have some enforcement power, a function, and it seems to me that it is right for us to think that only the National Assembly has its supervisory function to maintain it, that I have the opportunity for each case of interpretation or of the questions and initiatives sent. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Barovich. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u26	Thank you very much. First of all, I apologize, we have three amendments to Mr Anderlich, and it has been said that they are four to 24th. So, if you can, you might read to see three I do, but for four I have to say, I can't find that fourth. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u27	There's three of them.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u28	But there's three.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u29	There's three of them, yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u30	Good. That's one. Secondly, I would like to say a few sentences to the amendment, which was defined as another one, and this is the amendment that my colleague Barovic has just been talking about. I think we want no new ministers to be formed. At least what I am proposing or, I mean, a co-proposer or a parliamentary group that agrees with the law is a matter, I do not want the institution of new ministers to be formed. I do not want the institution of the superministers to be formed, I do not want this number to increase indefinitely, and therefore I do not understand and ask whether this is the goal of colleagues from the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Indeed, we have now done everything we can to define the role of Minister Councilor as an advisory function for the Prime Minister. And it is normal for the Prime Minister to choose counsellors, and it is normal for the Adviser to answer to the Prime Minister without responding to the National Assembly. Because the President of the Government, on behalf of the government, is responsible to the National Assembly after all through the Government's interpretation, I don't know, a constitutional accusation and so forth. And if this amendment had been adopted, in fact, we would have made a completely non-systemic solution, which would have been the opposite -- I understand it myself, with other intentions, which the Slovenian National Party had advocated in its explanation of the opposition to the law when it said, in fact, this meant the establishment of new institutions, the possibility that the government would act in a different way. I would appreciate it if my colleagues could explain it even better if they agreed to withdraw this amendment if it remained because I do not want new ministers, but vice versa; I cannot support such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Saša Peca has entered the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u32	Today, all in a row in the government coalition, of course, corresponds to as much confusion as possible, so you can hide your business. And that's what two minister councillors are all about. Remember, however, that every term has yet to be fought, but two or three years later you will be separated from each other and will be able to reform the law once again. It's not about the other one. Mr. Potch, you're bluffing a little bit. These two minister councillors are purely ordinary. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Madam President, please create peace in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u33	Mr Sašo Pece, this is the same for you - please do not insult your colleagues. Here you go, keep going!
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u34	All I wanted was for you to allow me to speak in peace, and for the speakers to sign up later. No, in the case of a Ministerial Adviser from credit ratings they have through pay and through other working conditions, as specified above, the same rules apply to the Minister [[...]] [[Cut the recording.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u35	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u36	Turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Diaci, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u38	In the Young Slovenia Party, we estimate that the proposal for the division of ministers and ministerial councilors is positive mainly because the Minister is in some way a political function, and the Minister's Councillor, as we see it, is primarily a professional function, so we support this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to say another word, we're going to make a decision. I shall put to the vote the first amendment to Article 4. Let's find out who's here!
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u40	It's important to know who the proposer is, otherwise we won't know. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u41	The amendment is proposed by Anton Anderlič, which reads: "In Article 23, the first paragraph is amended to read: 'The Prime Minister may establish strategic councils. The creation act lays down the tasks and work areas of the Strategic Council. The Strategic Councils in their work area, at the proposal of the Prime Minister, address individual issues and advise and prepare opinions for the Prime Minister." We are voting on such an amendment. There are 54 Members and Members present. We are voting on the amendment that I just read. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the amendment of Mr Anton Anderlich has been adopted. I put to the vote the second amendment of the drafter of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, which reads: "In the 24th article of the current law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the text of the "Ministerial Councillor is appointed and dismissed by the Prime Minister" is replaced by "Ministerial Council of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal from the Prime Minister." There are 57 Members and Members present. We are voting on the amendment of the SNS's proposal, which I have just read. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 46.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. I put to the vote the third amendment of the proposaler, Mr Anderlič Anton, which reads: "In the second paragraph of Article 24, the words 'government on a proposal' shall be added after the word 'government on a proposal', and the word 'president' shall be replaced by the word 'president'." There are 55 Members and Members present. We are voting on the third amendment in the text, as I read it. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the third amendment of Mr Tonet Anderlich's proposal has been adopted. I put to the vote the fourth amendment by Mr Tonet Anderlič, which reads as follows: "In the second paragraph of Article 24, the Minister Councillor advises and formulates proposals for the Prime Minister in the exercise of his constitutional and legal powers to ensure the unity of the political and administrative direction of the government and the coordination of the work of ministers". There are 54 Members and Members present. We are voting on the fourth amendment, proposed by Tonet Anderlič, in the text presented. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the fourth amendment of Mr Tonet Anderlich was adopted. I put to the vote the fifth amendment, proposed by Anton Partljič, reads: "Article 24 replaces the third and fourth paragraphs by a new third paragraph, which reads as follows: 'For the rights of the Minister's Councillor, as regards salary, compensation, other personal benefits, reimbursements, social security and leave and termination rights, the provisions of the Law on Officials in the State Authorities shall apply mutatis mutandis. There are 48 Members and Members present. We are voting on the fifth amendment of Mr Tonet Partljič, in the text presented. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment of Mr Tonet Partljič's proposal has been adopted. I am voting on the sixth amendment, the candidates are DeSUS, LDS, SLS+SKD and the United List of Social Democrats, in the following text: "In the sixth paragraph of Article 25, the text referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article is added to the word'services'; the text'ministers in charge of ministries' shall be replaced by the text 'the Minister shall have them in the composition of the Ministry'." There are 55 Members and Members present. We turn to the vote on the sixth amendment of the drafters, in the text presented. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the sixth amendment was adopted. I put to the vote the seven amendments, which are the same parliamentary groups as before, in the following text: "In the second paragraph of Article 25b, the words 'and shall be deleted' shall be added 'and shall be dissolved'. In the third paragraph, the words 'and shall be deleted' shall be inserted after the word 'name'. 55 Members and Members present. We are voting on the seventh amendment of the motioners, as I have stated, and in the text presented. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the seventh amendment has been adopted. I put to the vote the eight amendments of the same motions, which read: "In Article 25c, the second sentence of paragraph 3 shall be amended to read: At the end of the term of the Prime Minister or Minister, the Secretary of State must offer his resignation to the new Prime Minister or Minister on the date of their oath. In paragraph 4, the words "the Prime Minister or the Minister" shall be replaced by "the same". There are 53 Members and Members present. Who is behind the eighth amendment in the text presented? [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the eighth amendment has been adopted. In doing so, we have exhausted the vote on the amendments. I shall put Article 4 to the vote in full. There are 50 Members and Members present. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against two.]] I note that Article 4 is fully adopted. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the drafters of DeSUS, LDS, SLS + SKD - Slovenian People's Party and the United List of Social Democrats. Who wants a word? Since no one wants to say a word, we are going to vote on the amendment, which reads: "Article 5 is amended by saying: 'The Law on the Organisation and Work Area of the Ministries shall comply with the provisions of this Act no later than 6 months from the day the Ministers swear." There are 51 Members and Members present. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment, which has completely amended Article 5, has been adopted and therefore we will not vote in full on the Article. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 6 of the DeSUS, LDS, SLS + SKD, the United List of Social Democrats, which reads as follows: "Article 6 is deleted." Anybody want a word? Since no one wants to say a word, I'm putting an amendment to the vote. 52 Members and Members are present. We vote on the amendment to Article 6. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment is fully adopted, the article is lined up and we do not vote on it. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment to Article 7, namely, the proposals for four groups of Members. The amendment reads: "From the day the ministers swear, and until the date of the implementation of the law referred to in Article 5 of this Law continues to work..." Do I need to read you a full amendment? You have him in front of you. Thank you. Anybody want a word? Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u42	It takes one editorial amendment or correction, namely, that in the first line "from the day they swear..." the word "competent ministers..." rises up for that word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u43	Anyone else want a word? Because he doesn't want to, we're going to make a decision. I am putting to the vote the amendment to Article 7 in the text before you with the editorial correction "from the day the competent ministers swear." 52 Members and Members are present. We vote on the amendment to Article 7. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against three.]] The amendment was accepted. Since the article has been completely amended, we do not vote on the article. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment to Article 8 of the proposed four groups of Members, as in the previous case: the amendment reads: Article 8 amends the first paragraph by reading: "From the day of the oath of the Minister of Information Society, the Ministry of Information Society begins its work. It consists of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Telecommunications and the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Mail and Telecommunications. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I am putting to the vote the amendment that has been presented. There are 51 Members and Members present. We vote on the amendment to Article 8. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I shall put Article 8 to the vote in full. 52 Members and Members are present. We vote on Article 8 as a whole. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment to Article 8 has been adopted, that Article 8 has, I apologize, been fully adopted. I am putting forward an amendment to Article 9 of the proposal for four groups of Members in the debate, paragraph 9 being amended to read as follows. You have the article in front of you. I don't need to read it. Anybody want a word? Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u44	As in the amendment to Article 7, it is also necessary to correct the last paragraph of this Article, in the third line, where the three words 'the functions of the Government' are deleted and replaced by the three words 'the oaths of the competent ministers'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u45	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? If not, I am putting to the vote an amendment to Article 9, supplemented by Mr Anderlich's editorial correction. There are 53 Members and Members present. Who's in favour of an amendment with an addition to the editorial statement? [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against two.]] I find that the amendment with editorial corrections has been adopted. Since the article has been completely amended, we will not vote on it. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment to Article 10 of the proposal for four groups of Members, the first paragraph of Article 10 is amended to read: "The government shall align the organisation and tasks of government services with this law within 6 months of the law being implemented." The second and third paragraphs are deleted and the words 'except those which have not yet expired under the law' are added after the word 'law' in the fourth paragraph. Anybody want a word? If not, I am putting the amendment to Article 10, which has been put to the vote. There are 54 Members and Members present. Who's behind the amendment to Article 10? [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the amendment to Article 10 has been adopted. I shall put Article 10 to the vote in full. There are 51 Members and Members present. We are voting on Article 10 as a whole. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against four.]] I note that Article 10 is fully adopted. We're done with the amendments. Other articles to which amendments have not been tabled. We therefore held a debate on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Who wants a word? Since no one wants to say a word, I am putting to the vote the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. There are 51 Members and Members present. We vote on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the rest of the articles have been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Does anyone want to discuss the title of the law? Because you don't want to, we're going to the vote. I'm putting the title of the law to the vote. 54 Members and Members present. We vote on the title of the law as a whole, which has been submitted. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against two.]] I find that the title of the law has been fully adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that amendments to the draft law were adopted in the second reading. If qualified applicants wish to table amendments to this article, please do so. [[You don't want to.]] Before that, I ask, does anyone want to discuss the marriage proposal in its entirety? We're done voting on the amendments. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs if the adopted amendments may violate the mutual compatibility of the provisions of the law. [[It's not.]] Thank you very much. We are moving on to a full vote on the law. There are 53 Members and Members present. We are voting on the bill as a whole. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this item on the agenda and at the same time also meet to interrupt. You will be informed further after consultation at the College of the President of the National Assembly within 10 minutes. Thank you very much.
