ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u1	The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall meet. Gently welcomed at the 1st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! I am therefore initiating the first extraordinary meeting convened by me on the basis of Article 51, paragraphs 1 and 2, and Article 54 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: for the moment, I have a notice and an apology for Mr Maximilian Lavrinc. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall! [[I note that there are 59 Members and Members present in the Chamber.]] That's how the assembly is concluded and it can decide. I invited the candidate for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovska, and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I welcome everyone. Before setting the agenda for this meeting, we will also proceed with the procedure for the adoption of the minutes of the 1st meeting of the National Assembly. The log is available in the computer network. Does anyone present require a change or supplement or any other comment on the minutes? Since there are no comments to the minutes of the 1st meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, we are moving on to a decision on the adoption of the minutes. Let's find out who's here! [[I note that there are 60 Members present in the Chamber.]] We vote on the acceptance of the minutes. Those colleagues and colleagues who do not have the right to vote should report their presence and decision by raising their hands! [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] We are moving on to DETERMINATION OF DAY LINE 1. Extraordinary sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference to 16 November 2000. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The National Assembly shall first decide on proposals for individual cases to be withdrawn from the agenda, then on proposals for an extension of the agenda and for the proposed extension, where appropriate, to shorten the deadlines laid down in Article 52 of this Rules of Procedure, and finally on proposals for a rapid procedure and reduced procedure. We are moving on to proposals to withdraw each item from the agenda. We have not received a written motion to withdraw. Comrade Peca, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u2	On behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we propose to withdraw from today's draft agenda item 2 - a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We are convinced that it is too important material to be dealt with by the system, "what is written in the morning is accepted in the evening". I think that Slovenia, a developed democratic society, in particular, deserves at least a written opinion from the Legal Affairs Secretariat, for the legal matter of the legal matter. The same opinion was also reflected in the good work of the previously convened Commission or of the Committee on Internal Policy, where there was also a disagreement. I propose that Members present support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u4	Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, Marko Diaci. On the Internal Policy Committee, it was agreed that, following the first item of the agenda, the meeting would be suspended and would then continue to work and then we would agree.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word from the Members and Members? Of course, if he is also the leader of the Group of Members. [[No, no, ……]] Does the proposer wish to further substantiate his proposal? [[No, no, ……]] I shall put to the vote his proposal to withdraw that item from the agenda. I ask Members and Members to register their presence. There are 64 Members and Members present. We are voting on the proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda. [[The vote was 2.]] [[54 Members.]] In view of the outcome of the vote, I note that the proposal to withdraw this item from the agenda has not been adopted. Excuse me? Comrade Companion, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u6	Dear Mr. President! Today we accept the agenda for the session, at which we will also elect the President, the candidate for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. We accept the agenda. I ask you, Mr President, have you been informed of the reasons why there are no two parliamentary groups in the Chamber? I think it would be good for our work to be informed whether it is obstruction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u7	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Podobnik. I was not officially informed by the letter, but this is more than obvious from the absence of our colleagues and colleagues from two parliamentary groups. Maybe it's right or wrong to say that there were also phone conversations, of course, on my part, mainly so that it wouldn't happen. I do not think it is my duty or my right to justify their absence on behalf of colleagues and colleagues who are not present today. I imagine that this is due to the fact that we have not been able to agree to date on the design of working bodies and on the management of these working bodies; I suppose so, but, of course, colleagues and colleagues from both parliamentary groups will say so. However, I must say explicitly and very loudly here, to you who are here in the Chamber, as well as to those with whom I have had an informal conversation: today the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will decide on the candidate for Prime Minister. I think that none of us is more aware of how important this question is, and whether or not a bokandat has received the support of this or one of the Members, Members and Members of Parliament, it is important that we all cooperate and decide on it. As much as it was in my power, I have endeavoured to have all Members and Members present today. Of course, I cannot influence the decision of those who are not. I also use this address to invite them back to the hall. That's all I can say about the powers I have. That's the answer to your procedural question. Well, I see my buddy Pache has another one. Please, my friend Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u8	Again, thank you for your word. Procedurally, in terms of the above-mentioned vote. In the parliamentary group, all four of us voted in favour of the proposal, and there were only two in favour of the proposal. We request that the meeting be suspended and that voting facilities be checked at least within the framework of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u9	My friend Peca, I think it would be best if you let me know right away. Comrade Podobnik has already raised his hand and asked a procedural question to which I answered. Of course, one thing is clear: none of us want any doubt to come to the vote. That's clear. If - and this is an important question - whoever thinks that anything wrong with the voting devices will be checked immediately. I would also like to make use of this time for, of course, once again, the informal significance with colleagues from both opposition parliamentary groups, so that perhaps everyone can continue the meeting together. I'm adjourning the session for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members, we are continuing our work. We're picking up the presence in the hall! [[52 Members and Members.]] The assembly is adjourned and we can proceed with the work. First of all, an explanation concerning the intervention of Comrade Pečet. The information documentation sector has written down the following explanation. In checking the voting apparatus, we found that the voting unit of Ambassador Sonja Areh-Lavrič did not work properly. That is why we have replaced the voting unit and conducted a test vote and found that the voting system is now functioning flawlessly. This means that we must repeat the previous vote. This is a vote on the proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda. In this regard, we note the presence in the hall. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 54.]] The National Assembly voted not to accept the withdrawal proposal. I'm asking for peace in the hall. With regard to the procedural question, my colleague Dr. Sponik and my answer, another explanation before continuing. I think it is in everyone's interest that the National Assembly in its full composition, in the presence of all Members and Members, whether they support or not the candidate for Prime Minister, participates in the debate. My proposal is to announce, as President, that after the end of this agenda item, item 2 of the agenda, i.e. the debate and the vote on the candidate for President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I will adjourn the meeting for tonight. This means that there will be plenty of time before tomorrow's meeting of the National Assembly to meet the working body of the mother and to continue the discussion on the third item. Of course, there is plenty and enough time for us to consult informally tonight on the harmonisation of different interests regarding the management and design of working bodies and, of course, for the meeting of the Elections and Administrative Affairs Commission. This seems to me to be a reasonable proposal, which allows the fact that we have not yet formed working bodies to be a possible reason not to make any further decisions. I take it we have answered the procedural question. Only procedural proposals have the right to Dr. Rupel, a procedural proposal? [[...]] [[Yeah.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u11	I think it's a misunderstanding, Mr. President. You said we'd break point after breaking point one. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u12	by 2nd point, by choice or not [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u13	By law. [[...]] Let's see what it says.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u14	Look. The 1st item of the agenda is the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a candidate for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. My proposal is, I say, my proposal is that after this point we stop the session until tomorrow and continue. If the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, does not accept such a proposal, we will continue to work. That's clear. This was my suggestion that perhaps those who are not, this could be seen as an opportunity for discussions on other items on the agenda not to be lacking in such an important political debate as this. Procedural colleague Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u15	In fact, I have a correction of your procedural proposal so that we do not unnecessarily vote and vote. In view of all that has taken place in the past days in the National Assembly in the coordination of both labour bodies and in the consideration of the Government Act, I propose, which has already been proposed at the meeting of the quorum, that the Quiaz meet after the adoption of the Government Act and that, after the 1st point, after the election of the Prime Minister, the meeting of the National Assembly will be suspended, but not today, the meeting will continue when the Committee on Internal Policy reports on the Government Law. Therefore, according to this point, the Internal Policy Committee should draw up a proposal for a government law and coordination will be carried out later, as you proposed. It's either today or tomorrow, but it's another question.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u16	So that we will all understand very well, your proposal, which I will put to the vote, is that after the end of the first item of the agenda, i.e. after the decision on the proposal of the President of the Republic, the session should be suspended in order to meet the working body of the mother, that is, the Internal Policy Committee, for the Government Act. Then we will continue this discussion when this one is done. Whether it will be tonight or tomorrow, we will decide according to the time we will need to make a decision. If it is very late tonight, it is probably not reasonable to continue making decisions today and continue tomorrow. Is that all right, colleague Anderlich?
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u17	I think it's more precise if the assembly continues today's meeting so long as it adopts the government law, and the next item is to do the following, and that is tomorrow, so to speak, the formation of working bodies.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u18	Okay. Then I will now put to the vote the proposal that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia decide today before the end on the proposal of the President of the Republic, to suspend the meeting so that the Internal Policy Committee can be convened at that time. At the end of the work of the Internal Policy Committee, the National Assembly will continue its work, probably today. Then, at this time, there will be sufficient opportunities for both informally and formally to decide on the design of working bodies. Kviaz will sit down and prepare a proposal for the 3rd item of the agenda. I put this proposal to the vote. 66 Members and Members are present. We are voting on this proposal. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] This means that we have laid down the rules governing tonight's meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to a decision where, before the procedural question of Comrade Dr. Podobnik, we have also concluded - this is about the proposal for an extension of the agenda. I ask Members and Members whether anyone has any suggestions. [[No, no, ……]] I'm guessing there's no such proposal. We're moving on to a decision on quick procedures. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt a law amending and supplementing the law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia by rapid procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members: Borut Pahor, Anton Anderlich, Anton Delak and Janez Podobnik. Does a representative of the proposers want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like to speak with the representative of the Secretariat for Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] I am putting to the vote a proposal for the adoption of that proposal by means of a rapid procedure. Members and Members of Parliament, please be advised that we are present. There are 64 Members and Members present. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposal for the adoption of a bill is adopted quickly. We are moving on to a full decision on the draft agenda. For today's session, I propose the agenda as you received by reference. I shall put to the vote the proposed agenda. Let's find out who's here! There are 64 Members and Members present. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the agenda has been adopted. We're moving on to one. Agenda item - Proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm asking for peace in the hall. I welcome the representative of the Office of the President of the State, Mr Šiftar, and all others who are present next to the Members and Members on this agenda item. Article 257 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provides that the President of the Republic of Slovenia shall propose to the National Assembly a candidate for Prime Minister no later than 30 days after the establishment of the National Assembly. On 14 November 2000, the President of the Republic informed me that after consultations with the leaders of the parliamentary groups and members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities as candidates for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovska proposed. I give the floor to the Prime Minister's candidate, Dr. Janez Drnovšk, to present the Government's programming designs, in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 258 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Dr. Janez Drnovšek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u19	Dear Members and honourable Members, Mr President! It is my pleasure and it is my honour to present myself today to the National Assembly as a candidate for Prime Minister. This is not the first time, this is the fourth time I have presented myself to the National Assembly as a candidate for Prime Minister. If the National Assembly approves this candidacy, it will be the fourth government I propose to this National Assembly. It is clear from these facts that this is not a completely new presentation, perhaps a completely new and unexpected programme, but that it is a continuation of our joint work over the last eight years to continue the construction of our country, in order to ensure the best possible development of Slovenia in this mandate ahead of us. We had an election a month ago. The results are well known. This presentation today, too, is the result of these elections. We have used this month intensively to draw up a programme, to draw up a coalition agreement, to similarly define objectives and tasks in the next four-year period. That's why I asked the leadership of the National Assembly to share this coalition program with you. The program is on 97 pages, with detailed guidelines, goals and tasks. This is an integral part of my presentation. If you allow me, I will try to give you my framework and vision of our development in the next period. We signed a coalition contract yesterday with representatives of four parties, the Liberal Democrats of Slovenia, the United List of Social Democrats, the SLS+SKD of the Slovenian People's Party and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. Prior to that, as President of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia signed an agreement on cooperation with the Young Slovenia Party. This agreement lays down the framework for our cooperation in the National Assembly in the coming period, but this agreement is not an integral part of the coalition agreement in the sense that it would also be a government party, but we will cooperate with it in those points and objectives which, above all, tend to tangerate the interests of young people and which we have defined in this agreement. We're nearing the end of 2000. The year 2000 was slightly different from the year before. Not only because we had elections, but also because there have been major political changes this year, the change of government, after a long period of political stability. In the last five months, we have had a government, another government, represented by representatives of some parties, who will obviously be in opposition from now on. I am sorry that the representatives of the two opposition parties are not present in this Chamber today when my programme is presented. Among other things, I wanted to express my respect for their work in these months. This government has also had a difficult task, we have not been satisfied with all its achievements, at some points we have been critical and yet we have, but at some points it has achieved results. Above all, we must respect and take into account the fact that it had only a few months at its disposal, a few months before the elections, which is a specific time and, of course, was an objective framework and a limitation on the scope of the Government's activities during the transitional period. For the next term, we are preparing and proposing a fairly broad coalition, a firm agreement between the four parties on government cooperation. I assess that this should ensure the political stability of Slovenia in the coming period and that the necessary framework for the government, as well as the National Assembly, to carry out its activities in the most effective way and that we will achieve the objectives that we have presented to our citizens before the elections and which we have also recorded in this coalition programme. If you don't mind, I'll start by presenting some views on the economic agenda. In the past period, Slovenia has mainly experienced periods of relatively high economic growth, with balanced balance sheets in various areas. This year, such economic growth continues. We expect relatively high economic growth, at least five per cent of the social product, to grow in the same way as we did in the previous year. Our goal is to maintain such economic growth in the next period. In the last period, they have been shown in two balance sheets - both in the balance of payments and in the public financial balance; in the budget, in the deficit, in the public financial deficit. Despite these two problems or these two deficits, which have occurred mainly in the last year, the overall economic picture of Slovenia remains solid and favourable. However, it follows from these findings that one of the key findings ahead of the work of the new government is that we must pay particular attention to these issues, especially to public finances, and ensure that current trends, if any, would lead to greater deficits in the future and greater public debt in order to change these trends. The current state of public finances in Slovenia is therefore still sound, satisfactory, public debt is low, substantially below the average or better than the average of the European Union. So our goal is not to improve these basic items because they are favourable, but to change trends. In order to change trends in public finances, we will have to review a number of laws adopted by the National Assembly in the past period and ensure a more coordinated growth in public-financial revenues and expenditure. We will try to continue with our policy, which has been completely balanced for many years when we did not have a budget deficit, and which in recent years, like the limit over which we are not supposed to go, has set 1% of the social product, but the limit will obviously be exceeded in 2000. We are approaching the end of 2000, and it is clear in our coalition agreement that we will have to approach the budgetary situation very quickly and decisively for the year 2000 and prepare very quickly in the accelerated 2001 budget procedures. This could be called a crisis resolution of the budgetary situation, and this would certainly be the first priority, both in time and in substance, to be addressed by the new government. We'll have to face reality. Of course, the reality is that we want to implement as many programmes as possible in all areas, that we want to do as much and we have done a lot already, but we cannot do everything at once. Therefore, a programme of different interests, objectives, the desire to review and frame it into the available options that we have. A whole set of different laws, which will have to be implemented, adopted or not adopted in this regard, is also included. The coalition is prepared and agreed to start with this serious work, i.e. by harmonising public finances and providing sound financial foundations for the future. At the same time, I do not announce major shock therapies or large savings programs. However, I announce a very thorough and very serious revision of all public financial obligations. I am announcing a moderate wage and pension policy, not a freeze, but a moderate growth within productivity, within available resources. I announce the need to continue social bargaining with trade unions, with employers, to continue our social partnership, which we have successfully established in recent years. I am confident that our social partners will also understand the need, understand the reality and agree on what the movements of key social categories can be in the coming period, in order to maintain a relatively high level of social solidarity in our country, while not compromising the competitiveness of the economy, on the contrary, we need to increase competitiveness. The challenges ahead are very serious. Global competition is increasingly acute, and the world is being joined in a global economic competition. Europe is intertwined, giants are intertwined in order to be even stronger, even more competitive. It is understandable that we will also have to do our utmost in Slovenia to abstain in this strong global economic match, not to fail, but to continue to ensure the solid development of our country, to meet the needs in various areas, so that we can achieve the many plans that we have, to achieve many improvements, both in the basic standard of living and in various activities, from the cultural, scientific, transport and all others that we have thoroughly defined in our coalition programme with the objectives and measures to achieve them. In doing so, I would stress our orientation, our goal, to try to provide as many homes as possible in the coming period, especially for young families. For this we have a special programme, a national housing savings scheme. We also want to ensure as many jobs as possible, especially for young people, and we also have a programme to do so. Our principle in this regard will also be as flexible as possible in working relationships. In creating jobs we want to follow the most modern trends in the world, introduce various flexible forms of work, including working with home, part time. One of the key words that we have presented before the last elections, which we are not going to forget, is flexibility. Slovenia must be flexible, it must respond quickly to challenges, it must respond quickly to changes, the world is changing very quickly today. One of the key tasks related to this flexibility is therefore to clear up all bureaucratic, administrative procedures. We called it an anti-biocratic program. What do we want to do about it? The fact that the country will, in a broader sense, be as responsive as possible to the interests and needs of the people as possible; that all civil servants in public administration will be aware that they serve citizens, that they provide certain services that must be as rational as possible, that their relationship must be as human as possible, as direct as possible. This task, which perhaps, which is mostly federal, we want to give a great, great priority. On the one hand, we want to simplify the various procedures; on the other hand, we want to bring the State Administration closer to the citizens and to the greatest extent possible to involve NGOs, individuals, different institutions in working together to solve our problems, to achieve our goals and tasks. We have very much underlined this orientation, and we are therefore also trying to adapt our new government, its organisation, to this goal. In economic work, flexibility means making it easier for new companies to access our market, making it as easy as possible to set up businesses, as much competition as possible, to put pressure on more efficient management. Simplification of procedures is very important in this regard. The experience we have is that foreign investors, investors who could bring more jobs, more knowledge, new markets, largely assess the country's administrative capacity to accept them, the simplicity of procedures, the possibility of effectively resolving problems in a relatively short time. This task and the resolution of this task are to be linked to new technologies, information technologies. That is why we give a project called E Slovenia, electronic Slovenia, a very strong emphasis in our programme. We have also highlighted the right place in the government's organisation, the right organisation. Slovenia, as a relatively small country of citizens who are relatively highly educated, who are able to act creatively in some encouraging environment, should respond much more to the challenges of modern information society, responding, rather than perhaps to many other countries. That is why we want to bring Slovenia to the very top of the world's information technology-led countries in the coming period. That is why we want to educate, but not only the young, but also the older generations, so that they can participate equally in the new information society. Dear Members and Members! Slovenia also faces many challenges in the foreign policy area over the next period. The world we live in is still complex, unstable and dangerous. Slovenia sees its future, its perspective in a united Europe, in the European Union. We have adopted this basic orientation together a long time ago, we have been working together for many years, and we are faced with the possibility of becoming members of the European Union. However, this task is not simple. On the one hand, this is, of course, a complex process of reforms that we are implementing, not only for the European Union, but especially for ourselves. These are reforms that we need to complete in this mandate. I would point out, in addition to the reform of the public administration, which I have already discussed - the withdrawal of the country from many economic sectors, the necessity of privatisation, the increasing competition in these sectors - this will be one of the key tasks in the functioning of this government in the coming period. We need to make key, serious moves in this area in the first year. We invest privatisations in key areas where the state sector is still strong: both energy, telecommunications, banking, iron and other. In these sectors, competition pressure, the pressing pressure of capital, knowledge, new resources, new resources are needed. This, however, can give us a serious shift in economic activities - i.e. even higher economic growth and membership in the European Union. The compatibility of our economy with the European economy remains a key task for the government in the coming period. I think that there is a broad consensus among our citizens that this task is to be achieved. We are aware that everything will not depend solely on us. The European Union is looking for its shape, its organisation for the future. We are closely monitoring this process. We see that some Member States of the European Union are somewhat afraid of the enlargements and arrivals of new members. It is therefore possible that they may also try to slow down the process of integration of the new countries. I do not think there is a real possibility that this process will stop, but there is a real possibility that this process will slow down in different forms. The only way to respond is really quickly to make all those moves that we can make ourselves in this country in 2001, in 2002, and to become a completely clear and convincing candidate for membership in the European Union as soon as these two years have passed. The rest will, of course, depend on the members of the European Union, on the other hand, but our task must be done within the next two years. This is the fundamental commitment of our government, and I am sure, future governments, those that I will propose, and I am sure, also the National Assembly and all Slovenian citizens. Our direction also remains as close as possible to working with NATO as possible. We're partners of the relationship, then, we're partners for peace. We want stability, we want peace, we want partnership with this union of democratic countries, developed countries. That's why we want to become members of NATO. We have already set our own guidelines in this area in the next period. During this period, we want to continue them. We are surrounded by neighbors with whom we have some open questions. Let me mention relations with Croatia, which are expected in our coalition contract, in our programming directions have found an important place. I think it is time that, after many years of negotiations, we only find a solution to those issues that are still open. These are serious questions, complicated political, legal questions. Let me just mention the border issue and some of the property issues related to the success of the former country. We are convinced that now is the time when there will be sufficient readiness on our side and a stable government to resolve these issues. I hope that this will coincide with this willingness and the ability of the government on the Croatian side as well, and that we will finally be able to resolve these open issues, these problems, which in some ways bind our country with the previous period, to the issues of success, which, of course, are also open to some other countries from the former Yugoslavia. For the rest of the questions, I also assess that the period is coming and the real possibilities are for us to resolve them. Lately, we have encountered problems in our relations with other neighbours, Austria. I really hope that we will be able to maintain friendly and good neighbourly relations with this country. We expect that a high level of democracy in a neighbouring country will create the conditions for resolving open issues, that there will be no attempts at blackmail, that there will be no attempts to exploit a neighbouring country that is already a member of the European Union, in order to try to address some issues in our relations in an unequal way. We'll resist that, we won't agree to that. We will try and resolve these issues with appropriate diplomacy. The coalition has agreed on this for weeks and has set up a programme in this area as well. Dear Members and Members! There is a very difficult period ahead of the national assembly and before the government. I hope that we have laid the foundations for close cooperation enough to set such a framework for our coalition work, that there will be no blockades, to various shocks, to the backdrops in our work. That is why we have worked so much more intensively in these weeks after the elections to identify and resolve possible problems in advance, to circumvent or resolve possible blockades, in order to ensure that the government can start working immediately and effectively to resolve all these issues ahead of us. If you elect me as Prime Minister, I will put into this project all my experience, all my knowledge and awareness that this is a really important period; that the responsibility that lies before me and before you is very great, that there is no room and that there will be no room for any different individual interests, to dominate the group interests, that the parties will have to work in the same direction for the benefit of the citizens. There are more coalitions, more contracts, different relationships, more experience. I am convinced that this should be a sufficient basis for us to act maturely, to successfully resolve all open issues, to meet the challenges ahead of us, and to justify the trust that voters, Slovenian citizens, have given us in the last elections. With that thought and with such a commitment, I conclude my presentation. I repeat that the main programme is included in the document you received. I repeat that we have done a hard job in recent weeks, and I think we are ready for the future. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr Janez Drnovšek, candidate for the president of the new Slovenian government, for your opening act. As far as possible during your performance, I have consulted - I say as far as possible - on the proposal of the next procedural decision, given our previous one. I think that this is such an important political debate that it would be worthwhile to try again whether an agreement can be reached that allows all the arguments in the National Assembly to be heard in such an important debate. I propose - I ask Members and Members to support my proposal, which I will put to the vote - that we suspend the meeting within half an hour before giving the floor to the Members of the groups so that the leaders of the parliamentary groups of all the parties represented in Parliament will be gathered in my office immediately. I put this proposal to the vote. Let's find out who's here! There are 64 Members and Members present. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 46.]] That's how we proceed with the session. I invite representatives of the groups to explain their views on the opening act of candidate for the new Slovenian government, Dr Janez Drnovska. Mr Anton Delak will speak on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please. Following him is the leader of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, Miran Potrč.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u21	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Honorable National Assembly, distinguished candidate for Prime Minister, Dr. Janez Drnovšek. After the elections, when the Liberal Democracy received such a large number of Members, it was largely clear who would be the mandate holder. However, following the consultation of the President of the country with the heads of the parliamentary groups, the mandate was, of course, granted. I am pleased that our party or parliamentary group has also been invited to the coalition. Although we have had some critical comments in the previous mandate, it is largely clear that experience has been very good. The result of the previous mandate is also very good results in Slovenia. The current coalition will do even better than it has done so far. I am sure that with good or hard work and great effort we will achieve results that will be proud of our country of Slovenia. Mr President of the Prime Minister, propose to us good candidates for ministers and the result will be here. I wish you great happiness and success. You have our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u22	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Miran Potrč, the leader of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, followed by Dr Janez Podobnik, the leader of the Group of Members of the United Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr Borut Pahor, President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Drnovšek, candidate for Prime Minister, distinguished colleague and colleague! Members and Members of the United List of Social Democrats support the election of Dr. Janez Drnovsk as Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. In the coming mandate, Slovenia needs a programme coordinated government coalition that will be able, on the basis of an agreed government-level and responsible government programme, to achieve an important part of the direction, tasks and actions that await our country due to its development needs and tasks. As a member of the government coalition, we expect and will also act to achieve greater tolerance and integration in Slovenia, while respecting the diversity of knowledge for the future, to give priority to economic and cultural development as a key factor in the economy, to give space to entrepreneurship and new technologies, so that the country with its institutions is friendly to people, to ensure social security and the necessary social balance, and thus to create stable conditions without which there is no real motivation for all people, not only to think about Slovenia's regional future, but also to engage in this project, and to make a reasoned and dignified entry into European connections. In the United List of Social Democrats, we do not make it an illusion that it will be easy to rule. On the contrary. Nothing idealises our developmental economic, social and other conditions. We know that we are all facing strong negotiations for an equal position in European integration and decisions that will require the broadest national consensus. It will be necessary to continue and complete many reforms that have been initiated. Consolidation of public finances will be necessary, and there will also be unpopular measures, so in the United List of Social Democrats we expect the mandate holder, together with the elected ministers, to put in place a way to resolve issues and problems as a joint task, the activity and responsibility of the government as a whole, so that we will be both positive and negative in the functioning of this government by all ministers, with the Prime Minister at the forefront. In the United List of Social Democrats, we have made a conscious decision to participate in the coalition, with consideration, aware of our responsibilities to the electorate, who have dedicated a third of more votes to us than in the previous elections, but in particular, we have made it clear that they do not want a government that had power right before the state elections. We are firmly committed to taking concrete responsibility for the future of this country together with other partners in the government. It was therefore right that we have focused a lot of attention, will and knowledge of the problems on the formation of a coalition agreement on government cooperation. We estimate that much progress has been made in its design compared to previous documents of this kind. It also contains binding obligations and specific commitments in specific areas of our internal and external tasks regarding the main objectives of government cooperation. In the United List of Social Democrats and in its Group of Members, we are determined to respect the agreement and, above all, to implement it. We want the situation in the government and its management to be such that they will allow all coalition parties to act in a consistent, joint assessment, counter-criticism of wrong or questionable moves and counter-reactions, and the arrangements necessary for the successful functioning of the government as a whole. We want to contribute to the successful work of the government as well as the national assembly. It would not be right if, because of the gravity of the problems, the scope of the government's tasks or because of the poorly organised work, the National Assembly was constantly under pressure from rapid procedures and extraordinary meetings. It would be wrong not to take the opinion of the profession, the social partners, civil society and the opposition into account when deciding. We have clear objectives set out in our party's programme, which are in many ways also the content of the coalition treaty. We believe that they can be realized. We therefore consciously and responsibly support the proposal to elect Dr. Janez Drnovšek as Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Miran Potch. I give the floor to Dr. Janez Podobnik, Head of the SLS+SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party, followed by Mr. Zmago Jelinčič, Head of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u25	Dear fellow Members and colleagues, Mr President, the distinguished candidate for the term of office of Dr Janez Drnovšek. The SLS+SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party will support the candidate for Prime Minister Dr Janez Drnovska. Dr. Drnovšek is president of the LDS – Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, which received very strong voter support during the elections. By signing the coalition agreement on cooperation in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party also decided to join the government coalition. Slovenia is ahead of a number of challenging tasks and in particular decisions; mentioning at least some: entry into the European Union and NATO liaison, while maintaining as much of our national identity as possible, integration into the information society, halting negative demographic trends, maintaining the settlement of Slovenian rural areas, strengthening contacts with Slovenia in place and around the world. A number of other objectives are set out in the government's programme design or in a coalition agreement presented by candidate for Prime Minister Drnovšek. In our Group of Members, we believe that it is necessary to reach the broadest possible internal political consensus in these objectives. Whether it will be achieved will depend largely on the new Prime Minister. Also from the way the new government coalition works. In our parliamentary group and in our party, we stress the importance of partnering with government parties. There is opposition in each Parliament and there is a position; both are honorable and responsible. We are convinced that there is a will and willingness in Slovenia to negotiate and find the best solutions for the country of Slovenia. We believe that I have a candidate for Prime Minister Dr. Janez Drnovšek's will and willingness to have a broad national consensus in Slovenia. That is why our Group of Members will support it. The content of the coalition agreement that we have received today is, in fact, a key political programme document that will determine such an economic, social, cultural and, finally, the human bivanian pulse of the Slovenian nation over the coming years. And the first objective of this agreement reads: "Tolerance and more integration in Slovenia, respect for freedom of choice, enforcement of new ideas and not enforcement of old ideologies, a future without trauma of the past." So let me conclude this performance with a quote written a few years ago by European intellectual Martini: "We live in a pluralistic and complex reality. In this, it is not always possible for all that we have for moral, good, direct law, because we need the consent of many. We have to predict some sequence. In particular, at a time like ours, in which a number of people have lost their ethical visibility, it is not always possible, or it is wise, to propose for the adoption of an even more important value if such legislation seriously endangers coexistence. The more ethically important a value is, the more it demands and needs to mature at the general bibian level. I believe that we must separate the need to promote a new common mentality and common sense, which, with good reasons and valid examples, wants to convince people of the importance of some value for the community, from the place of its adoption. Without a satisfactory consent, this cannot be carried out." Let the election of Dr. Janez Drnovsk as Prime Minister begin with the formation of such a consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Dr. Janez Podobnik. I give the floor to Mr Zmaj Jelinčič, Head of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group; Mr Marko Diaci, Head of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party, will receive the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today we will vote on a mandate-holder who has actually drawn up a coalition treaty that is almost larger than the entire governance programme. I understand it in a very specific way, such a coalition contract. I see it as pressure on everyone else and also on those in the coalition not to allow more escapades, thinking on their own and perhaps other decisions; in other words, it is the discipline of ruling or government partners, which I do not know if it will lead to the positive development of the Republic of Slovenia. In fact, the coalition agreement itself is very much against social issues and is largely directed at a small man. After all, the absolute advantage is given to entering the European Union and, in general, to the European Union before it rises its own, that is to say Slovenian, economic growth. They are all supposed to be for the European Union and yet; where is the sober mind? Where is the sober mindset that all European parties already in the European Union have, where there is also a specific segment of the opposition that points to the trap of the European Union before or in the countries already in this Union? We're not in yet, we won't be in for a long time if we ever will, and yet we're bowing to all the ends and places. One more thing. They don't want us in Europe. When we confirmed the Commissioner's mandate years ago, then and today again - I think he will certainly be a mandate-holder, there is no doubt about it - it was said that we would join the European Union in 1999. That was the first date. Soon this date was raised in 2000 and then in 2002, today all sobriety and reality are talking about 2005 and 2008, but I think that after the meeting in Nice, these things will move into another more remote sphere. And yet we will kneel before Europe again and close free-of-carry shops as soon as possible. Those unemployed and those who have lived from this will be hanged on the state budget, but at the same time we are talking about not knowing what kind of growth and what else. I think that this will only be a burden for the country on the account of any possible entry into a European association, which is actually very far away if it is anywhere in the future. Given certain concerns and certain trends in the European Union, it is likely that they will not enter themselves. At that time, however, what Europe is actually doing with the present - I think the European Union is working with the current Eastern Europe, the former Eastern Europe. There is a new form of neocolonialism that cannot be carried out with weapons anymore, so it is carried out through economic intervention, with pressures, such and different as we witness every day. Some countries are kneeling, some countries are defending themselves: we have signed a Spanish agreement, the Poles have chosen at least a decade's delay in this area. They're also talking about relationships with neighbors. It is strictly stated in the Coalition Treaty that all parties who will be in the government must support a small-border agreement with the Republic of Croatia, which is undoubtedly at the expense of the Slovenian State. It is only Article 1 and the preceding Article of this Agreement, to which a constitutional decision is to be made whether or not the agreement is unconstitutional. No one sees what map is attached to this small-border agreement and from where to where is the small-border band for Croats. It goes right to the Italian border. And this goes on the sealine, on the coast and into the depth of Slovenian territory, so that both of them are covered by small or both border crossings between Slovenia and Croatia. What does that mean? Anyone with a small border card on land, or by sea, will quietly cross Slovenian territory, he will not have to contact Slovenian small-border or border authorities, the police, anyone, directly to Italy. According to local words, the loss of sovereignty, both at sea and at the work of the land. Nobody's talking about it. The Slovenian People's Party was against it a while ago, it is now - it seems so that in the government - it will be ready to kneel and forget its promises to voters once. But that's her thing. There is no regulated property law relations with neighbouring Croatia. I think that this would be much more important and important to regulate than to draw a borderline, for the benefit of Croatia and for the harm of Slovenia. The damage was done in 1990 and 1991, but we wouldn't talk about it. We had a chance to make things right, and we didn't. Or maybe they're not. Those of us who have been alerted to something have been silenced in one way or another. The only thing that might really make sense in the first place to do with neighbouring Croatia should raise the issue of reparations due to war damage in World War II. After all, Croatia was like the Independent State of Croatia, co-signature of the Axis Pact, with Hitler and with Mussolini, Slovenia was on the other hand. On the side of the allies. And if we have not triggered this in the former Yugoslavia because of some kind of talk about fraternity and unity, it might make sense to open this issue now. For if we open questions to the former Yugoslavia, we can also send them to the former enemy in World War II, Croatia. Things weren't settled, and if there was anything meaningful, it would make sense. After all, we have the case of Austria here. The prime minister said they would try to settle things with Austria; he would be more himself to do everything he could to set them up, but we cannot arrange them in such a way as to bow down, kneel down, kneel down and land on everything possible, but at the same time certain people who should protest will be silenced if we leave it, perhaps it will be good for us to be quiet. Turns out it wasn't good for us, but we didn't learn anything from it. As a matter of fact, when I listened to Mr Drnovsk, I was brainwashed by that: actually, for the third time, I have listened to the same thing. We have supported Mr Drnovšk twice, and without our support his government would not have been his, but we will not give him support for the third time; we do not believe him anymore, the promises he made were huge, but none was fulfilled. However, the Slovenian National Party is not like some political parties in this House who do not hope to face a stronger opponent and escape to illegality and are not here. We stand in our positions, stand in the position of constructive opposition and say out loud how we will vote: we will vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u28	Thank you very much to Mr Zmaj Jelinčič, Head of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. I give the floor to Mr Mark Diacija, who is the leader of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia; he will be given the floor of Mr Igor Bavčar on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u29	Mr. President, Mr. President-respected candidate for President, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, Honorable National Assembly! The young Slovenia Party unanimously supports Dr. Janez Drnovska as Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. We believe that the cooperation agreement will be properly implemented, and we are also pleased that the problem of young people is one of the main objectives of this mandate period in favour of the future of Slovenia. For the benefit of all generations in the Republic of Slovenia, we therefore call on you to exercise the wise and fair and just trust we show you today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr Marko Diaci, Head of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party. Mr Igor Bavčar has the floor, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. I'm asking for peace in the hall. You have the floor, Mr. Bavcar.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u31	Mr President, Mr Janez Drnovšek, candidate for Prime Minister, colleague and colleague, Members and Members of Parliament! The Group of Liberal Democracy proposed Dr Janez Drnovska as the candidate for Prime Minister and, of course, will also support him. Mr President of Liberal Democracy, Dr Janez Drnovšek, took this party to a winning match in this year's elections. The party's ten-step programme has received the largest support between the electorate and the electorate in Slovenia. In fact, the coalition agreement that you have before you and the opening presentation of the candidate for a term of office is a summary of our electoral programme, a leading programme based on the fact that Slovenia is at the point of ending the transition period, asking new questions, not facing and competing with only candidates for membership in the European Union, but that, according to its economic achievements, it can already be compared with developed European countries and practically fishing, I will say, a group of Member States of the European Union in many areas: economically certainly, in terms of social sensitivity, development, development and quality of the environment and so on. I think that the time ahead of the new Slovenian government, led by Dr. Janez Drnovšek, is the time when new questions, new tasks, new ambitions that are involved in this coalition treaty must be asked again. From here on, its scope, its accuracy, from here on out - I will say - a eloquent attitude about the key tasks ahead of this country. This coalition image differs mainly from others in its accuracy in the fact that it is based on the experience that the candidate for Prime Minister has in leading such an important work as the top of the executive branch. And the very situation in our country testifies that this knowledge is not small. The ten steps that liberal democracy has taken in this year's elections are ten steps that include concepts that we did not talk about in this country at the time of transition: new economy, knowledge, new technologies, open state, inclusive society, facing those issues that we sometimes thought were reserved for more developed countries. Today, Slovenia is at the point of dealing with these issues during the period ahead and which has been described very well in the opening presentation. From here on, issues relating to the development of education, the development of health care, the development of new regional cooperation, a series of tasks in the field of external policy from the integration into the European Union and the reforms to be made in this regard; not because of the European Union, but because of our own ability to become more and more developed in the developing world. I am convinced that on this basis and on the basis of one key emphasis in our programme on tolerance, on the balance of policy, on the centrality of the policy of liberal democracy, which is capable of connecting different political parties, and in this way the Slovenians and Slovenes in particular ensure a peaceful life and dealing with real issues, the choice for Dr. Janez Drnovšk, the right choice for Slovenia. With his candidacy and his government, Slovenia is moving forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u32	Thank you very much to Mr Igor Bavčar, who spoke on behalf of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Mrs. Maria Pozsonec, would you like to speak on behalf of the Hungarian Nationality Group? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable National Assembly, Honourable Mr. Ambassador Dr. Janez Drnovšek. The expectations of the Pomurci towards the new government are high and rightly high. In all the constituencies, liberal democracy candidates won. The women with the route on their heads went to the elections and said they were going to vote Drnovska, Drnovska himself. This trust has been shown to us, we have shown you despite great poverty, the unemployed and despite widespread agriculture, the unbuilt infrastructure and the demographic threat. There are companies that are either failing or barely living, and there's oil and there's nothing young people have to look for, they leave our places every day. This electoral success was also contributed by members of the Hungarian nationality, where all these problems are still on the rise. I wish you the opportunity and the power to fulfill their legitimate expectations, because in their name I will support you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mrs. Maria Pozsonec. I see that we have exhausted the presentations of the parliamentary groups. Therefore, I ask whether anyone else will, before I give the floor to those who have volunteered for the performance in their own name - Mr Bogdan Barovic is the first to be announced and Mr Saša Peca behind him - will make a statement for the debate, because this debate will be without a time limit if this application is not made, I will limit the discussions below for five minutes. Okay? Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor first, followed by Mr Sašo Peče. These are two debates without a time limit, if anyone else applies, they will have five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u35	Mr President, the distinguished candidate for Prime Minister, the honourable Member of Parliament, Members of Parliament. It is my duty to the electorate, to my colleagues in this Chamber, to explain my decision, why and what it will be. We, myself, have weighed the program of the government coalition many times, have agreed with it many times, have experienced that this, so the coalition, did not want to or did not want to agree with what we or I presented, but perhaps it was not bad. We do not force or enforce our program, we want to cooperate constructively. I have experienced too many times, including on the microlevels, disregarding our proposals, our ideas, which are not my own personal ideas, which are also the ideas and suggestions of people with whom we all live together in the Republic of Slovenia. The coalition has repeatedly pushed away our offered hand, and our program is in many ways different and different from the programme it has and will have this coalition. Personally, I am also disturbed by individuals who hang out with membership in one of the coalition parties that you are today, and somewhere in a smaller space in Slovenia somewhere, without your knowledge, are taking advantage of this account, and perhaps at the expense of the hard work of some individuals, the few that you are now here. We, too, have our own electoral base, which we have promised her much from our program. We must fight for our promises, remain principled, in constructive opposition. We respect the will of the people, but our principled pride and our principle obligation to the electorate are such that I, as a member of the Slovenian National Party, say: Mr candidate, will not support you today. However, I promise to offer my hand to this coalition and to participate with great joy in such programmes at that time and where it will be for the benefit of all Slovenians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Bogdan Barovich. I give my word to Mr. Pechet. I'm asking if anyone else would like to sign up for the debate. It burns, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u37	Thank you. Respectable present. We expected more, we expected that at least the basic condition of progress would be met. We were expecting communication. In those days after the elections, after the time when we were full of words about better, better Slovenia, communication was interrupted. Everyone took care of their calculations, of course, the most powerful of these calculations. They beat the price of one, they beat the price of another, just so that they could rule more strongly. They did it. You won the election. In my opinion, you have won too much and this is harmful for this country. As my colleague Barovic has already announced, I will not support you either. Because we still do not know the basic measures you intend to take in this country with which you intend to take this country forward. How do you plan to cut the budget? How do you plan to fill all those gaps that have recently become rich: in yours and in that other government? No, we don't know anything. Today you armed us a few minutes before this session with your coalition contract. You expected us to absorb it in three minutes, let's say. No, that's not possible! If we want progress in this country all together, for which we are prepared in the Slovenian National Party, you will have to take us or you will have to take us differently. Perhaps one response to your will, your likeness - your complacency, is that the 1/3 of today's hall is empty. Think about it! It will be necessary if we all want to move forward together if we all want to do something better for this country, so that sometimes you will be willing to listen to the opinions of others; that you will be willing to accept the thinking differently and to endure the best that is possible from all of this. I've never had enough of one myself. And good luck, even though you're strong, you're gonna need it.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Sasha Pece. I'm asking, does anyone else want a word? Please, Mr. Franz Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u39	Thank you for your word, chairman. Let me speak for myself, too. The last national elections have shown that every third Slovenian citizen has rewarded liberal democracy with his decisive vote. Liberal democracy has won the most votes. In view of the coalition agreement, given that the most powerful party also belongs to the mandate-holder, and given that liberal democracy proposes Dr. Janez Drnovšk as mandate-holder, there is no other option but to personally support Dr. Janez Drnovšk. But I would like to appeal to him, despite the agreement that was signed. In 1997, when you were, Drnovšek, Prime Minister, we set up two additional ministries: the Ministry of European Affairs and the Ministry of Small Economy and Tourism, based in Maribor. You agreed with these two ministries, and the government coalition established them at the time. Today, with a proposal for a government law, the Ministry of Small Economy and Tourism in Maribor is to end or merge. Years ago, one of the ruling parties - the future - had a convention in Maribor. In her congressional declaration, she wrote down the city of Maribor to blossom. I appeal to you that this flower we have in Maribor, the only flower in Maribor, we have time to stay in the city of Maribor. It will be very sad if we tear the flower we have in Maribor and bring it back to Ljubljana, where it will slowly drain. Maribor and some places, Drava Valley and other Slovenian places are plagued by a major social and economic crisis. This coalition awaits hard and hard work. Above all, we will have to advocate for equitable regional development. Statistical data show a slightly different trend. Ljubljana with its surroundings has 4% unemployment and some other places, including - as the colleague said - with Prekmurje, Koroško, are at the very top of unemployment and at the very top of social problems. Recently, I have met many mothers who have their sons and daughters to study in Ljubljana. A lot of students go back, they don't go back to the countryside. Because in the environment where he went to college, he does not find his vision, his future, so that he can get, according to the appropriate education for which he has been trained, a job. It's much easier to find a job in Ljubljana. Even this is what happens to us in Styria, that parents send their children to study in Grac. Do you know why? To Grac so that their children can return to their birthplaces. I don't know. As a member of the Slovenian People's Party of SLS+SKD, I will endeavour in this government coalition to do everything we can to reduce this diversity between some and some other places slowly, reduce and actually start to develop evenly regionally. To conclude: of course, I also appeal, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, to you, or really to all these coalition parties of Styria, Prekmurje, Koroška does not survive any political official who would be able to take over any government resort? Let me repeat for the end: according to the election result, according to the programme, under the coalition contract, I will support Dr. Janez Drnovsk's candidacy as Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Franz Kangler. I'm asking, does anyone else want a word? I guess not. I ask the candidate for Prime Minister Dr. Janez Drnovsk whether he wishes to respond in any way to the debate. You have the floor, Dr. Janez Drnovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u41	Dear Members, Members, Mr President. It would only be a brief thank-you to those parliamentary groups that have announced their support. Of course, I am aware that this is also the result of our joint work in the preparation of a coalition treaty, common objectives, tasks, guidance, our common commitment. I would like to respond to Mr Kangler's proposal or comment. Regional development, balanced regional development is one of our fundamental priorities. I may not have highlighted it in particular in my context, but it is in this programme, it is in our coalition contract; we have been doing a lot of work and we will deal with it. Even if we join together, we will join some ministry, of course that does not mean that we need to physically merge or move, for example, from Maribor to Ljubljana that activity that already exists there. The essence of this is, of course, uniform coordination and the organisation of the ministry. We want to increase the efficiency of the government. We are aware of the difficult challenges ahead of us, and I think we will be part of them together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Dr. Janez Drnovšek. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 111 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the election of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall be secret balloted. In accordance with Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure, the President shall vote in secret with the assistance of the Secretary-General of the State Assembly and the four Members elected by the State Assembly on a proposal from the President. Representatives of the parliamentary groups have already submitted proposals for members of the electoral commission: for LDS Rudolf Moge, for the Joint List of Social Democrats Aurelio Juri, for SLS+SKD, the Slovenian People's Party Franci Rokavec and for the Slovenian National Party Sonja Areh-Lavric. Does anyone object to this proposal? [[No, no, ……]] I then put this proposal to the vote and thus the composition of the electoral commission. Let's find out who's here! There are 63 Members and Members present. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] In view of the outcome of the vote, I note that the Commission has been elected in the proposed composition. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 97 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, votes will be delivered to the Members by each of them to the table of the President and by giving his name and surname. The Member who assists the President in the exercise of the vote shall deliver a vote to each Member, and the Secretary-General of the State Assembly shall indicate on behalf and surname of the Member in the list that the vote has been enchanted. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "no" on the ballot. Under the second paragraph of Article 111 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the candidate for Prime Minister will be elected if voted for by the majority of Members and Members, that is 46 or more. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 98 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, an unfulfilled ballot or a ballot which has not been completed in accordance with the instructions referred to above shall be invalid. We will vote in this Chamber. I ask Members and Members to fill out the voice box and to place it in the voting box, which will be at the table in front of the Presidency. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask Members who will assist me in the vote to report immediately after the interruption in room 117, where we will take over the voting material. The vote will begin in 15 minutes at 6.20. But it's gonna take until 6:40. After the vote, I ask Members who will assist me in the vote to meet in room 117. We'll continue the meeting at 7 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, we are continuing our meeting. We're picking up the presence! [[61 Members and Members.]] I find that the assembly is adjourned and I publish the outcome of the vote. Minutes on the outcome of the vote on the election of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. The vote under Article 111(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia took place on Thursday, 16 November 2000, at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. 67 ballots were distributed, 67 ballots were delivered, 1 ballot was invalid, 66 votes were valid. 61 members voted in favour and 5 in favour. [[Let's hear it.]] Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the outcome, I find that Dr Janez Drnovšek has been elected Prime Minister. In accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, I ask Dr. Janez Drnovška to swear before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u44	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order to follow my conscience, to work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u45	On behalf of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, I sincerely congratulate you. [[Let's hear it.]] Prime Minister, Dr. Janez Drnovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u46	Members and Members of Parliament, Mr President, I thank you for your confidence, for your support, for today's election. I am fully aware that this is a great responsibility, it is a great honour, but it is primarily a responsibility. I am fully aware, probably better than anyone in this country, of how difficult the work you've given me, how important it is to do it well. I will endeavour to work as successfully as possible, that the government will be as successful as possible and that we will realise the expectations of our citizens. I will act truly on my conscience, based on the experience and knowledge I have gained. This is not only my knowledge, my experience, it is something we have acquired together during this period of young Slovenian country, and let us try to make the best use of it, invest in the future; to ensure that Slovenia has the best perspective, the future, the most decent life for all our citizens. Thank you very much. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-16-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Once again, congratulations to the Prime Minister. If I may, on behalf of the National Assembly, express my hope that the Prime Minister will cooperate well with this high house. Since Dr. Janez Drnovšek has been elected Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, he is no longer able to perform the parliamentary function - I ask for peace in the Chamber - so I will immediately inform the Republican Election Commission and ask it to inform the assembly which candidate will replace Dr. Janez Drnovšk in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, so that he can draw up a report and propose an approval of the mandate at the next meeting of the Assembly. I would like to ask for more attention before I conclude this agenda item and, in accordance with the decision of the National Assembly, also suspend this meeting until further notice. I would ask that the leaders of the parliamentary groups, of all the parliamentary groups, gather in my office for a few minutes after the end. Thank you very much. I'm adjourning until further notice. She will be led by the Vice-President next, because I am one of the proposers of the bill, which will be on the agenda. Thank you very much.
