ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We begin the third extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting with the following Members: Janko Weber, Cyril Pucko for the morning part of the session, Franz Kangler. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u2	Please stop registering your presence for a moment. We have received a copy of yesterday's vote and we note that some of us who have been properly reported and even voted are not on the list and there is doubt that the technique is not working.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u3	I think that, according to the rules of procedure, a vote error should be notified immediately after the vote has been taken.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u4	Yeah, that's what we got on the table now and... [[...]] [[Talk to each other.]] [[...]] In two cases we have found that the technique is not working, and I would ask that this issue be first clarified.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u5	Good. We'll be out of here in 10 minutes to review these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u6	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, we have checked Mr Tsukati's device and found that it is working today. I would like to warn you that you would be careful to press the button during the time that is going on and that you might see that perhaps there is no card inserted wrong, that the name and surname are on the visible side and that, please, you are paying attention to this work. We could only repeat it once more to find out the presence. Mr. Anderlich, then I give you my word. Thank you. Procedurally. Let's find out who's here! [[56 present.]] That's how the assembly is concluded and it can decide. Mr. Anderlich, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u7	Yesterday, when we received the extract, it was about 20 minutes or half an hour after the end of the session - unfortunately now technology does not allow us to get a vote statement just like in the previous Chamber - there was some doubt as Mr Pucko was not registered either. Of course, we did not want to make any specific conclusions from this, but it is obvious that on the other hand there is now some misunderstanding or doubts whether the devices are working or not. And I must say that this was a vote that is very important in many ways, and there is now doubt as to whether indeed it has been properly carried out. My procedural proposal is to repeat the vote. I'm saying, I didn't want it to look like yesterday because of Puck's incorrect registration of presence, but I know he was sitting here, and Mrs. Flower knows. And if the proposal is acceptable, and given that it is necessary to prepare a vote for such a point, in advance, I propose that this vote be repeated today at 6 p.m. or just before the end of today's session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u8	Thank you. Article 93 of the Rules of Procedure provides that a vote may be repeated if a Member objects to the proceedings or the conclusion of the outcome of the vote. The objection can only be made immediately following the publication of the outcome of the vote, but in view of the explanation that the outcome of the vote of Members is not available immediately and that Mr. Tukjat, and Mr. Pukšič, doubt as to the correctness of today's determination of the presence, has also indicated that the vote of yesterday has been delivered and has also stressed that his presence has not been recorded or that, as he voted, I propose that the State Assembly decide by vote on Mr. Anderlic's procedural proposal, [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] on the content. [[...]] Allow me first of all to refer to the procedural proposal, please allow me to conclude the vote on the election of the Ombudsman tomorrow after the exhausted items of Agenda 3 of the Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. We're picking up the presence! Mr. Anderlich, do you insist on the proposal? Please, calm down. Mr. Anderlich, do you insist on the proposal? Thank you very much. We're picking up the presence! I'll interrupt the session in 10 minutes to talk to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u9	Dear colleagues! We're continuing our session. Excuse me. We continue the meeting and determine the presence! There are 59 Members and Members present, plus Mr Špindler, Mrs Zalokar, Mr Bayuk. We are considering Mr Anderlich's procedural proposal. I would like to read again Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, which states: "If a Member objects to the proceedings or to the conclusion of the outcome of the vote, the vote may be repeated. The objection may only be raised immediately after the outcome of the vote has been published. The re-voting shall be decided by the State Assembly, without discussion and without explanation of vote, on a proposal from a Member objecting to the proceedings or finding the outcome of the vote or on a proposal from the President." I would like to interpret the words "after the vote" as follows: Yesterday, indisputably, 20 minutes after the meeting of the National Assembly, the Members had the opportunity to obtain a vote. No one objected to such a statement before the President of the National Assembly, so my interpretation of the word "so" is to this extent impossible to repeat and therefore I do not put Mr Anderlich's procedural decision to the vote. Mr. Anderlich, please. If you'll excuse me. Mr. Anderitch, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u10	I expected you to give such an explanation, given that this interpretation is incorrect, I do not object, but it is incorrect, given that this article of the Rules of Procedure cannot be implemented in this Chamber and the Secretary-General knows this well, because when the State Assembly moved to this Chamber, it was unquestionably clear that this would not be possible to do so, because if you wanted copies immediately and only on the basis of the statements after each vote, you would find out how someone voted not to do so, but that after the meeting this statement would be given or at any other time, a break. And of course in this case it was also, we did not interrupt the meetings and it was the first, first, possible deadline, in the first possible period, the copies were distributed to Members. I have neither wronged myself nor anything you quote there, but I have come from what we have already found yesterday, and from what Members have today cited as possible problems in voting. The proposal was completely corrected and in order to remove any doubt in this vote, in particular in order to avoid later, possibly debates, complications and so on. After all the violent reactions that have been that I don't think are in place. Those who disagreed with this proposal could have voted differently, but the reactions were what they were, I would have withdrawn this proposal in any case. However, I warn you, Madam President, that your interpretation is not correct or that we need to agree immediately on this or on how we will implement this Rule of Procedure at all. Just like you read it, we can't. So after each vote it is necessary to pause, get a copy and find out how someone voted. If, no, it is not true, Mr Brenčič, you know that in the previous Chamber you had a screen where you found out if you were wrong and you could get it regardless of whether the session was running, an extract and you could mediate. Now there's no way. I propose that it remain that we do not interrupt the meeting, that there remain an agreement, that the first recess, the first recess or the end of the sitting, or at any time, that this possibility and that since then this Rule of Procedure shall count, and not as you interpret, that it must be immediately after the vote, because it is not possible to do so. It's the most correct interpretation, otherwise it's not. If the President of the National Assembly interprets it differently, because I know he was involved in this explanation, then I will not agree with him either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Anderlich. If you don't mind, we'll just continue the session. In this case, we were dealing with a concrete objection, but it did not go in the direction of repeating the vote. I would like, and of course we will also make a proposal to the Rules of Procedure Commission to, however, address this word "so". Now, if you'll excuse me, we'd like to continue today's session. We invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting, which I welcome very much. Today's follow-up to the 3rd extraordinary meeting will begin with the consideration of item 4 of the agenda, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on public finances, and then on the agenda. Before starting the 4th item, I would like to inform you that the report of the parent's working body on the 6th item of the agenda is not yet ready for the proposal of the law on the amendments to the minimum wage law, the method of harmonising wages and the annual leave regression for the period 1999-2001 and it is likely to be for the afternoon part. And another message. That the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has not yet completed its consideration of item 18 of the agenda, this is a proposal for a law on specific control measures for shops at road border crossings. That's how we go to 4. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Public Finance Act, as soon as possible. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. We're starting our first hearing. Please, the government wants a word? Mr. Mag. Anton Rop, Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Under the provisions of Article 28 of the Public Finance Act, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should submit the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2001 to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by 1 October of this year. For various reasons, including the fact that there were elections during this period, the government did not do so. Thus, the 2001 draft budget is not in the National Assembly and it is therefore quite clear that the country will have to be temporarily financed in the first period, in the first quarter of the following year, in 2001. Under the provisions of the existing applicable law and Article 33 of the Public Finance Act, funds may be used up to a level proportionate to those used in the same period in the previous year's budget during the period of temporary financing. The fact is that such a certain amount of expenditure for the first three months of 2001 would amount to 229.7 billion Slovenian tolars, which, given the commitments already made in the budget and during this period, would present exceptional difficulties in the functioning of the country as well as in the payment of individual liabilities. The fact is that, in the previous year or this year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as soon as it took office in accordance with Article 40, has limited the expenditure incurred in this year and the possibility of direct budgetary users spending 32 billion Slovenian tolars, irrespective of the fact that, in the period when this was done, obligations have already been made under certain headings and that these obligations will, of course, burden the budget in accordance with this provision in 2001. Thus, according to the application of Article 40, the government managed to save 17 billion already this year, regardless of which, it is for 15 billion accounts to settle. However, they cannot be settled in accordance with the budget in force in 2000 but can only be settled from the budget in 2001. This means that, of course, these obligations will have to be settled immediately at the beginning of the following year. In addition, during the same period, there have also been exaggerations from the 2001 budget by individual ministries for about 17 billion, so we have about 32 billion Slovenian tolls to settle immediately at the beginning of the next year. This would, of course, mean that in a given way of calculating spending for 2001, we would have been in relatively exceptional difficulties and in a variant, including those arising from already adopted, the assumption of adopted amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, as well as to the Wages Act, would mean that, given social transfers, given the wage obligations, we would not be able to cover exactly any expenditure, for subsidies, for investments, for investment transfers. Where the payment item, expenditure on goods and services could have available resources of only 2 billion Slovenian tolars, the consumption in the first three months of last year was at this item of 18 billion. This, of course, means that the whole country would be in very great difficulty and that some of the functions of the country could virtually no longer be carried out in order for the country to become a large non-payment of accounts and, of course, to bring financial discipline to a minimum. So some basic functions of the state would be compromised. In order to prevent this from allowing for the normal functioning of the country, we propose to amend the Public Finance Act, for 2001 only, the principle of spending after twelve in line with the adopted budget for 2001, rather than with real consumption. If such a change were adopted today, this would allow the amount of possible spending for the first three months to rise to 264 billion. This means that we could cover these 32 billion commitments that take place at the beginning of the year, but the actual consumption would practically be at the same level of actual consumption last year for 3 billion only nominally higher, in short, 229 billion plus 3 billion. This means that even if we accept this change, of course, budgetary users will have very serious work ahead of them, as well as the Ministry of Finance, because some obligations will be able to meet to a relatively restrictive extent and it will be possible to cover certain obligations only to the extent that this is most necessary; for example, in subsidies we will cover those commitments to farmers for which we have committed ourselves on the basis of a subsidy tender which was launched and concluded in December, and we will cover part of these commitments now in December until the end, to those options that we have in line with the resources and the rest immediately in January. The same applies, for example, to investment transfers. Investment transfers mean, for example, transfers to Darsa - on this item we will be able to secure spending in the first three months, which will be 99% nominal for the first three months of last year, of course at a realistically significantly lower level. Of course, much depends on what you conclude and conclude at the next two points, so the point of pensions and the point of pay. If this is not accepted, we will still face significant problems in the first three months and the reduction of the possibility of spending on subsidies, investment and investment transfers will be significantly higher. So the government is convinced that this law must be adopted quickly. We have prepared, in accordance with the powers conferred on us by the Public Finance Act, already a temporary financing regulation. If you accept this, of course, we will be able to adopt a provisional financing regulation in the government tomorrow, publish it in the Official Journal, and the Regulation will enter into force on the day of the entry into force of this Act or the amendment of this Act. That is why I ask you, and I call on you to support the law and allow for the normal functioning of the country in the following year as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u13	Thank you very much, mag. Robbery. The draft law was also regarded by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the rapporteur, Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Willi Trophynik, to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u14	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, welcome and thank you for your word! The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposed law at its 3rd extraordinary meeting as the parent working body. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters. In the debate on the Committee, the members of the Committee accepted the applicant's argument that the amendment of the law was necessary in view of objective circumstances, since, contrary to the State budget, it could not ensure that the necessary costs were met at the beginning of the following year. The debate also found that the amendment of the law, which, in view of the restrictive provisions now in force under Article 32 of the Public Finance Act, allows for a slightly more favourable coverage of the State budget's obligations at the beginning of next year, does not fully address this problem. Since you received the opinion of the secretariat and the comments in writing and also our report, you would not have read or read it again. I would like to point out that the debate was rich and went slightly wider over the content and scope of the proposed amendment of the law and has already touched on the problem of temporary budgeting or temporary financing, which is in line with the Public Finance Act and under the responsibility of the government. Representatives of the government or of the bill's proponents mainly explained or answered the questions raised by the members of the committee in the additional explanations. The Committee also followed the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters that the proposed title of the law is not appropriate or consistent with its content and the Committee therefore proposes an amendment to the title of the law, as you have received in writing in the report of the Committee. And let me finish. The Committee adopted a decision to support both the speedy procedure and the adoption of the proposed law, including the amendment of the Committee to the title of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Trophynik. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mr. Rupar, please. SDS task force.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that! I'll be right out of here. I hope you don't mind me. The Social Democrats' Group will support the proposal for all the reasons listed and also because we are aware that the year has passed. We regret, however, that the budget prepared by the Bajuk government is over, but unfortunately it is not harmonised and, of course, we would very much like this budget to be taken into account as a basis for further work in the current government. I do not think that the proposal was bad, but of course there is a need for a lot of coordination. We would also like to draw attention to the warnings that the Ministry of Finance is supposed to send to the users of the budget, especially here I am referring to municipalities and institutions that are dependent or need to prepare their budgets in order to act in accordance with this adopted law, so that they do not rush on their heads according to the provisions of the law, I do not know, for example. the law on finance in municipalities and to draw up, on the basis of this recommendation, temporary funding in the coming year, unless the budget has already been adopted. However, we want the provisions of this law to be taken into account, in particular the obligations that some users of the budget have for the coming year, namely many accounts are Western. Of course, investors and those waiting for money will also take into account interest that is not small, and we are, of course, alerting them to the up-to-date or realisation of the provisions of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Does a representative of another parliamentary group want a word? Because he does not want me to give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm sorry. Mr. Contic, please. Since you didn't sign up, your debate could be five minutes long.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u18	Thank you very much. While the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Finance is not directly prejudiced, it is in fact without prejudice to the law on the financing of municipalities, but I have to note here the question of what is taken into account by means or whether these funds are taken into account in this amendment and in addition to the law on public finances or are also planned for the municipalities, although the law on the financing of municipalities speaks in Article 25 that it compensates 30% of the municipalities under the amendment then adopted in the adoption of the Law on Community Financing, on 31.12.2000 ends. This would, of course, mean that even though the Law on the Financing of the Communities is being amended at that time, it would mean that there are no or no funds provided, if these funds are not taken into account in the planning in accordance with this Law. This means, of course, for municipalities such as Maribor and Velenje, where I come from, for Velenje, slightly less, and for Maribor a considerable deficit in the budget of this city municipality. And I am particularly interested in whether these funds are taken into account in planning this temporary consumption or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u19	He wants a government representative to answer? Ms. Helena Kamnar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u20	In the preparation of temporary financing, we have of course taken into account the legislation in force, i.e. including Article 25 of the Law on Community Financing and, of course, the real possibilities offered by such amendments to the Law on Public Finances, which allow for the determination of individual amounts for financial settlement. However, the fact is that the financial compensation in temporary financing is not yet calculated at this point and will be calculated when we have a decision on temporary financing taken.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri. No, no, no. Mr. Mogue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u22	We are talking about temporary funding, but we also need to look at the year ahead, as well as the financing of local communities or especially urban communities, which is a very pressing problem here. In view of the fact that it has been introduced into the procedure, although we have already rejected the law on the capital of our country once, what was required of us was not done, however, the law on municipal municipalities was not done. So I would ask if it can be answered, of course, but this is not the matter of this law, how the government intends to solve this problem on a financial basis. This means that if there are any changes now, either in the capital law or if the government does not and Members will have to introduce a law on municipal municipalities, how will the financing problem be solved, while the state budget and budgets of local communities are flattened.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u23	Mrs. Kamnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u24	In this regard, I would just like to say that we are aware of the problem in the area of community funding, but the law on public finances is not really the place to solve this problem. When we resolve or eventually correct the Law on the Financing of the Congregations, of course, we will examine this well and find the most appropriate solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the last indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the discussion of the articles has been concluded, it shall discuss and vote on the draft law in its entirety, without title, as no amendments have been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. 65 Members and Members are present. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the law with two articles. I am putting forward such a proposal for a law in the debate. Who wants a word? Because you don't want a word, we're going to make a decision. I am putting to the vote a bill containing two articles. 69 Members and Members are present. Who's in favour of a bill with two articles? [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a law with two articles has been fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. In view of Mr Trofenik's explanation, the parent committee has tabled an amendment to amend the title of the bill by reading: "Proposal of a law supplementing the law on public finances." I am putting to the debate the amendment to the title of the law. Anybody want a word? I am putting to the vote an amendment to the title, as proposed by the home committee. 69 Members and Members are present. I'm putting an amendment to the title of the law to the vote. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment to the title of the law has been adopted and the title has been completely amended. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that only an amendment to the title of the bill was adopted in the second reading. If qualified candidates wish to table an amendment to the title of the law, please do so. Before that, I ask, does anyone want to discuss the marriage proposal in its entirety? No amendments, no suggestions. I conclude the debate and move on to a full vote on the law. There are 72 Members and Members present. We are voting on the bill as a whole. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. And that concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Peace and Disability Act - Quick procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with the first signed Cyril Puck. Does the proposer's representative want a word? Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u26	Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u27	I'm sorry. I didn't see it. Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me to propose a procedural proposal to remove the law from consideration. I'll give you the reasons now. On 5 December, Member Cyril Pucko adopted a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on pension and disability insurance, which was submitted by Member of the National Assembly, Janez Kopač. There have been some errors in the adoption of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u29	Mr. Petty Officer, allow me to interrupt. The withdrawal of the bill is considered in the drafting of the business agenda, and at this stage the law can only be adopted or rejected. Unfortunately, I have to stop you here because, in order to deal with this proposal now, we would be in breach of the rules of procedure. Thank you. Mr. Proposer, Mr. Potch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The first person to sign a bill amending and supplementing the law on pension and disability insurance, Member Cyril Pucko, has asked me, as one of the co-proposals, because he is absent alone, to make some introductory remarks to the proposed law. The law was further tabled by Member Cyril Pucko, and later, after joint coordination within the framework of the four coalition parties, we signed it or together submitted representatives of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the United List of Social Democrats, the SKD + SLS of the Slovenian People's Party and the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Our joint assessment was that two fundamental objectives should be achieved in the context of amendments and legislative additions. For the first time, maintain the principle of the co-dependence of pensions with the movement of wages. Secondly, the implementation of this principle should be maintained to the greatest extent possible in order to ensure that pensions are adjusted and harmonised in the amount and timeliness of the country's salaries, in order to minimise non-compliance and to ensure that the different periods of compliance with pension reconciliation are to the maximum extent taken into account for a longer period of time, so that, as has been the case here and there, in practice, the different wage movements in the individual months of the "vis-a-vis" pension movement would not be disproportionate. On the basis of these principles, we have prepared amendments and additions to the proposed law, which we believe are following these guidelines, as the system provides for regular coordination of pensions as a rule in January or in other deadlines to be set for harmonising the salaries of all employees in each calendar year. Moreover, as a system, it is envisaged that, if wage movements in a given year compared to pension movements are disproportionate, the pension and disability insurance institution in September would find such non-compliance, and if it finds a different rate or a faster rate of wage movement than pensions, it will also compensate in September. Such a September increase is then taken into account in the next increase in January. It was also necessary to establish a transitional period.In this transitional period, we have foreseen that, exceptionally for 2001, the reconciliation of pensions would take place in February, namely, for the percentage of the increase in the average salary paid between June 2000 and December, from June, because the last reconciliation of pensions was made in May - and that, exceptionally this year, an increase in the payment of pensions would be compared to the salary paid in May of this year. It is our belief that, on the basis of the text prepared, it is also possible to continue to ensure the correct alignment of pensions with wage movements and to eliminate any anomalies that would occur in order to take account of the different deadlines and the different movements in different periods. In the home work body, the proposal has received support, and what is particularly pleased with us, it has also experienced understanding in the Union of Pensioners of Slovenia as a realistic proposal, which guarantees all the fundamental principles that we have advocated so far regarding pensions as the continuation of the payment of the earned past work in all the implementation of the pension system. I propose that the law, including amendments, which were then adopted on the home labour body, be supported and adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a mother's labour force. I ask the rapporteur, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and fellow Members, representatives of the government, welcome! At its 2nd extraordinary meeting on 14.12.2000, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons addressed a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on pension and disability insurance submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by a group of Members with the first signed Mr Cyril Puck. Well, since this report is quite a long time, but you've got it in writing in time enough and you can examine it in detail, allow me just a few basic warnings from its contents. The applicant, it is said to be the first to sign, explained the procedure, that is to say, a rapid procedure on the grounds that the adoption of this law is, of course, in the interest of the State and, in particular, in the interests of the insurers and pensioners. In presenting the content of the law, the applicant pointed out that the Pension and Disability Insurance Act maintained the principle of harmonisation of pensions with the movement of average salaries per employee. Pensions shall be coordinated on the basis of statistics on the increase in average salaries from the month from which the salaries were taken into account in the last reconciliation of pensions. In contrast, the adjustment of pensions and the constantly changing monthly wage level of employees were necessary at a time of great inflation, which no longer corresponds to the current situation in this area. With regard to the reasons for amending and supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the applicant stated that the minimum wage law governing wage coordination in 2000 and the first half of 2001 had been laid down in January 2000. In doing so, it was necessary to adjust the pension levels of wages paid from September to including November 1999, which included additional payments, that is to say, Christmases and so on. With this, pensions were aligned, as required by law, with the average salary paid for the month of November. However, subsequent salary payments to pension levels had no effect, despite their additional increase in December 1999. The November level of reconciliation of pensions exceeded only the salaries paid in May. Well, the new arrangement ensures the harmonisation of pensions in January and other deadlines set for the harmonisation of wages. However, in the event of diverging developments, there is an additional possibility for the coordination of pensions to take place during the year as well. However, specific for 2001, Article 1, paragraph 4, with a specific scheme, provides for the coordination of pensions. The Committee was given an opinion by the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, which has no comments on the compatibility of the proposal with the Constitution. With regard to its legal system compliance or legal processing, however, it considers that certain provisions should be further examined in the proposed text of the articles and that the individual solutions are sufficiently clear, i.e. they should not be put into practice later on. In the light of the proposed content or the text of the fourth paragraph of Article 1, the Secretariat points out that the nature of the transitional arrangements is to be excluded from the text of the proposed amendments and the addition of Article 150 of the Act into a separate transitional provision of this amendment. Of course, the Committee also received a timely opinion from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which supports and supports the rapid procedure, and notes that the text of the proposed amendments and additions changes the way in which pension growth is adjusted so far, thereby eliminating the disproportionateity in coordination resulting from the lack of respect for the average wage movement during the year, while at the same time maintaining the principle of the harmonisation of pensions in relation to the movement of employees' salaries. In the long debate, the members of the Committee also associated their substantive debate on individual solutions in the draft law with a debate on how to take a more consistent approach to the implementation of certain other provisions in the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, while agreeing with the applicant that the draft law should be dealt with in a rapid manner which would dictate the interests of the State and the affected, both the insured and the pensioners. Some members of the Committee felt that more precise calculations of the financial effects of the draft law should be shown in relation to the financial implications. With regard to these certain uncertainties, as well as other uncertainties in the implementation of the individual provisions of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, other laws which are systematically inconsistent with the basic pension law, the members also felt that necessary amendments should be made. Therefore, an additional decision was also adopted after the discussion to this end, which I will then forward to you later. On the basis of a discussion between the members of the Committee and the proposers and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the opinion of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, the Committee adopted the amendment to Article 1 and the amendment to Article 1a, which form an integral part of this report. Following the discussion and the amendments adopted, the Committee adopted the following decision: "The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on pension and disability insurance should be considered and adopted together with the amendments of the Committee by rapid procedure." As I have already mentioned, an additional decision was adopted, which reads as follows: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall, by the end of March 2001, examine further inconsistencies and shortcomings in the implementation of the individual provisions of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act and prepare and submit to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and adoption of appropriate amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u33	Thank you. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? Here you go, Minister Dimovski.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and honourable Members! In view of the detailed presentation by the representative of the proposer and the chairman of the parent committee of a proposal to amend the law on pension and disability insurance in its 150th Article, let me mention that the Government supports the amendment of this law for the following reasons: - for the first time since it allows for a coordinated movement of salaries and pensions, - secondly, since the seasonal or cyclical influence that was present in the previous decree of this law is eliminated, - thirdly, since there is also a guardian in the proposal to amend Article 150 which allows for greater coordination between pensions and salaries, - and because there is also a transitional period in the proposal to amend the law, allowing a gradual transition to a new way of calculating pensions. At the same time, we support all the amendments proposed by the home committee. Thus, through our brief presentation and our support for the changes to the law and the amendments, we have presented our opinion in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mr. Janez Petty Officer was the first to sign up.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u36	Hello, Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice-President, because you took it away from me a little earlier, without actually violating the rules of procedure, but you took my word at the basic human level in order to make a procedural proposal. However, I will take this opportunity to give further reasons why I have proposed or intended to make a proposal to withdraw this law from the agenda. Let me continue where I left off. The adoption of the proposed law was taken over by Cyril Pucka, Member of Parliament on 5 December. It's a mag proposal. Janez Kopač, a Member, of this Act, referred solely to the determination of the previous period for raising the age requirement for the exemption of self-employed persons who fulfil certain conditions of insurance in a manner similar to that of the other categories which are progressively exacerbated. This was the content of the law proposed by the Magi. John the Ripper and took over Cyril Pucka. Accordingly, the further procedure for the adoption of legislation should also go in this direction. Then came a proposal for a law that was completely different from the one that was the subject of the motion. In the summer, the National Assembly commissioned the Government or adopted a decision at its meeting on 27 July 2000 proposing to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on pension and disability insurance submitted for admission after a reduced procedure. In this law, it should be addressed in addition to that topic, which was included in Mr Kopač's first proposal, including the issue of insurance bases, the inequality of entities and other issues related to the issue of pension fund financing and the equalisation of pension and disability insurance rights and obligations. So in the direction in which the reasons for the introduction or the proposal for an additional decision were already given by the Chairman of the Committee on Labour, Family, Health and Disabled Persons. As we see, the current proposal regulates something completely different, namely only the harmonisation of pensions. So he's not identical. Therefore, the serious shadow of the irregularity of the procedure has fallen and I am therefore referring the question to the secretariat for legislation to explain how it is with this matter. It would, of course, be possible for the government to put forward a proposal such as that of the National Assembly with its decision and to resolve procedural and substantive problems. This is, of course, a key reason why I have proposed the withdrawal of the law from consideration. Now it's about the content of the law. In principle, we do not object, New Slovenia does not oppose the prompt alignment of pensions with wage growth, but we need to know what the financial implications of this law are for the budget. On the committee, I asked the chairman and also the minister to explain the financial implications of the introduction of this law. I have received an answer from the chairman that there is no need to explain the negative or the impact of the law on budget cuts. This is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The second paragraph of Rule 175 of the Rules of Procedure reads as follows: "Evaluation of the financial resources from the State budget and other consequences to be incurred by the adoption of the law shall mean: a quantitative assessment of the direct and indirect annual budgetary expenditure or revenue incurred in the event of the adoption of the legislative provisions, an assessment of the proposed legal solutions and their financial implications in the light of the provisions of the budgetary memorandum and the state budget." So, the thing is clear: grades should be. When we asked the government representative about the financial implications, he did not give a clear answer. Therefore, my question, of course, is to clarify again whether there are any effects, because he spoke about the effects, but he did not say what they would be like; to explain quantitatively, as set out in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. There's something else about content. From the examination of the proposal, it can be argued that there will be a reduction of rights, mainly because the basic parameters of the starting wages are introduced into the process, that they are the basis for the coordination of pensions. And we know how they go. The actually paid salaries paid by employers are higher than the growth of the starting salary, which will mean that the amount of pension funds will be reduced. There is a fear that, in the absence of an agreement on wage growth, minimum remuneration and so on, if this agreement is not reached, there will be no harmonisation. The first harmonisation takes place only in September, by starting to pay the wages of the first month. This means that even the period until September there will be no harmonisation if an appropriate agreement is not reached. So this is some serious concerns about the adoption of this law. Once again, our Group advocates that pensions be paid in accordance with wage growth, current and coordinated, so that no one is deprived. The public also wonders, especially the media, a very different interpretation is the journalists themselves, this can be seen, of course, which can mean that the law is not clear, that it is complex, incomprehensible, that it is questionable. And then some of the official explanations of the proposalr, that is, the government or the ministry, about the effects or consequences of this law, which are official to the media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer, just an explanation. I have taken the floor in good faith earlier because at this stage of the procedure where we are now, it is not possible to discuss and I wanted to save you your time. I'm sorry. Mag. Mr Andrej Vizjak, on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u38	President, thank you so much for your words! Nice greetings to Members and Members of Parliament, representatives of the proposer and also the government. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia, I say that we do not support the proposed amendments to the law on pension and disability insurance, which is based primarily on the following arguments. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the proposal for amendments to the law does not address the shortcomings of the current law, which is not fair, is not selective and has produced a huge hole in the pension register within a short period of time. Nor does the Group support this law, as my predecessor has already said, because it is impossible to understand the financial implications of the changes in the way pensions are coordinated, how dynamic pensions will be reduced in the future or how dynamic this financial deficit of the pension fund will be addressed and, of course, it is not possible to understand how much will be reduced in the future pension. On the home committee, I was very surprised by the position of DeSUS Members, as well as some other parliamentary groups, that they were supporting the bill because of their state-of-the-art and understood the problem. At the same time, it was possible to understand the fundamental breach of all pre-election promises, as already in the first steps of this National Assembly, these parliamentary groups propose to intervene in pensions or to intervene in a way of coordinating pensions and thus, of course, at the level of pensioners' pensions in the future. The Social Democratic Party would support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on pension and disability insurance, which in a comprehensive manner would, in a clear financial way, remedy the situation or deficit in the pension register. I would stress, however, that he would be selective and fair, which would not strike everything on average on all pensions, but which would spare the lower pensions a little bit and lower coordination or mode of coordination for the higher. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u39	Thank you. On behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members, Mr Ivan Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u40	Madam Vice President, thank you so much for saying this. Dear colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Secretary and others present! No change that does anything better for anyone or for the most part is welcome. However, changes always hurt someone sooner or later when it comes to one’s interests, of course it must go to the detriment of another. In the parliamentary group and in our democratic party of Slovenian pensioners - DeSUS with regard to the breadth we have, and proof that we are not a narrow segment interested in only one part, but precisely because we want to participate constructively in the progress of our country and the well-being of all citizens, we have also participated in this amendment to Article 150 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which deals with the coordination of pensions. We have maintained the principle, and we are proud of the fact that pensioners take into account that pensions depend on the level of wages, that their coordination is in line with wage increases and that pensions must be increased accordingly. In particular, it has been achieved that the Institute of Civil Society, which brings together over 430 pension societies, has included a very good half of all pensioners and pensioners - with understanding we have reached a certain agreement in the debates. It is not a case that we have the next item at this meeting, which speaks of minimum wages - it would be better if it were before that, but it would be even better for the government to submit to us a proposal for a law to regulate salaries in the public sector, in which it has a decisive impact. Unfortunately, I am sure that we should adopt at least such a position that by the end of the half-year next year we will have to regulate the public sector's systemic wages, which are very important deltas for the coordination of pensions and directly concern this law. We have maintained all the other principles, i.e. the intergenerational agreement, including the fact that nominal pensions cannot be reduced, we have put in place a fuse for each case, although some have argued that it is not necessary to verify in September what has so far been the main indication of the reconciliation of pensions, that at a certain time the pensions are moving ahead of wages. The argument that we refer to in our Group of Members is a little different. The fact is that this can happen in a certain period of time, but the fact is that in the last quarter, wages are paid a little higher - and we will say, no matter what term or name someone uses for something: Christmas or for a new year, or profit or 13th salary - then wages rise. In doing so, we must bear in mind that we consider all the wages that are prescribed for the payment of contributions; whether they are always paid or not, this is the second chapter. However, it is essential that pensions are aligned with the two-month delay, given that the Bureau of Statistics is not in a position to identify wages on the way. The fact that we need to take into account is that in the month the wages earned are paid only next month, because we know that the public administration receives salaries at the beginning of the month for the past month. We are very sorry that many employees are paid only in the middle of the month, but many others are not even in that month, and with a delay of two or more months. We conclude by fully understanding everything that is going on in our country and that pensioners have always stressed and stressed and we represent this view that we want pensioners to share the fate of employees in good and bad. It is also true that something bad is happening, but if, in the next item, we also adopt a minimum wage law and if the government takes account of this position and if you vote to present a public sector wage law as soon as possible, which is directly, I repeat, related to the movement of pensions, then we believe that we will achieve some co-existence, that we will achieve in a manner of tolerance, that in the future we will no longer be seeing one from another, and that we will be a homogeneous society with the desire for good progress, good mutual understanding and a good increase in prosperity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u41	Thank you. On behalf of the SLS+SKD Group, Mr Stanislav Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u42	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President! In the SLS+SK Group, we are aware of the reality of the state of public finances or, rather, the ability of the state budget to provide the necessary resources to budget consumers, who also have coverage in the necessary laws. It certainly includes a large-scale pension and disability insurance institution. We therefore support the content of the law and also support the rapid procedure. We believe that a measure to change pension coordination systems to an anticipatory principle is necessary and good, not only because it works positively towards balancing public finances, but also especially because it greatly contributes to ensuring a long-term and stable source of pension payments. In view of the urgency and the need to change the coordination of pensions, which is also linked to the new wage policy agreement, we support the resolution of this novelty within the pension and disability insurance system only of this weakness, but only of the coordination of pensions. However, it is essential that the Government or the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs take immediate action to amend and supplement the law in those provisions which have proven to be flawed, inconsistent or sometimes quite inanimate in implementation practice. This is mainly the case with Article 156 and Article 209 of the basic statutory law on pension and disability insurance. Also, in the Group of Members, we are asked whether, on the basis of only a satisfactory system of pension payments, there will be scope and justification to follow coordination, explicitly linked only to the average wage growth. Because the average wage growth is always and more affected by the rapidly changing professional structure of employees. It happens to us that, above all, in the labour intensive sectors, wages are already lagging behind in the amount of pensions paid, given that these pensioners have obtained this pension in these sectors. This is a topic you want or don't want to face in this term, but let's leave it. As it is said, the SLS+SKD Group insists on supporting the rapid or immediate adoption of this law, this amendment, together with the amendments tabled by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u43	Thank you. On behalf of the LDS Group, Mrs Cveta Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u44	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would like to present the position of the LDS Group on amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. We will support the proposal in our parliamentary group, as we estimate that it is, in a sense, necessary. In doing so, we were guided by a fundamental principle, which is to maintain the relative movement of pensions and salaries, as the proponents also wrote. We would like to point out that this is not about freezing and it is not about reducing, but that coordination is done in such a way that salaries and pensions are coordinated evenly. However, it should be pointed out that in 2001 pensions will be raised and coordinated, with the amendment of the law there will be only corrected anomalies and disproportionateities, especially in view of the salary rises in November and December, or in view of the payments raised by counterpart Kebric. Of course, in the LDS Group, we were guided by the idea that such measures must be distributed equally among all segments of the population. We will therefore also support the amendments to the Minimum Wages and Wage Coordination Act, which we also have today on the agenda of the National Assembly and will concern employees. It is true that such measures are generally taken with fear, so they must be such that no layer is privileged or deprived. At the same time, we respect and are pleased with the opinions of the Association of Retired Slovenian Associations, which adopted amendments to the law with understanding. It surprises me that even more understanding than the opposition in our national assembly. Sometimes it is also necessary to accept changes that have already been made in order to make it easier later, and of course the one who thinks ahead and acts responsibly. Public finances will be more robust, irresponsible, and most of the action they like could endanger pensions and their full payment. That is why we will act responsibly in our Group of Members and support the changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u45	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members of the Joint List of Social Democrats, Ms Danica Simšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u46	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Government! In the parliamentary group of the Joint List of Social Democrats, we will support the proposed law or amendments to the basic law. Regardless of the fact that the law has only two articles, we are aware of its exceptional importance and necessity. We believe, however, that it must be absolutely clear and frankly said that it is an extraordinary intergenerational agreement and the preservation of this intergenerational agreement with such a solution, not only between the generations of pensioners and the generation of employees, as we have repeatedly stressed, but even wider. It is an intergenerational agreement between pensioners, employees and the young generation. It is not only about resolution of public finances, it is also about the development component in this country. And also because of this aspect, we support the proposal of this law in our parliamentary group. We also support it because, however, the proposed mode of coordination somewhat corrects the current mode of coordination, which we have already warned in the Group of Members in recent years that it was not the happiest and most appropriate, that is also from this point of view. One more thing to say is that all recognition, in fact, to that part of the civil society, is to pensioners who, despite having the right under the existing law to different coordination and to a different escalation, are aware of their responsibilities and are willing to almost halve it into the welfare of the development of this country and, of course, the future of the young generation. That is why we will also fully support this bill with the proposed amendments in the Consolidated List of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u47	Thank you. Representatives of the parliamentary groups who wanted to have the floor received the floor. I now give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. They applied for the debate in the following order: first Mr France Tsukati, then Mr Jožef Jerovšek, and Mr Rudolf Petan. Mr. Franc Tsukati, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u48	Your Honor! In the pension register, she saw a large rope that must be filled somehow. That's a fact he doesn't object to. It is not a question of whether or not it is necessary to amend only a year old pension and disability insurance law. The question is how and on whose shoulders we will solve the shortcomings of pension policy to date. The proposal before us will introduce a new way of coordinating pensions. Revalorisation will be delayed and all pensions will actually fall by the same percentage, which is only seemingly fair and in fact very unfair to the lowest pensions. See, all pensioners, whether they have a low or a high pension, receive the same rates for water, electricity, central heating, telephone, television, additional insurance, and if added to bread and milk, this is the minimum subsistence allowance, then all pensioners have the same fixed cost of basic survival, about 50,000 tolars per month. Thus, at the retirement rate of 60,000 tolars per month remains at the disposal of the pensioner of 10,000 tolars for the so-called improved and personal standards. This is to ensure the quality of life. At the defeat of 200,000 tolars a month, there remain 150,000 tolars. The current ratio of pensions 1:3 is therefore the ratio of the economic conditions of ensuring the quality of life already 1:15. In the event of both of us lowering our pension by, for example, 10%, the first one will receive instead of 60 thousand 54 thousand tolars, and the second one will receive instead of 200 thousand 180 thousand tolars. The first, after the fixed costs are met, will be 4 thousand and the second will be 130 thousand dollars, which means the ratio is already 1:32. The first one will fall to the economic conditions of quality of life from 10 to 4 thousand tolars, that's 60%, the second one is 150 to 130 thousand, that's 13%. A flat-rate, non-selective reduction in pensions can be a force of injustice from the point of view of social policy. That is why I cannot agree with this way of managing the pension deficit. Indeed, our economy will no longer be able to bear the burden of excessive pensions. With current economic and demographic policies, we probably will not be able to patch up the pension gap any differently than by tightening the pensioner's belt. But if there ever is, it is now time to at least narrow the gap between the smallest and the highest pension. If it were political will, it would not be difficult to create a suitable coordinating key whereby lower pensions would be spared by additional pruning. We have enshrined in the Constitution that we are a social state. However, when I proposed such an approach to the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, I was the most critical of all by the representative of the Democratic Party of Pensioners and by the President of the Association of Retired Persons. The President's argument that the pension is not a gift, a state, but an individual, social, economic category, which has been paid and earned, has in no way convinced me. If the pension is not a social category, then we do not need a pension and disability insurance institution. Then all we need is an income savings at the Ljubljana Bank. Then he who did not have the opportunity to go to school, had no influential uncles or political boutiques when looking for a job, and at the top of all, it was a shame that the managers had taken over the company in which he could at least do something for a wage, and then the poor bastard would also be miserable after retirement. Not on your own account! Unhappiness, without the basic conditions for a man's decent life. I agree that our pension system is not yet a social category, but we regret that the latest proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on pension and disability insurance does not approach us, but rather distances us from the constitutional requirement to become a social state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on pension and disability insurance has had a rather severe impact on the majority of pensioners, in particular on the recipients of average and under-average pensions. In any case, it means reducing the rights of pensioners. We have heard somewhere, although government officials are persistently hiding real numbers, that there are about 30 billion pension cuts in the following year. And since this will be disproportionately distributed, as I said, to average and under-average pensions, this is, of course, an attack on the social status of the majority of the pension population. Nevertheless, this law must also be viewed from one point of view. Indeed, the ruling coalition could not bring into Parliament a more transparent mirror of its action and a mirror in which pre-election promises can be mirrored. Not two months after the election, 5.12. the ruling coalition passed this law, which actually means much more. In fact, it means acknowledging that talking about how successful governance has been in the past years, talking about success stories, talking about healthy finances, and even that it was unjustifiable, that it was only an electoral fraud and that there was a pre-election promise in every function. This law finally gives us a clear picture of the situation in public finances and the economy. The house fell off the map. Finally, as an opposition, we must welcome him because he is finally pouring pure wine and finally pouring it on the state of the country. Finally, the ruling coalition itself has shown how it ruled in recent years. If all that was true, what they had promised all along, when they attacked another government that had clearly spoken to the electorate, then two months after the election, there would be no such law. Look, one of the ruling parties, DeSUS, threatened at all the pensioners' assemblies that were not even party, that the government that was then in power was preparing a change of law to ensure that their party, in coalition with the largest party, would not change the pension law. They ate the promise to the electorate within an extremely short period of time, which surprises me. Of course, that is why it is so clear that the situation in public finances is catastrophic that there is absolutely nothing left of the success story. But I wonder why they didn't find this 30 billion elsewhere. Why would they demolish and clean up the police, where the current police leadership of this 30 billion could find it extremely fast to biocover more state corruption. Look! The examples of Schušter, Kodrich, are so transparent that it is known, but the spears immediately began to break on the shoulders of pensioners. But that file will close and stop, probably. This cannot be agreed with. In fact, something needs to be done to make sure that even what has been wrong in all these years, which means the huge billions of money that has flowed into the pockets of individuals, that the ruling coalition should make an effort, not that it adopts a law that can not only mean freezing, as the Lord has previously found. If there's no pay agreement, it's a pension freeze. The representative of one of the ruling parties said earlier that they were aware of the situation in public finances. Why didn't the voters say this before the elections, what is the situation in public finances? And, of course, it is necessary to say here that the pensioners' society should accept this generously. Who represents the pensioners' society? Mr. Vinko Gobeck is at the convention [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Threatened the pensioners that the Bajuk government would change the law, that there would be no pension. [[...]] Of course, it is now completely different, but it is not in fact legitimate representatives of society, these are self-proclaimed representatives and certainly pensioners, although ours are understandable, but they are not a category of people who should be able to tolerate all aspects of governance in this country indefinitely. Once again, I thank the ruling coalition for this law, because, as I said, a better mirror and a better way to show voters how they ate the pre-election promises, what was the situation in the country, much worse than they said, a better way and a better mirror we could not imagine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Such a law as it is before us is certainly not possible to accept. I am not saying that the law itself does not have certain positive intentions, but only as long as we are talking at the declaration level, globally and globally. But when we get to the implementation level, to the consequences, we see that the real picture is that the law, whatever it is that talks about saving, and this law has the only purpose of saving, we can't really read anything. However, as I said, something else is essential at the implementation level. Surely the government is aware of this and therefore does not, does not, cannot explain the financial consequences, the real financial consequences of this law. If I said there were no consequences, it would be a little too bad, it would be too much of a lie and it doesn't. If I said that there would be negative consequences, it would be an even bigger lie, so don't do that. However, if I said that there would be positive consequences, that would mean savings, but every Slovenian would understand that saving on pension work means so much less for pensioners. That's what everyone can figure out what that means. That would be unacceptable, and he doesn't want that. He doesn't want to show this transparently and clearly. The fact is, it's about saving, and we've already missed our savings. Those who know public finances in Slovenia will know exactly that austerity measures should start in 1995. I didn't name it by accident in 1995, but there's something else I can say about it later. The fact is also that it is a matter of covering the pension financial hole, which is nothing wrong in the global, but again as we say, the problem is in detail. It's only about saving at the expense of the pensioners. I can say calm souls, you've gone after the pensioners, as many as we know, but there's also a problem in the details, not everything evenly. The fact is that the pensioners will receive between 25 billion and 30 billion less. These are the facts that cannot be passed. The fact that it is so gracious and with his left hand notes that the pensioners have accepted this with understanding. Who did we ask? That's what the officials are talking about. They're supposed to be representing the pensioners. Ask the pensioners! Ask them, and tell them what is true, and pour them pure wine! Will they agree so graciously? Probably not. So it's also misleading the public, misleading the pensioners; it's their account. Next thing you know, you have to say. It's a line-up on the pensioners. I didn't see that it wasn't linear. Respected, if those who have a minimum pension are reduced by a percentage, two, three, that means enormous; of course, those who have the highest are better acquainted with the absolute amount, but they are still so high that they do not present any problem. So before that, I said to ask the pensioners, the ones with the lowest pensions, what it means to save on their account, linear, on average. Next thing you know, it's a warning. This law, whatever it is and whoever proposed it, means that with all the talk about the pension reform recently implemented, something was wrong that it was not a pension reform. And in the opposition, in the Social Democratic Party, we have warned of this. Look at the magnetograms. It is not now a reminder that this pension reform, which was not a pension reform, was merely the preservation of the privileges of those privileged pensioners to say it now, that is what we have pointed out at that time, and that is a fact. The fact that now that the government has barely begun its work, it wants to do so quickly [[...]] [[Someone turned me off. Good. I don't know who it was, because I didn't see it. If you saw it from there, fine.]] This shows that this reform has been misimposed. The goals were known, but the presentation was completely wrong. The fact that we already have a correction called saving shows that this was wrong; it was not a pension reform, but it was, as I have already said, the maintenance of privileges already privileged. And what we have before us today, linear savings, again, means maintaining privileges. As I have already said, and I have also mentioned a little bit, it doesn't matter what linear saving means for the one with the highest pension and the one with the lowest pension - these are essential differences. For those with the lowest pension, this can mean an existing problem. The fact is, we should take these issues more selectively and find some durable resources to solve, so that we do not make any adjustments every so long, but always at the expense of the lowest ones. It's either a violation or a forgetfulness or a conscious forgetfulness of what we promised before the elections, what you promised, that's your problem, that's not my problem. You'll have to tell the voters why you ate the matter so quickly. But it's something else. The point is that all pensioners will be deprived, regardless of the political definition, and that is the worst. And one more thing. Those pensioners who are more likely to be affected by your political options will, of course, be less affected because they probably have higher pensions. That's the main problem. The fact is, there can be no saving at the expense of pensioners, especially those with the lowest pensions. It is true that there are the most, and that at the expense of those who are the most to save the most, but thus cannot be done. Savings would have to be done earlier and not exactly in this place. The fact that someone who calls for a sole and credible representative of pensioners says that it is also supported by creative cooperation in the government is probably not enough. I should have told my constituents sooner, and they'll soon know who he's representing. Or the pensioners you say have taken this saving with understanding or someone else. That's unacceptable. As I said earlier, saving should have started five years ago. Bankers also meet in these days. Their meetings made it clear that there was a breakdown in public finances in 1995. At that time something "screech" began, but the government has since 1995 - we know who had the government - did not have this crust to cut into public finances without the severe consequences and start running another policy, but it did not work. Today, however, we are facing severe problems, and the government obviously sees no other solution than to strike after pensioners and start saving on their behalf. This is not going to work, and therefore this law, such as it is, which does not systematically and linearly save everything on average, is not acceptable and therefore, of course, I cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u53	Thank you. I had previously overlooked the replica of Mrs. Cveta Zalokar-Orzam to Mr. Jožet Jerovška. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'd like to replicate my colleague Jerovska. I think he obviously listened to other pre-election talks and read other pre-election promises. As far as I know, our party, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, has never talked about the fact that many very urgent measures will need to be remedied immediately after the elections. I do not think that what Mr Jerovšek said was simply not true. At the same time, it does not fool me at the opening speech of Prime Minister Drnovšek, who I think in the first three sentences, at the presentation of the government, the biggest part of the speech. The second is that, according to the known data, many countries or, in fact, all countries in the European Union have problems with pension money. Slovenia is not special and in Slovenia we do nothing special with our pensioners. However, problems do not arise because we would have bad governance, but because demographics are changing because people are living longer, because pensioners are becoming more and more and, of course, reforms are needed in all countries. In Germany, if I have the correct information where social democracy rules, Chancellor Schroeder has achieved a two-year pension freeze, that he is also in this country, which is probably more economically successful than we have started reforms in this area. As for the debate of my colleague Tsukati. I think the theory of the same stomachs is one big demagogy and it comes from an ideology that's long since, I think, extinct. Of course, such debates, I think, are wrong and are not going anywhere. It's the next step, let's all have the same salary, etc. But I think these times are over, and fortunately we've already survived them. But that pension in our country is a social category, I think it's a fact. If we only remember the fact that almost one fifth of the state budget will be allocated to the pension fund, which means that this company and all of us have to commit a lot of money to ensure that pensions are paid. One fifth of the budget will have to be channelled to the pension register. I think that's a big enough argument to give pensioners some serious thought.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Pavel Rupar also made a written statement to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your word. Thank you. Perhaps there would be some replicas in this package first to my colleague Zalokareva. True, I am also personally sorry that pensions are becoming a social category, even though it is prejudiced that you are receiving a social pension, nonsense. These pensions have been earned by people and are no mercy and are not a social category, but the rights that people have signed when they work with different funds and institutions. As part of this law alone, I think it's a pretty bad move, especially for those pensioners who are in the lower classes of retirement. Of course, the solution to the bad pension law now can be devised by the government or the proponents as slowly as possible by the pieces here and there, but I still insist, as in the previous mandate, that the pension law is bad, and if the government wants to change in any way in this area, it must first undertake a thorough correction of the adopted law. I am sorry that DeSUS, who is supposed to be the representative of the pensioners, has once said even all pensioners in Slovenia, in this regard wash their hands by speaking demagogically about government participation, contribution to the development of our country and so on. So these are completely blank words, and I think it's a shame that after the elections now they're so excused. I am sorry that, in the previous mandate, they did not speak in such a way, but on the contrary, in order to fight for as many pensions as possible, and for as much money as possible in these funds, although at that time a number of warnings were made that they were not otherwise than to provide for privileged pensions and for those who, in our view, were unjustifiable, they were accepted only on the basis of their proposals and with the support of the then coalition partners on the basis of those who, in our opinion, did not receive a legitimately high pension. Now that it's on everyone's tab and on account of when you have to swallow your pre-election words and promises, also on account of those who receive small pensions. Why? More than once, it has been said today that of course it doesn’t matter whether you lower someone’s pension at 45, 50 grand or more, at 200 or more. That is why we have prepared in the parliamentary group a studyamendment to make this law applicable to pensions, but those that are more than 100,000 tolars, in order to help those whom the colleague also said could be classified as socially weak. But we didn't get another key answer. In fact, neither the minister, nor anyone in the government, nor the proposer knows us and did not want to or did not want to tell us how much savings will be made in this law in the state budget. If rumors of 32 billion are justified, then I'll say that the result is surprising and good. However, I must say immediately that this means about 5% of the real reduction in pensions, if so. Because, like Mr. Kebrich, he realized that if you take someone else, you save them somewhere else, that's what he's holding. And I'd like you, including the media, to tell people that this government has begun to feed on pensions in order to somehow fill these gaps in the pension fund. And clearly and loudly it is necessary to tell people that pensions will be reduced by 5 percent or perhaps even more in the coming year alone. Whoever talks about good coordination, fair coordination, doesn't tell the truth. If pensions were to be coordinated with inflation or with wage increases, then I would agree because pensioners would somehow catch the growth of these two segments. However, there is no way that I can accept the fact that they will be nowhere and never know anything, since we know that monthly inflation is, say, about one percent, but that pensions will be harmonised six or nine months ago, so this is the time in which pensions will actually be frozen. If we go to the past, we can find that for at least six of these months or 5 to 6% of this pension will always be lagging behind the rise in wages or inflation. However, we also know that price coordination goes up monthly, that is to say monthly, and, of course, from this title, it is necessary to say clearly and loudly to the pensioners: your representatives in the National Assembly, DeSUS and others, risked you to fill that gap. Of course, in this period of adoption of all these laws, we say that now we need to look at the real situation, that we need to act as soon as possible in order for matters to be settled, but I must point out that I fear that we are late in this; that eight years of the rule of this same government and other partners have been poor. So it is only now that we find that things may have been premature, too quickly adopted, and that this must now be tolerated in any way and accepted in order for this matter to be somewhat remedied. Of course, you are counting on people, now that we are just at the beginning of this term, to forget this in the years leading up to the next elections, and I personally hope that it will finally come to the attention of someone in this country, that it is nothing but to solve what has been missed in these years. Perhaps you'd like to point out the following. Well, we certainly don't want any more levelling machines. But we want those with full stomachs to begin to understand those who do not yet reach [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] No, I have a full one, so I'm going to propose in the next law that they take your regression. Nevertheless, this demagogism should still be put into reality in this national assembly, that is, into life and into the sphere for which all those of us who have full stomachs are so eager to take on, but we do not do anything essential for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u57	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. The saying says, silence is gold, talk is silver. However, such demagogism requires, of course, a certain answer. I also repeat to Mr Jerovšk, who said that a pension hole, as we call it, is now being saved. But when I performed here myself, Mr Jerovšek, read the audiograms when I said that the previous government could already internally redistribute funds, you did not vote for this, but you simply voted without us that the pension fund must be a pension fund, that is, a pension and disability insurance institution, yourself renting a loan, paying it back - of course to whose account, to the transfer account, which will be in the next annual budget, plus interest. Second. You are deceiving that the Democratic Party of pensioners of Slovenia is in favour of high-privileged pensions. That's rude. Forgive the expression. The point is that, thanks to our Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, the previous law has also reduced the ratio from 1:4.8 to 1:4; and this is gross, Mr. Rupar. Take a deep look at the information you have at your disposal. And finally, it's a topic for demagogy. We believe, in our parliamentary group and the Democratic Party of the pensioners of Slovenia, that it is the responsibility of all parliamentary parties that we are responsible for what kind of life the pensioners will have, and I agree with you that there is no pension and will not be a social category until we reach a state pension which will be equal for all on the basis of the pension. However, you too were at the proposal last year, when we discussed this law that came into force this year, you advocated a reduction of the ratio to 1:3 and a half or even to 3, but on the other hand you wanted the second pillar unlimited, because there is no social solidarity, because you were defending and then we achieved only that you advocate and we accepted your proposal for an extra pension in the ratio of 1:10. Where's your social note here? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u59	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u60	No, it's not a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u61	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u62	It's not a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u63	No, no, no. And then [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u64	Let's go in line. I just signed up. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u65	Now we limit the debate of Members who have not applied in writing to 5 minutes, and Mr Peterle is in front of you, and then you. Here you go. Mr. Run, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u66	Thank you very much. So, I am not sure whether it is worth discussing properly or not, given all that has been said by some colleagues in social democracy, but I would like only to ask for an explanation of the amendment they have tabled. I think everything you're saying is in great contrast to what you've written. If your proposal had been adopted as you wrote it, then the pension, which would have been less than 100,000 dollars after the adoption of the law, would not have been aligned at all with the movement of wages, but would have stood. They'd be frozen. Now, I don't know if--I'd say-- you're consciously saying one thing and you're proposing some other alligree for some misunderstanding, but the amendment is written this way. The previous paragraph, the right coordination, shall apply to pensions exceeding 100 000 tolls of net payments per month. For pensions less than 100,000, there is no coordination: neither January nor September. Ladies and gentlemen, please correct the amendment or say that you are speaking one thing, but you are proposing to the National Assembly something else to accept what you are not actually saying or speaking more because someone would hear you and write you, but in fact you would want what you are proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u67	Replica, Mr. Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I'll replicate it to Mr. Kebrich. Mr Kebrič, we will need to look at the amendments that we have tabled and which you have tabled and who supported someone in the law on pensions in the previous term. Just so we don't get drunk, God knows some mud. I'd like to make a suggestion. Thus, the Socialist Group of Members still demands the financial consequences of this law. We will also propose a break if we do not get this information immediately, so that you can also assess how much the actual pension will be lower so that we do not bluff, who and whom. Now I, Mr Potch, don't know how you read or probably read with your eyes and eyes. So, this applies to pensions of over 100,000 and up to 100,000 as it is. As it is. If you accept that, that's the way it is. You read the articles of this law in full, and you will see. But if you think it's ambiguous or unclear for anyone who can't explain it to himself that it's 100,000 the old way, and it's 100 the next time on your proposal, then we're going to expand it so that it's also understandable to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u69	Just an explanation, Mr. Rupar. Government representatives and others have the opportunity, after we have exhausted this part, to provide clarifications. So I don't see why you feel like you won't get an answer. Replica, Mr. Vizjak. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u70	I'd have a replica of Mr. Potsch. I am sorry that Mr Potsch so understands this proposal. If he's not comprehensible, we'll correct him. But I want to explain it. The purpose of the amendment is to re-coordinate only pensions that are net above 100,000 tolerants, but that the existing system of coordination applies to lower pensions. As far as this is not clear, we will correct the amendment and complete it.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u71	Replica, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u72	Well, look, I've pointed out the discrepancy between speaking and writing because the text has to be read as it is written, and otherwise it can't be read, and I can't read it with my eyes, because otherwise I don't know for now, and thank God I don't have to. Look. Article 1 tells us: paragraphs 2 and 3 shall be replaced by a new text. And as soon as we replace it with a new text, there is no more coordination to date. It is a new coordination, as proposed here. And you say that this new coordination, because the old one is gone, applies only to the payment of 100,000, and it really cannot be read any differently than I have read. But if you have thought otherwise, please correct it in such a way that it is clear what the goal is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u73	Mr. Vezjak repeats again. Vizjak, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u74	You'll get used to it. Thank you very much for the warning and we will correct the amendment in accordance with and make it clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u75	Thank you. Now we continue the debate. Five minutes, Mr. Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! I know that our memory can be very weak and obviously on the subject of the issue that we are currently dealing with, and so, even in this case, what the parties who today represent this type of pension reform have said very differently before the elections. They also knew the concept of real growth. Today it is spoken here by the proponents or supporters of this amendment of the law only in terms of nominal growth. You know that sometimes in the days of inflation Yugoslavia we were all millionaires and then we understood what was nominal and what was real. And I would like to hear the representative of DesSus explain this difference to the pensioners, because if you have not explained it to the companies, then you can get such support that is unique in the world; that is, you explain to the public and pensioners that there is a big hole in the pension box, that it has to be covered, but at the same time you say that you will do it so that you will not take anything away from anyone. So, I think it was possible for society to get because you were saying that, basically, everyone for this, you only got them in such a way that you didn't tell them the numbers. And I would probably not have responded to the debate in this way or would not have started if it had seemed to any of the candidates to say what some Members have already asked for: simple calculations or numbers. And if you tell on the basis of the starting points that you suggest to the pensioners, what it will look like there in the spring or in the summer of next year, I guarantee that there would be no support that is being manipulated today and criminalized by the opposition, who even hopes to think otherwise, and already shows up with his fingers: look at them that are not for it! So, ladies and gentlemen, of course we will not be in favour of such a reform, because you do not speak clearly and because you do not speak honestly. You're selling a cat to the pensioners in a frog and you're saying that the nominal will not change anything. Did you tell them what the first half of the year or the second half of the year would look like? I think we should say this exactly. You only used the terms "no freeze" - nice, okay - "no reduction", of course there will be no reduction! But you didn't say anything about growth and no lines, you didn't give any data. So I expect someone to risk telling you what it means in numbers. And I demand a clear word, if not, I will continue to say that you are offering a cat in a jacket and that you have rejuvened a nice number of Slovenian pensioners, no matter what kind of pension someone gets now. That way, we're not. Of course, it is very unusual that you could get a connection for this, but this is one of the Slovenian political oddities, such as that of a political party who says in the field that it is not at all, but it is just a housing organization, that is, it is trying to monopolize the pensioners, the political and cogenerational party, and today it refers to a reform that will undoubtedly not bring the pensioners what they expect or promise them. This is what I think needs to be made clear and that it is also necessary to say things in order to make a clear difference between those who are for these matters without taking into account the business provisions that the financial consequences must be clear. Well, this side for the cat in the frog won't be.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u77	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Mr Peterle, I am known - and when I was invited to the board of directors, just as Mr Dimovski was to explain the amendment to Article 150 of this Act, I spoke clearly, unequivocally and poured pure wine. Indeed, we cannot talk about pears and potatoes; when it comes to pears, if I give a comparison, we are talking about nominal ones - Mr Rupar, you know clearly, and if you have read this article of the law, you know exactly that nominal pensions cannot be reduced. Mr. Peterle, I agree with you. That's two things. The second concept is the reality, but not only the reality of pensions, but also the reality of wages. As much as real wages rise, pensions are also expected to grow realistically under this law. These are the facts. Let's not mix potatoes with apples or any other fruit. Second thing. Those who demand calculations today - I believe that something approximate can be given, but nothing can be given, because I don't know if anyone is a witch or a wizard, a genius or a phenomenon, to know how wages will move in the month of November and December, which will have a significant impact on the average. It should be known that if only in December wages rise - I speak for comparison - by 7% "against" November, this 7% will affect only 1/7 with regard to the law saying "from the last alignment". The last reconciliation of pensions was in July on the basis of the calculation of wage movements by May of the previous year of November. I think you're all so many experts and you've gone into this, at least if you're discussing it. Because it is difficult for us to agree if one or no one knows or does not want to know the substance of the matter, but I am always prepared - and other information can be obtained from the pension and disability insurance institution at any time as Members at your disposal, and you will get to know the essence of the problem and you will realize that the average of pensions will be something slowed down, given that this law or amendment of this article will enter into force in its essence only in 2000; we have managed to make this break too difficult for 2001 to take a transitional period under a special regime, which already takes into account, at least in part, this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u79	Replica, Mr. Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u80	Dear Mr Kebrič, I am very pleased to be able to argue with you and to respect your efforts to help solve this very difficult problem, but I am always sorry when you step back into the mist. And now you've done it again. You're saying that you can't exactly calculate, you can certainly do a simulation, taught to do a calculation, let's say. Unless I say so, I will first ask: Mr Kebrič, whether Mr Minister, or Mr Pucko, do you think that this year's pension under this law could be calculated for the second year, if we take this law into account from the beginning of the year? Give me this, please, to calculate, I don't think it's hard if I don't come with these numbers. I think that can be calculated. And you know, pensioners, I have a lot of them among my constituents too, they don't understand: average, nominal, slow down, they're interested in the envelope at the end of the month, but at the beginning of the month, and they want to know how much it's going to be inside, not: whether the envelope will be slowed, or whether it will be brown, or whether it will be an average envelope. Tell them the numbers, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u81	Mr. Peterle, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Dimovski, I'd like to explain these dilemmas to you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. If you allow me, in some way I would answer the questions that have been raised in this debate and because some questions have started to arise, to repeat, let me try to answer most of these questions. Now, first of all, I'd say the following. Regardless of the probably different interpretations that have emerged here, we see the meaning of the applicants of this amendment, this amendment, of this 150th Article, in particular in the basic principle of harmonised wage and pension movements. I think that the intent of the law is in this direction and that in some way the amendment of this article of this law goes in this direction. Secondly, what I would like to say is that, in a way, on the committee, we have already discussed additional issues on the parental committee, we could say, the additions to the law on pension and disability insurance. The Committee also adopted the conclusion that by March the government will have a comprehensive review of the implementation of this law and propose appropriate amendments, and we are committed in some way. Now, as far as the rest of things are concerned, I would say, based on the fundamental principle of wage and pension coordination, we will be in this second part, this is the real coordinated growth of wages, we will also talk at the next point, where we will try to show how wages should be coordinated in the future, of course, once again with a certain transition to a new system, where, in fact, we are gradually moving from coordination back to coordination. Now, as far as these things that have been pointed out here are concerned, I will try to answer practically all these questions that have been raised here. If I do not answer all the questions, please ask me again and together with the colleagues, including the representative of the PIC, we will try to dispel all the doubts surrounding this law. The biggest discussion was about the consequences, the financial consequences, as I understood. Now, this issue has already been raised on the Committee. We, as well as the committee, had a number, according to certain assumptions. However, I would like to point out something, given that there are some expected movements, that virtually all the numbers I am going to give here are, in some way, conditional because they expect, as Ambassador Kebric has already said, to be met. So I would ask that we take all these things here, which I will just say, in a way, in a framework, especially on the basis of these assumptions, which I will also state. So that practically everyone can sort of verify these calculations that were made as a simulation, what's actually going to happen, because it's clear that every law kind of needs some sort of simulation. Of course, we came from certain certain assumptions. Now, the first assumptions, some of which may have some financial implications, are mainly about wage movements. I would like to say here that in the simulations carried out at the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis as a government office, we were based on wage assumptions: for October about 102.2, for November 104.2 and for December somewhere between 108, 108.5. This settles, on certain certain assumptions, which constitute extrapolation from the previous year, this is said in 1999 which in some ways is expected to apply even in 2000. This is mainly a noticeable trend, which is present in the Slovenian economy, that most of the payments were made in the private sector in November and, above all, in December. Here is this number in recent years is practically variable because it is a large number of Christmas and New Year's payments, and whatever we call certain awards, which are at the end of the year, which are necessarily then changing the annual rate of wage growth. In such a case, we can then say that after this proposal of the 150th member law, under such assumptions - I say, of course, that this is in some way indicative - the pensions in February will rise by about - again I say - index 106, that is 6%, which is in some ways - because I say - again the framework number. It can, and here is also difficult to determine what we say about statistics, some degree of trust; what is the plus or minus, depending again on the growth movement in December. I personally believe that, in December, wages are likely to be higher, so it is said that they can virtually expect over these 108 indexes and 8%, so that we can expect this number to change in February at the time of harmonisation. Now look. When we talk about financial effects, we should then talk about the difference that arises when we adopt the new system and the numbers that are in some way consummated, if I may say so, under the applicable law. And here's essentially the difference that we've also asked, which we've asked in some way in the institution for pension and disability insurance, to further test and in fact there's a difference in expenditure; in the expenditure from the pension fund, which for 2001 is total, cumulatively, roughly again, somewhere 20, 21 billion. Of this, roughly according to the expenditure of the pension fund, which is SIT 614 billion, represents this figure, you could say about 3% of the pension fund's expenditure. I am just speaking with the numbers that were available to me and that were somehow calculated in two: this is the first time in the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia and certain simulations that were made by the Office of Macroeconomic Analysis. That's two, I could say, state offices or institutions that are somehow in charge of each of these parts. So the purpose was in no way to prevent these things from being done or seen. In fact, what was the greatest fear was, of course, that these numbers would be absolute. In view of what I have said, however, the power from what I have said is to understand that there are some other projections for November and December. Let me also say that, after this simulation in 2001, the pensions of September would then be coordinated on the basis of salary growth or wage and pension ratios, or until July, as previously said, mainly due to the statistical system, where wage monitoring can only be determined by a two-month delay. Now I would not go into the details, but of course I can also report them, but I think I have tried to expose what was possible, which is on the basis of some assumptions it is possible to present, and, once again, I have presented a framework of this. Of course, we think it's actually this - let's say it's this difference that's created - i. The financial impact was mainly due to the fact that in some way growth could decrease immediately at the beginning, it is said that this change in the coordination system represents a higher degree of coordination between salaries and pensions. In the former law, this difference between salaries and pensions is greater, the current one is smaller, and financial effects are therefore identified. In no case can we talk about reducing the level of pensions. I said earlier that, after this change, they grow on average in February 6%, and in October, according to these assumptions, for some additional percentage. This is now what I think the maximum of this data that we have given can be done further, but we see what this coordination is about. The next question raised with regard to selectivity, justice and the like. Here I would say that in some ways it is probably necessary to take into account not the system of coordination, but probably more into account the 49th section of the law, which speaks of the relationship between the lower and the upper salaries, that is 1 to 4. And I note - also the representatives of pension and disability insurance have warned me - that, in fact, these highest pensions have been standing, more specifically since the beginning of 2000, and will stand for as long as this relationship with the law presented in its 49th Article is not consumed. It is said that in a way what was discussed about selectivity, equivalence and so on, Article 2 is taken into account, this Article 49 is said to be, and in this sense the pension system should probably be seen as a whole. As far as the following questions are concerned. I think that Mr Drobnic immediately raised the issue of wage and pension growth in the beginning. See, also in the interviews on this subject, among the applicants the view was likely that there was a need for a certain security guard in the event of wage increases that were higher than pension increases. This is said to enable practical coordination during the year. However, with the new system presented in Article 150, paragraph 2, other harmonisations are possible if an agreement on wage policy or other agreements defining wage policy allows for such coordination. Thus, if we read practically the whole article 150, the fundamental principle that the applicant is likely to pursue is, as far as possible, within these limits, both the statistical system and the other restrictions that exist, to enable maximum coordinated wage and pension movements. Now, that's around the fuse. Now, as far as the rest of the matter is concerned, it is likely that several answers have already been given in the debates themselves. So I hope that at least these things would not be too long, these things, I would say, could be explained by simply defining some of the frameworks that were set here, or some interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Dimovski. We'd like to adjourn the session now. Or maybe these two other replicas, you still insist? We've got two more replicas open. And then after lunch, at 2.30 p.m., we'll continue the session, and then we'll have two more replicas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u84	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the afternoon part of our meeting. We'd like to see our presence first. Can I have your attention, please? We're picking up the presence! There are 46 Members, plus one, two, Mr Anderlich and Mr Delak. Excuse me. In the morning part of the session we ended up in replicas, so we are obliged to provide replicas to three more colleagues, Mr Petan, Mr Rupar, Mr Peterlet. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u85	Thank you. Too bad that there was a break between us, we would be more in the event, but nothing about it, maybe it's good for the new rules of procedure, where it's supposed to be at the end, when we usually forget, but that's how it came about. So, I wanted to replicate Mr. Kebrich. In fact, I agree with him when he said that apples and pears are not good to mix, of course it was a parable, that's how I understood it. But despite this; whether it is real or nominal, the fact is that the pensioner is not really interested in whether it is nominal or real, he is only interested in how much real pension he has and how real money he can spend is somehow his real life, not how nominal it could be. But I'd still take this opportunity not to come forward later. We've also heard from the minister, and I'm glad this stimulation will be [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u86	I'm asking for your attention in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u87	simulation of this model has been done, but it is a shame that it will only be March; because - as far as I know - the first coordination would have been before that. [[...]] I mean, that's how we were informed. Now I hope that's true. But something else. Look. We'll take the marriage quickly, now. However, a simulation of the effect will only be done in March or well, it does not matter whether it is March or the end of February or whatever. The fact is something else. It's like jumping into water through a fog and not knowing what's underneath, and we're just gonna see what happens, whether it's water or we're gonna fly into water, or maybe concrete, or anything else. And if this is true that the first coordination will be in February already - which I hope will be later - then I think it's similar to if we push the entire population somehow, jump into the water, then we'll see where they'll fly, and we'll only teach them in March where they've fallen, either into the water or onto concrete. In case someone didn't notice where he fell. This seems a little unrealistic to me, and so far, at least it has been common for the applicant or the one who supports this law - because in this case the government only supports this law - is not a proponent - to prepare an explanation of what the effects are. We heard something small, but the stimulation won't be until later. That's a little unserious. I would also say that, although the government is not a proposalr in this case, it supports this law. This is such an important law that I think such a law should in any case be proposed by the government. I have no objection to this Member that no one would think, or to the group of Members who propose it; that is not. However, the issue seems so important to me that this should be a government unless we know what the effect will be, and we are also aware of this effect, does not hope that the obvious will then fly on it. That's something else, of course. And that's worrying, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mr Rupar is absent, so I give the floor to Mr Peterlet, who wanted a replica, and I really politely ask for a little more peace in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u89	Thank you very much for the word and to ensure the conditions that I can - I feel telephone again in the cell. [[...]] I can't talk and I won't talk until the Members make a phone call. And I'm reporting for the replica when this conversation is over.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u90	I really ask so much respect for my colleagues, when they speak, that we owe it to please, truly fellow Members and fellow Members, for a little more patience and attention to our colleagues. [[...]] Here you go, Mr. Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Look, a few Members had to come forward so that we heard some numbers for the first time. On the board, the minister with the numbers didn't perform. I'm sure the simulations were done. I also understand why there is no talk about the results of these simulations. Why were they not presented to the most concerned? However, I am glad that we have heard at least some numbers, although I think it would be most fair that those who have prepared this reform or this change of law to put themselves in the skin of the pensioners - this would be the fairest and fairest - and look at what this means. Also so far, the Minister has first said that pensions will be aligned with wage growth; they have also been aligned with something so far, but it has not been clarified exactly what the difference is. And I think it would be very easy to answer matters to everyone, in every catchy language. And I ask the minister: Would this year pensioners receive more pensions under the old law or under the new law? And if a minister or any of the candidates were a pensioner, what would be the system of retirement? That's my clear question. By the old law or by the new?
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u92	We owe it to Mr Sok to allow for a debate from the previous work, five minutes more. Mr. Sok, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u93	Thank you, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen! It's turning into a beekeeper here. Really, I can't talk here on my own because they keep bothering me back here.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u94	I'm asking again if I can [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u95	Mr. Jakič, if you would warn me to stop.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u96	Really, please, we've grown up a lot to pay attention to our coworkers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u97	Dear colleagues and colleagues! So, I've listened to all the previous conversations, or everyone you've discussed, and I haven't bothered anyone. So I would really ask myself to be patient with each other and listen. Perhaps we could understand each other more easily as long as we listen to each other. Look. I would like to say that Members of New Slovenia are still aware of the deficits in the pension register. After all, the government of Dr. Andre Bajuk was the first government to raise this issue of principle and say what a deficit it is. So the difference is how to cover this deficit, how to handle it. I am convinced that, in such a way as to correct the law that is being adopted today, it is not possible to do so with one article, but that it would be worthwhile to devote much more debate to this issue, so that perhaps such important matters as the law on pensions are not adopted in a swift manner as this is happening here. I liked Mr Tsukjati's debate, which warned that a new look should be taken at the adoption of the pension law and that it might be possible to consider whether the relations in this law were correct, or whether it would not be necessary to consider that, in fact, the pension fund, said this deficit, would somehow be reduced by the fact that these relations, which now govern, would somehow draw closer. Look, on the one hand, we have very low pensions, such as pensions of farmers who are extremely low, and on the other hand we also have quite high pensions. So, only with such a system - I'm sure - could we actually talk about some long-term and comprehensive rehabilitation of our pension fund. Here today, it is proposed that we adopt an article of the law that is supposed to coordinate pensions on the basis of an agreement that is not yet in place. So, I'm asking the minister, what if this deal doesn't happen by September? Or, if the amendment of the law is not adopted today, the basis for the agreement to be reached as soon as possible is that there will be some additional pressure on the partners to reach an agreement on wage policy in this matter. At least from the DeSUS Members, I would expect them to respond to this question and seriously and responsibly, because their pre-election programme was actually entirely based on pensions. I am aware, however, that Mr Kebric is in a difficult position here; he is part of the government and must then justify what was somehow written in their programme, as they say today. He acknowledged here that there were unpopular measures to support their presence, and he also said that the pensioners would somehow understand this. I must tell him that he certainly does not represent all pensioners, but represents them just as many as all the other parties, he can represent the larger client of DeSUS, not the pensioners, as he has expressed himself. He also said that the pension will not be reduced nominally. I ask what would be crazy if in the system of relatively high inflation, which we still have in this country, pensions were also nominally reduced. Therefore, it is certainly necessary to make it clear that the adoption of this law will reduce pensions, for if they do not decrease, it is of course pointless that we also adopt this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u98	Thank you. Mr Stanislav Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u99	Thank you very much. A very brief replica to the speaker, who claimed that the government, the last government led by Dr. Bayuk, was aware of the reality of the public financial situation. She was aware, but only in the title of the Finance Minister, Mr Zvonk Ivanušić, but not in the title of the Prime Minister, Dr Bajuk, who was also a member of the NSI during the presidency of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u100	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Miran Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u101	Thank you very much. In my replica, I would like to draw attention only to the contradictions in the debate of gentlemen of the Socialist Party and the New Slovenia. See, on the one hand, you claim that so far there has been no real reform, you claim that there has been much too little done to cover the pension hole, you claim that there is a substantial burden that the budget has to pay in order to provide for pension funds and the like, and these are on one side of your claim. On the other hand, you say that it is impossible to go into any current changes because we do not want to say or acknowledge that the current changes provide a slightly smaller obligation than the budget would otherwise have to cover the necessary funds in the pension register; and that if we do so, it is unacceptable. On the third page, you say, we are just about to raise only pensions to 100,000 tolars, over 100,000, you say, pensions are not allowed or will not increase, and in this part you have nothing to worry about that envelope, brown, gray, white as Mr. Peterle said, but significantly lower than it would have been if such a change had not been accepted and what else could be discussed. I'd say I understand the meaning of your debate. You want to show the pensioners that you'd do something different. Okay. Okay, but then please take some red thread and talk according to this red thread. Don't be in contradiction with yourself, what you do with every debate, and it just means that you haven't prepared yourself any more than you think you need to talk a lot to make an impression that you would be more kind to the pensioners. Maybe, I know it's easier to talk when you're in the opposition because I've been myself, and I'm not saying that I've never said anything stupid or demagogic, but we've been trying to make at least some consistency in the performance. And the last thing I'm gonna say is this. Listen up! The aim of the bill's proposal in the system's regulation - I said this on the parent's working body - is to reduce or eliminate the imbalance between wage and pension movements as much as possible, because the current system was linked to the alignment of pensions with former salaries with past wages. And if this was a disproportionate of a few percent, there was a constant question of why this year should now increase pensions, let's say, by only 5% if last year's wages grew by 10%, because it was required, there should also go pensions by 10% up. Since wages were only 5% in the same year, the employees said: Why? Look, pensions go up 5% faster than wages go up, and the reverse is. I only took one piece so I wouldn't talk too long. In order to reduce this imbalance, we said that coordination should run across the belt, as well as wages, the same pension. Since we have no illusions that an agreement on wage policy would settle everything in detail, because there is some principled agreement, but some are concrete then agreements concluded by partners in individual trade unions, and on this basis may also occur between the year and the year of different growth as envisaged in the general agreement, we said: a September security guard who could possibly offset the gap between salary growth in that year and pensions by September. And if that's not right, then I'd ask you nicely to say it's not right, and I say it is. The problem, I admit, arises when you want from the old to the new system. And there is a problem in this part, because if you want everything back and anticipated inflation to go forward, then this is a imbalance that the state budget cannot bear, and in this part is an attempt to agree on a solution that saves something, but still represents a nominal increase in pensions even from 1.1.2000. Whether she has passed the right or not, this can be discussed. Just please don't go to a debate that doesn't want to understand what the whole point of this reform is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Valentin Pohorec has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u103	Thank you for your word. I will try to be very brief, but I would like to say some of my thoughts on the debate that was held. I know that the former government also intended to cut into the reform of the pension system because it had announced this, especially Minister Miha Brejc. I remembered that at a time when I hadn't even thought about running for office so I could be here today. So I would ask the gentlemen who were in this government, but they are here today, whether they would therefore suggest an increase in pensions, knowing that there is such a hole and such a hole in the state budget, if I say so, in the pension register. Almost not. Today, of course, with their questions, they are proving in their debate how they would be most social to pensioners, and we, the coalition, including DeSUS, are now taking something away from the pensioner. Please, let's stop talking about lowering pensions or taking something, what someone has today, if there is only a slightly different coordination in the system of the following increases in pensions. If I'm wrong, prove me wrong. We don't break any pre-election promises. Me, at least not. What I have promised somewhere is that I will stand up for the best conditions of life - including pensioners, and not just them - I hold and fulfill. Today, too, when I vote for a much nicer version of future pension coordination than I could have been. This, I don't think you can deny me. Those who would like to make a balance sheet would ask them how often do you refer to a former system that was more difficult for a balance sheet. And today we'd be doing it. I don't think you could do that, either. At the same time, you told individuals that a pension is a derived right from work in recent years, but now you would take it away from someone to add to another. Is this not then a removal from the work of the rights acquired? I think it's an intervention in those rights, not some social category, as you like to call it. Thank you for your concern about how DeSUS will defend in front of its constituents what we are likely to accept today. We Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners are simply officially called that, by not imagining that we are truly representatives of all pensioners of Slovenia, we will properly tell our voters, explain ourselves, and I am sure they will understand that too. However, we do not consider ourselves responsible to all pensioners of Slovenia, because these people have elected exactly all the parties that are here today. Perhaps even the young, if not the others, or the father or mother of the candidates has rounded up the candidate's 'for'. We feel more responsible to those 5% of the voters who have elected us, even all others, as members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for a shared responsibility to all the issues that are currently on the table in this country and need to be addressed. So I would suggest that you don't look only at us, although - I'm sure - most of the pensioners, including most of those who have elected other parties, will look more at us, so now we should have 4 against the other 86 to defend anything they might lose. Someone said that the Association of Retired Persons of Slovenia is not the real representative of this organization. If he knows the law about societies, their relationships, then this relationship that was present at this information meeting is probably the body that represents this organization and no one else. That pensioners’ societies or pensioners themselves will sometimes feel that it is necessary to make a change in the workforce and that they will do so. Let's not fool the public because it's not about lowering pensions, it's just about different coordination. And I'm sure the government isn't just hitting on the pensioners' backs, but it's the duty of the current state to just fix it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Drobnič also applied to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u105	Can I?
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u106	Mr Janez Drobnič, then Mr Lois Peterle, Rudolf Petan, then it's your turn. Here you go, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u107	Thank you for your word. It took us a long time to come up with information about the consequences of marriage. This means that the debate was still necessary in order to pour pure wine to the public. In my previous presentation, I mentioned that the press, the media, are publishing diametric data or finding out what the amendment of this law means. So this debate was still necessary. We got information about the consequences if we had an old arrangement and what if we had a new one. The Minister mentioned a simulation that is, of course, at a certain risk. I totally understand him here. But if you want to go with a new marriage and some changes and instruments, you need to know what you're gonna do in the system. Of course, I have some other questions: What is expected with the pension allowance? What's the deficit? How much will it contribute, say, to this saving, to reducing the budget deficit of the pension fund? Maybe he won't be here at all? We don't really know anything about that. One, of course, is the provision of current pension payments and the other is the situation in the cash register, in the long term. The fact that our craftsmen will have not only our craftsmen, but directly the present generation, which will enter into this period, when they will be able to survive with what they have invested in being a reliable source. That's it. Marriage needs to know what it is. It's not some law about hunting, I don't know, about hunting wild animals, it's a serious law that has consistency. In between were statements - I mention the statements of Ambassador Orzmova - "the law is austerity", "not frozen", I mean, such statements are received; but once "not frozen" is "freezing" and "nothing is taken" - you know, if we are talking about the professional government or the people who are preparing, then they should express themselves explicitly, where they need to be expressed explicitly; where simulations are supposed to be about assumptions, but should be supported by numbers. [[...]] Now, the question is, how is it with the pension and disability insurance? This is not only affected by outflows, so what needs to be paid by marriage, pension benefits, but also by what comes in, how it comes in. It is not just the contributions of employers and workers who provide payments. As we know, it is the duty of the State to provide certain funds, in particular because certain commitments have been made that are not directly linked to the insurance system itself. Therefore, it is also necessary to collect taxes for the budget so that you can then provide the necessary resources from the budget. Clearly, this was not the case in the previous government - in order to collect taxes - so there was no clear decision to treat everything equally. You will say, but this has nothing to do with the pension register directly - because it has problems with the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and, indirectly, with the pension register. The next thing we've warned about, because we're concerned, is the ratio of pension benefits - this system doesn't solve, but of course, there are existential issues. This is what I wanted to replicate, to complement the speakers in front of me who somehow stated that this debate was just a delay and a blur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Lois Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a debate on how the bears in Kočevska will live in the future, how many will be fired, but how will most Slovenians live, because most are and will be retired. I repeat to Mr. Potsch, who says the opposition would obviously do this differently. Of course I would. She's already said something. We also deal with the structure of pensions, and you know who has seen these matters a little bit, that we have terrible differences in the structure of old pensions and in our opinion also unfair differences. Farmers' pensions amount to about 30,000 tolars. And let's ask ourselves, it's not really demagogic, how it's done, and this layer hasn't contributed so little to the development of this country. If I go to pensions that are measured from the lowest pension base, they're about 65,000 tolars. And the guaranteed fighting pensions are about 100,000 tolars. I think it is also necessary to deal with the structure of these pensions and also the question of how, of course, in undemocratic times, things happened and how he knew the leading class in each round, first when it came to children's documents, when this generation went into adulthood, the system of children's documents almost fell apart, in each round they took care of themselves. Those who have been oppressed, however, are still at the bottom of the scale and remain there after this change. This needs to be made clear. The opposition, of course, sees these things differently and sees them more correctly. He does not want to support the privileges of drifting back to the new millennium. Then he says, Mr. Potch, "we're slowly getting to the right words." After him, the next speaker also said something about the burdens and the recovery. Let us pay attention to these words. I'd like to find out again, I don't know now, maybe Mr. Potch knows, he says "something to save". I'd like to know how much you saved, because you couldn't think of working, you have some numbers. Tell me how much you're going to save or what you're going to do with it, and say at the same time, "something is saved and it's nominally increased". Again, we have not heard what this means in real time. Once and for all, it's still fog. So, I'm asking for information on how much will be saved. I am still asking for this answer, perhaps Mr Potts, whether he would choose a new or an old system if he were a pensioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u110	Thank you. Mr. Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u111	Thank you for your word. So, I'm going to use this time for one replica, and I'm going to replicate two, Mr. Potsch and Mr. Pohortz. Yeah, I'll be rational. Mr Potts, it is somehow obvious to us that we do not want to face reality and that we may want to please the pensioners. At the same time, it categorically states that this system of coordination, which is now in force, is weak. I would ask him if this was when this system of coordination, which is now in force, was adopted and proposed. It seems to me that the applicants are about the same, the system that is now in force and the one that we have before us today. That is to say, if the system is weak, the applicant was wrong at the time. But who must now assure us that, so to speak to the same motioner, once again, we now believe him, who is now so categorically claiming that the proposal he has so suggested is bad. We cannot believe that the new system is the right one. Especially since this system of coordination, as far as I know, is not even valid for that long. That's the thing. And, of course, to Mr Pohorc, who wonders what we would suggest and speculate on what we would suggest. So let's just leave it at that. We'll see when this comes to order and we'll show you what we're going to propose. And when he warns us not to say that the pensioners are being taken, I would say that they are not to be taken. This is also one of the views. You're saying you're not up for an equalizer. Of course, we're not either. There's just another question. The question is the lowest pension. That's the question. And the second thing about this is whether this lowest pension is to, I'll say, live real life in the real world. That's also a question. And after all. Not taking it is not true. Taken. The funds go down and it doesn't really matter what it's called in reality, whether it's taken or reduced or otherwise coordinated. All that matters is how much is that real pension that comes in an envelope or a gypsy account. That's essential. But as it's called, it doesn't matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u112	Thank you. And a replica, Mr. Franz onion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Well, you didn't notice me before, so I called right away to replicate Mr. Potsch. Look, Mr. Potch. I would go somewhere real to your thinking about the opposition, which today has given its opinion. In view of the fact that after a bad year, you also find that this law, which we passed in the previous term, is bad. And one of the proponents of this law was you, Mr. Potsch, and also your client. In view of the fact that only two months after the elections, when they in some way launched themselves into the public opinion that the so-called Bajuk government coalition was supposed to take our citizens' pensions, it is, of course, with the help of DeSUS, it is entirely understandable that in some way it is necessary for the opposition today to tell the citizens of Slovenia, the pensioners, that this is not what was then put into the public eye, but that today, at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly between the first laws, we are facing a matter that you have advocated the world as a white book a year ago. Like this white book that I personally assessed at the time, that it was a black book and that it was a black book. So for the pensioners and also for the cash fund, so to speak. I mean, this is my real assessment or review of all of today's replicas and also of course the opinion of the position itself. And so, Mr. Potts, in a way, you have to understand that, and now it's another thing. I think that this change in the law alone reduces not only the reduction of pensions, but also the reduction of purchasing power, which means the reduction of purchasing power, the lower income of taxes and thus probably not the growth of the economy itself, because "summa sumarum" is once again a question, in fact, how much will we save in the state pension treasury to actually replace what you want today with this change of law. And one more opinion. Earlier, the lady, your Member, Mrs Simčič, said that the pensioners were ready to halve their pensions. Ask them, those who have 50,000, maybe those who have 200,000. I don't know if, on behalf of all the pensioners in the parliamentary group, anyone can give an opinion that pensioners are actually willing to halve what they actually deserve and what they actually have paid into the so-called pension fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u114	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Miran Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Onbulj, I think I understand your debate personally and your colleagues very well. That's why I told you how I understand it. I see it as contradictory and I understand it as a desire on the segments to show that everything is wrong and worthless. And I understand that. But I guess it's only right for me to tell you how I got it. As far as the objectives that we pursued with this law are concerned. Today we have three related laws on our agenda: one was a law on financial transactions; the other was a law amending the pension law; the third was a law amending the law on guaranteed wages and determining the minimum wage or the lowest wage and the harmonisation of wages. Now, why is this happening? It comes to the realization that the real state treasury would be completely difficult to carry forward the planned expenditure. Whether it is right or wrong to learn it is a matter for discussion. We think it's a good idea. And in this direction, Mr Peterle, Mr Peterle, has also provided very specific information. Whether you're happy with them or not, I don't know whether to repeat them, I don't know, but he did give specific numbers that talk about it. The data, however, are from the Zpiz, what would be the obligation under article 150 without changes and what would be the planned obligation to Zpiz with amendments to article 150 under certain assumptions for wage movements in November and December, which no one can say on a fixed basis today, but can only be accounted for, say, for the assumption that growth would be the same as it was in 1999, on which the assumptions were made. You can say that you don't agree that it's too little, just please don't talk, there's no data. They were, you just didn't want to hear them and accept them as real. You're telling us we're making a proposal on one piece. It is true, only on a fraction, but by a rapid procedure and due to needs there is no need today and no possibility of doing the whole reform of us. And we do not think that any overall reform of the pension system is necessary at this time, but that some of the most urgent corrections are necessary. With regard to our relationship to the adoption of law, Mr Onbulj, we have been very actively involved in the adoption of law in all three stages. Some of our proposals have been taken into account, many have not been taken into account. We have commented on the system of coordination and we have warned that if the system of coordination does not go roughly the way it is today, there will be constant differences, because no one will be able to know in advance what is going to happen, and this is partly confirmed. But we were for marriage, for sure, and with full responsibility, because it was a common assessment if we did not gradually go into a certain reform, it would be harder to go into reform every next year because the pension deficit would be so much higher. But we are aware of full responsibility, like the opposition, which we were six months ago or three months ago, and that today we need to look for a system in which the normal payment of pensions to pensioners will be ensured without anyone threatening them, because the system will collapse, which we have always disputed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u116	Thank you. The replicas were in the order of order: Mr Franc Čebulj, Mr Jožef Jerovšek and Mr Lojze Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Look, Mr Potts, I would like to take this matter into account in your discussion that we are now dealing with a partial matter. See, I mentioned that a reduction in purchasing power also means a lower inflow of funds to the state treasury, not to the pension fund, to the state treasury, is said to be to the state budget. I would understand that if we also proposed to reduce the contribution rate of those who contribute to the so-called pension fund, which would in some way retain purchasing power and, of course, also the flow of certain money, the taxes that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or the state budget, eventually also has. Finally, these funds are now flowing, spilling, and spilling. What does this mean? Other burdens on pensioners who do not reach, say, those pension rates that are in the home of the elderly, various supplements and so on. If this is likely the government, whether it has or will have to do to finally clarify here what it means and how much it is, in fact, on the basis of a lower income to the state budget and to the fund itself - what this "summa summarum" means, is it really that much savings on the basis of smaller expenditure on pensions or is it just a partial solution to specifically save the pension fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u118	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Potts, you can say so well as to think through and through only the best of solutions. But you say the state treasury would be hard to bear these expenses. I guess we're in agreement. But why weren't you in this coalition that was formed before summer, you were practically so strong that you would tell the people who had retired. Let's say there was a rally in Velenj, 20,000 retired. President Kučan, Rob, former Minister, Mr Vinko Gobzek, was sitting there in the first place, saying that you were electing this party DeSUS, because only in this case will there be no change of law. Yes, was it not possible to be principled and honest at the time? But that's when they told you your totally different. I mean, it's very strange that now you speak so beautifully as if everything was clear. Then why didn't you tell people the truth? Why didn't you tell people the truth then? It doesn't make sense to convince us here now, as if we had to do something different. We did the same thing, we said, and that's why we didn't succeed in the elections because we were honest. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u120	Mr. Lois Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I'm replicating Mr. Potsch. He says that the data is, he even says that I've given them a fair statement, which is true. Look. We certainly agree with the Member on this, but we do not agree on the policy and we do not agree on the way in which those who are now and who have previously ruled are. Look. For the fourth time, he's the same Prime Minister. When he was here before us, recently, he said, "Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is serious." Who ruled for eight years that we now have a serious situation? Now you come with this as a revelation that there's a hole here and that there's going to be something that needs to be done if not, we're going to be the side of the bell because it's going to go to places. Now you call us to seriousness, to us with 22 votes, to sobriety and to recovery. We were already when the white book became the first fact, we were alerted to things, and you knew where these things were going, but you didn't make any moves, you were demagogued in the direction you were, and you also know how the white book ended, what the first version was, and what the last one was. In 1995, I remember, in this house, it was already agreed to go into some kind of pension reform, and then it happened just before the elections, some cosmetics, nothing. Now you've come to the realization that something will have to be done. Now tell people honestly what you will do, how much you will save, what will be the real growth, not this fog with nominees and with averages and coordination, etc. And there's one more thing. Look. Now you're talking not backwards, but forwards. By going to the Institute of Expected Movements, you open the way for further manipulation and for even greater politicization. Now, of course, the government with its institutions will determine the expected movements and set down three years before the elections, and then October or November will come, and the expected movements will rise and they will go up and you will sit down again and people will "fuck". Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u122	Thank you. Mr. Franz Puksich, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I will continue here where my colleague, Lois Peterle, has finished - but this time, of course, I repeat to Mr Potrč - but this time I think that Mr Loize Peterle has made a real mistake, because with this day and with the start of this way of solving the pension allowance is actually, in other words, the beginning of the end of pensions. You heard right. And at the beginning of the end of pensions, how long will they succeed, but of course they will not succeed in finally being able to correct this in return with such an administrative intervention, which is what they are actually doing. Look. In the coalition, respected colleagues and colleagues, we could do something like - the resolution of pension legislation by rapid procedure is of course nonsense, in the first place - but we could do it because I believe this law on civil servants, where there is also a pyramid of wage policy - we know how this is now dismantled there - so in this law on civil servants, things could be substantially different and put in order, but not actually start in that order of people who have the least chance of resisting it, and it is wrong. Another time. Look at the coalition colleagues, we could make changes to the legislation that talks about working hours, and we also have more and more. And what you're saying today is that this is how you're going to save your pension fund. Please be aware that those pensioners who have the lowest pensions, pensioners who have farmers' pensions and even more, pensioners who have farmers' pensions do not receive any protective allowance. So in no way will they be able to survive. And what you're doing is extremely cynical and rude to this structure, to this population, to this structure of pensioners. I don't know why it always has to break down at the beginning and start breaking into the most socially vulnerable, in the population, that is, the rural population and, of course, those who are from demographically endangered areas. Yeah, well, apparently, you're the ones who are the most bent and the least opposed. Of course, everyone else would probably raise their voices sooner. I agree when Mr Potč said that it is necessary to have pension legislation in such a way that it will be ensured that pensions are paid on a regular basis. Yes, but dear colleagues, such payment of pensions, including those of the lowest, will be for some survival. For some survival, as much as a normal survival. You know, if you have 25 or 26, or I don't know, 28 thousand, 30,000 dollars of farm pension, you start saving it wrong. It would be good if we started to save as I said, or if we would, of course, collect those benefits that Mrs Romana Logarev and the rest of the Ministry of Finance and the governments have even warned and shown. Billions are lying there, all you have to do is pick them up. But to pick up from those who have a lot, that's obviously too heavy a nut for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u124	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 19.12.2000 and the amendment of Mr Visionak has also come to the table. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the first amendment to this Article. And the amendment to Article 1, namely the amendment of Mr Visionak. Who wants a word? It's an amendment to the Mag. Andrej Visiak, who you have now received on the table, namely the amendment which was the second, the amendment to add new paragraphs to the fifth paragraph, which read the First Amendment table was withdrawn, and this you have now received on the table. [[....]] Don't you? Can you please take a look at the other colleagues, have two copies on the table? [[...]] [[They don't.]] You don't. Excuse me. Let me read the amendment. Mag. Andrej Vizjak proposes an amendment to Article 1 in the following text: "The following paragraphs shall be inserted after the fifth paragraph: 'For pensions less than 100 thousand dollars net, the adjustment shall be made on the basis of the increase in average salaries from the month from which the salaries were taken into account in the previous reconciliation of pensions. The pensions referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be coordinated within the same time limits and as they apply to the coordination of the salaries of employees subject to collective agreements, special law or agreement between the social partners'. The following paragraphs shall be renumbered accordingly." Explanation: "The amendment of the law will also be coordinated with pensions, which are already very low. Therefore, we propose that the new reconciliation of pensions only apply to pensions paid over 100,000 tolls per month and that the previous scheme remain for pensions up to 100,000 tolls per month." Anybody want a word? Mr. Rupar wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u125	Thank you very much. In view of the comments or due to a better understanding, we withdrew that first amendment and have now perhaps given a slightly clearer form to the procedure. In this way, I think it is already stated in the explanatory statement that at least at the rate of monthly inflation, we would want to coordinate or coordinate lower pensions more frequently. This makes it possible to at least follow lower wages and, of course, we also provide slightly better living conditions for pensioners who receive less than 100 tolars per month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u126	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Because you don't want to, we're closing the debate and we're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote first the amendment of the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, which you have in your review of the amendments tabled. There are 64 Members and Members present. Who is behind the amendment of the proposer, the Health Committee, the work, the family, social policy and the disabled? [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the amendment of the Committee to Article 1 has been adopted. I am putting to the vote the amendment to Article 1, namely, the proposaler mag. Andrej Vizjak, in the text I presented earlier. 61 Members and Members are present. Who is the second amendment to Article 1 of the Magi proposal? Andrea Vissiak? [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 48.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. I shall put to the vote Article 1 in full. There are 68 Members and Members present. Who's in favor of Article 1 as a whole? [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that Article 1 has been fully adopted. I am putting to the debate the amendment you have in the review of the amendments tabled, namely the amendment for Article 1a; the proposaler is the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons. The amendment government supports it. Who wants to discuss it? [[Nobody.]] I am putting to the vote an amendment for the new Article 1.a. The proposer shall be the committee. There are 73 Members and Members present. We are voting on the amendment for a new Article 1. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 10.]] Can I have your attention, please? I take it that the amendment for Article 1a has been adopted. I am putting to the debate Article 2 to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I put Article 2 to the vote. We're picking up the presence! 65 Members and Members are present. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against six.]] I take it that the amendment was, pardon me, that Article 2 was fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Does anyone want to discuss the title of the law? Because no, we're going to the vote. I'm putting the title of the law to the vote. We're picking up the presence! 71 Members and Members are present. We vote on the title of the law. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the Procedural proposal perhaps? [[...]] [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that amendments were adopted to the proposal for a second reading, namely Article 1 and Article 1a. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so. Before that, I am asking whether anyone wants to discuss the marriage proposal in its entirety. Since no one wants to discuss any further, I ask, pursuant to paragraph 3 of Article 198, the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs if the adopted amendments violate the mutual compatibility of the provisions of the law. I'm guessing it's not. We are moving on to a full vote on the law. Excuse me? An explanation of the voice?
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u127	Allow a procedural proposal in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to propose that we take a 20-minute recess in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u128	20 minutes? 20 minutes of rest, it is said to continue on 16.10. Ten minutes after four, we continue on the proposal of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u129	Dear colleagues, we note the presence. [[47 present.]] Before voting on the law as a whole, I ask Mr Drobnik, or a representative of the Group of Members, who wanted to consult to present the opinion. Mr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! At the moment, we are facing a judgment decision, on the threshold of what we in Novi Slovenija would expect to be a real long-term systemic solution to the problem that has already occurred throughout the decade of our independence, and this is our system of pensions. I am well aware that this is a very big problem. And we really expected to do it in a different way than we did in a quick procedure. We truly regret that it has not been possible to have a major debate, such as the actual depth of this problem that we have to face. We really regret that, on such a key issue, the coalition majority has decided to proceed quickly and to use the voting power you obviously have. I think with all fairness and legitimacy we should expect, and we expected responsible leadership from the coalition itself, because that's why you've also received the support of the voters you want. Dear colleagues, we will not get too far. Such key issues must be the subject of deep analysis, all citizens and all citizens must understand this, because sooner or later these accounts will still be coming. Unfortunately, we are re-deciding 'on the hook' and following a rapid procedure for 'flickaria', but not for systemic solutions, as required by such a problem. We will not support this law, as you can understand from the debate. But I call, and I hope that there will be such a debate in the near future, because what you accept today will not solve the real problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u131	Thank you. Voice explanation, Mr. Victory Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u132	Thank you very much. My speaker has just said a number of things that we agree on in our Group of Members. The matter is inconceivable, the matter is made "ad hoc", approximately so that it will definitely have to be repaired in four, five months. Initially, we believed that the trends of this government were good and that the tendencies of the Prime Minister were such that they would benefit Slovenian citizens and citizens. There is always less of this, there is a growing lack of this faith and there is a growing desire for its own benefit, a desire for its own promotions and a desire to endure there until 2002, when Mr Prime Minister would run for President of the Republic and then leave the flood and disaster behind. This is precisely why, procedurally, on behalf of the Group of Members, we demand two hours of recess to decide how we will vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u133	Unfortunately, we cannot agree with this proposal because we are just before the vote. [[Ambassador Jelinčič is calling from the bench.]] We are already in the voting process and in the explanatory phase of the vote, which belongs to the voting process itself. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr. Peterle, please. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Mr. Peterle wants to explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u134	Dear Members and Members, Comrades and Comrades! See, in the foreign policy area, we were able to reach a fundamental consensus or broad consensus on our main foreign policy objectives; these debates continued, I would say, for a long time and have also been properly concluded. However, when it comes to, in my opinion, the most sensitive, the most extensive and probably the most difficult social issue or social policy issue, this is what happens only with a game of power, with a slight cheering against the opposition, and I have missed at least an attempt from the highest cities to at least try a process of finding consensus that is not done as it started and will end today, but is being done in another way. Well, there was no attempt to settle the matter. Because whoever is or will be in this position will face this issue. It would be better to find a more lasting, longer-term, more systemic solution than our group leader, Mr Bajuk, rightly called "flickaria". In this way we do not want to participate, we have our concepts, our views, we are always ready for the debate. However, as easily as it went in a few hours, after almost ten years of failure, this coalition, relying solely on quantity, will now resolve the issue in one two three. I'm against it, and I won't support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u135	Thank you. Voice explanation, Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u136	On behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members, I would say that we are aware of the problem of pension and deficit in the Social Democratic Party and thus the problem of public finances. However, we do not land in such a way as to cover or partially cover this pension box in a linear way that strikes at all, including the weaker, socially endangered layers. This is a key and basic reason why we cannot support the proposaler in this partial attempt. We would be very happy if the government would take over this task and, with the other shortcomings that are evident in this law, prepare for a quick or short period of good, a comprehensive solution to this pension reform, which has already proved itself in just one year. So that we cannot, indeed, agree to such a weak solution that does not solve the underlying problem and also has no clear financial implications and some clear financial picture of how the pension fund will be resolved in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr. Stemberger, explanation of vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. I will explain the voice of the Young Slovenia Party. The fact is that the way pensions have been reconciled in the past has already undergone a number of legal changes, and this is happening again today. The reform of the pension system was obviously not successful, not only was it recognized, but it was obviously incomplete. The effects that appear gradually are small. On top of that, this reform was unbalanced. It is easier to shift the burden to others, to simply extend the working age and the like, and thus to shift the burden only to part of the population, here I think mainly about the active part of the population, i.e. to young people. Taking care of the young generation is left to their ingenuity and parents. However, the older generation has apparently always made you available to the state minor. So public consumption. We support this law in principle only because the experiment is in the right direction. Our aim, however, is to ensure a fair intergenerational harmonised pension system, and this means, inter alia, coordination of pensions with the growth of living costs, i.e. retail prices. Therefore, the proposed law for the Young Slovenia Party is only a symbolic correction, which must be followed absolutely by concrete amendments to the law, which will, as soon as possible, divide the burden evenly and fairly into all generations. Therefore, at this point, I would like to point out that on the website of the Young Slovenia Party, we will also count on support from the parliamentary benches for amendments to the law on pension and disability insurance in the near future.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u139	Thank you. Mr. Pache, an explanation of the voice. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u140	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. The Slovenian national party will not give a single vote to this confusion, the confusion you will cause on behalf of the government in the area of pensions or in the area of the socially weakest layer, the one that unfortunately has in this national assembly only those representatives who do not see the pensions and thus the whole layer or segment of these people satisfied. With the matter you have caused what is possible in part, and I do not want to paralyze it, nor will I, cause it to be symbolically corrected, that you will symbolically fulfill the pre-election promises, but all of this only on a symbolic level, nothing concrete and nothing satisfying. Unfortunately, you have caused this law to meet again in a month or two, in the best faith in a year or so, and to correct it again. Unfortunately, on your part, Madam President, with such an important law that you adopt after this rapid procedure, you do not give Members' groups the opportunity to consult well in this area, namely in the area of pension and disability insurance, and not to grant us the required breaks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u141	Thank you. Just an explanation for the obvious. I'm sure we could get a chance if we asked for it in time. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u142	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! If you came from environments like me, where there are the most pensioners who receive 30,000 per month of pension, and those who receive no more than 60 000 and have worked 30, 35 or even 40 years, and where today the workers in the large Italian company Carrera earn 55,000 tolars per month, then you would certainly not have decided on such changes as quickly as you suggest today, but would have done it quite differently. However, since you are doing this in such a way, because of course you are all very well provided, I will not vote in favour of such a bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u143	Thank you. Mrs. Majda Zupan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Allow me to make my call as a new Member of Parliament and who [[...]] [[It's not on.]] important decisions. [[...]] There are quite a number of pensioners among my constituents, and I am sure they cannot be satisfied with such solutions. For me, this is one of the key decisions that we are making today, and I cannot understand why the coalition is doing so easily. That is why I cannot give my vote for such a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u145	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer. Explanation of voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u146	Allow me to explain my voice, honourable Members and Members. I'm in the middle of something. Since this proposal for amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act does not include solutions in terms of increasing the number of employees, because it does not include a solution to the recovery of contributions and taxes, because it is not in any way working in relation to elements of economic policy, because it is not even a matter of decommissioning the economy, but it will also affect economic operators who will have to contribute to a greater extent, because this proposal does not therefore contain comprehensive solutions that would help to remedy the neurological problem of the Slovenian State, I will, of course, have to vote "against" in an understandable way.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'll wait.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u149	Your Honor! I'm asking for peace in the hall! I ask for a little more silence so that the debaters can give their views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u150	Mr. Anderlich, you don't have to listen, so you can leave the hall. This is your right. But you have no right to disable the bench and disturb someone if they want to explain their voice. I hope, Madam President, that you will warn Mr Anderlich of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u151	I think it's enough peace now. Here you go, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u152	Thank you very much. I have already mentioned in the debate some reasons why such a way of amending the law on pension and disability insurance is not good. I also gave some reasons or ways to fill a pension fund in a different way. Even more. The Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia has also tabled an amendment. This amendment, of course, speaks of the coordination of those pensions that are lower than 100,000 tolars. That is, we talked about those who have the lowest pensions, people who come or are mainly in a demographically threatened area, from socially weak families. A colleague in front of me said what incomes are like in a particular company. I can tell you even more. In the area from which I come, unemployment is high above the average of the country, even with a factor of 1.5 to 2 times and so on. All these reasons speak in favour of such a change, and by swift procedure and so incomplete, it simply cannot be obtained and, in my opinion, should not be supported in this national assembly. Unfortunately, of course, some try to do this only through an argument of power and, colleagues and colleagues, that is too little. Such a congratulations to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia for Christmas and New Year's holidays, I hope it is your last. That's why, of course, I won't support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to explain their vote anymore, I am putting to the vote a full vote on the draft law. There are 77 Members and Members present. Who's in favour of the whole bill? [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 20 plus Mr. Janša.]] I note that the proposal for a law has been fully adopted. With regard to this law, the Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons Committee also tabled an additional proposal for a decision, which reads as follows: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall, by the end of March 2001, examine further inconsistencies and shortcomings in the implementation of the individual provisions of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act and prepare and submit to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and adoption of appropriate amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act." Would anyone like to discuss the proposed additional decision? Since no, I am concluding the debate in this part and putting the proposed additional decision of the Committee to the vote. 71 Members and Members are present. We are voting on the proposed additional decision, as I have presented it. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that the proposed additional decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this item on the agenda and invite Mr Delak to take the Chair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u154	All present and welcome. We're moving to six. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on the Supplementation of the Minimum Payment Act, on the method of harmonising wages and on the schedule for summer leave in the period 1999 to 2001. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Minister, Mr. Dimovski, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. Allow me to briefly present a proposal for amendments to the Minimum Wages and Wage Coordination Act. With this proposal, we would like to provide a legal basis whereby agreements reached or an annex to wage policy agreements could enter into force with 1.1.2001. In short, I would say that over the past 14 days, we have tried to reach agreements with the social partners, on the one hand, with the social partners in the public sector and on the other hand in the economy. The situation is that at this point the government has initialled an agreement on a public sector wage policy for 2001 and continues to coordinate with the social partners to agree on an annex to the 2001 wage policy agreement on Friday At the moment, the proposal proposed by the Government to amend the Minimum Wages Act allows for agreement or an annex to an agreement on wage policy to be put into effect with 1.1.2001. In this agreement, among others, I am talking about an agreement on how to harmonise wages in the public sector in 2001, one escalation at the beginning of the year of 3.6 is possible, while for the second part of the escalation up to 6.3, it is possible for the social partners to determine the extent to be ensured by this escalation or by this scale of the mass to reduce wage differentials in each sector. In short, I would say that, as a government, we withdraw the amendments we have proposed to amend the law and accept the amendments approved by the committee this morning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u156	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a mother's labour force. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. The President, Mr. Brenčič, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Fellow Members, fellow Members, members of the government. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, at its 3rd extraordinary meeting today in the morning or immediately in the morning, considered a proposal for a law submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The initial explanation of the bill was given by the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Vlado Dimovski. He stressed that negotiations between the social partners have been very intensive in the last 14 days. An agreement was reached on how to coordinate public sector wages for 2001 and the escalating scale. Negotiations with trade unions are still under way. The agreement on how to harmonise wages in the public sector was signed and provides that part of the funding earmarked for wage harmonisation in 2001 is also intended to reduce the imbalances between salaries of employees in the public sector. The social partners pledged to develop a new public sector wage system in 2001 and to address the major wage imbalances within the sector. The members of the Committee have received an opinion from the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, which notes that the draft law is prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article 175 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. However, the Secretariat's notice referred to the provision of an annex replacing the provision of the law. In such a case, its implementation and supervision are no longer sanctioned at this legal level. The debate raised the question whether, despite the failure to take into account the price of tobacco products and the price of alcoholic beverages, an annex to the public sector wage policy agreement would reduce by 1.8% for 2001. The Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs gave the answer. He stressed that it was not a reduction in wages, but a reallocation under public finances. According to the old agreement, in January 2001, most of the wage growth would be 6.3%. According to the proposed redeployment, the first escalation of 3.6% will take place in January 2001 and the second, the difference of up to 6.3% by August 2001. On the basis of the debate and the replies provided by the members of the Government, the Committee has drawn up and adopted two amendments, or better so, it has reformulated the proposed government amendment, as contained in the report, for a new A1 Article and for Article 1. Following the discussion and the amendments adopted, the Committee adopted the following decision: "The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Minimum Wage, Method of Coordination of Wages and Regression for the period 1999-2001 should be considered and adopted together with the amendments approved by the Committee in its procedure, and adopted by means of a rapid procedure." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u158	Mr President, thank you very much for the report. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mr. Vizjak, Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u159	President, thank you so much for your word. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! In the Social Democratic Party, we are aware of the irregularity of wage policy in the public sector, and we therefore support efforts to systematically regulate wage relations in the public sector. Today we have a wish, at least that has been said, but it is not clear from the material how this change of law would affect the regulation of the wage system in the public sector, even though it has been said here. We also cannot agree that this amendment does not result from a reduction in wages, since if the projected increase in wages in the first period of 2001 is reduced, this means that wages will be lower than they would have been without, without this amendment, at least for the first eight months, that is until August. It is also unclear from the material what this means for the lowest wages and the lowest layers, for those who receive wages below minimum wages or who receive salaries below, say, the fourth tariff group. It is also unclear how this will be reflected in the future or in the period from the eighth to the twelfth months. At the same time, we have concerns, and we are kind of interested in monitoring how trade unions, in particular the public sector unions, are so cooperative that they dock and sign agreements that are financially unfavourable to them. I wonder what would happen if similar proposals were proposed by the government before this government. I would also like an answer from the government and a clear picture of the financial implications of this amendment of the law in the first four months, in particular in terms of the lowest wages. So how can we predict an increase in wages, what will be the minimum wage in January 2001 and, of course, in August 2001? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u160	Thank you. Does any other representative of the parliamentary group want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. There are no written reports, so I limit the debate to five minutes. Anybody want to talk? Please. Mr. Sugar from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u161	Well, surely, if we say bob beans, however, it is also about reducing the minimum wage with the delay of coordination, etc. We know these things. Given that we have a large budget deficit that we have produced in recent years, it is quite understandable that the government is predicting that both pensioners and employees will be bound to the belt. Perhaps such an intervention in the living conditions of workers is even the only possible solution to the problem brought to us by the current economic policy. Provided that the proposed freezing or more precisely, to put it mildly, even trade unions agree to lower wages, I find it difficult to oppose the proposal. However, I ask both the bill-maker and the union how workers and their families should survive by further reducing already one way or another the minimum wage. That there will be no misunderstanding, I do not represent the politics of the same stomachs. However, I represent selective approaches to solving these problems. I support the view that we all have stomachs, though some bigger, other smaller ones. In Slovenia, I would like to see the European principle of the social state prevail, not the South American principle of liberal capitalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 20.12. Please, I'm sorry, I didn't see. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u163	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u164	No, I didn't see it. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u165	I'm sorry. I would ask nicely if, however, I could answer some of the questions put by Members, particularly in three points such as questions. First of all, with respect to minimum wage. There are no changes to the minimum wage following this amendment of the law. It is said that the minimum wage is coordinated as the current agreement provides and the law, the minimum wage law, which practically aligns the minimum wage at a level such as has been so far. Other as far as I'm concerned [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u166	Please, for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u167	the level of wages, what was asked by the Member of the Visionary. [[...]] We're not talking about lower wages, but we're talking about lower escalation than it was under the current agreement, and we're talking about an escalation of 3.6. Third, which was asked about the reduction of wage differences. This agreement gives the public sector the opportunity to coordinate wages, but as the social partners will decide in collective agreements. That's a short answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u168	Thank you very much for explaining. As I have already mentioned, we are in second reading and we are considering the new A1 article in the review since 20.12. The proposer shall be the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons. Anybody want a word? Please, Mr. Vizjak, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u169	In Article 1a, the amendment of the Committee, it is said that the price of tobacco products and alcoholic beverages should not be taken into account when harmonising wages. I wonder whether this agreement, with regard to the coordination of wages and intervention in the coordination of wages or intervention in wages in general, is agreed in any social dialogue and is in line with the social partners that this agreement tanges? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Can a government representative answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u171	Thank you very much. During the negotiations, the government proposed such a solution to the Life Needs Price Index. At the moment, as far as the negotiations are concerned, these objections have not been addressed by the social partners.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Since no one wants to say another word, we're going to make a decision. I'm putting an amendment to the vote for the new A1 article. There are 67 Members and Members present. We're voting on the amendment. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Point 2, the new Article A1 is added, has been withdrawn. We move on to Article 1, this is the amendment of the Committee on Health, Labour, Family and Social Policy. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing there aren't any debaters. There are 64 Members and Members present. We're voting on the amendment. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I shall put to the vote Article 1 in full. 62 Members and Members are present. We vote on Article 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 12.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are discussing Article 2 in which no amendments have been tabled. There are 56 Members and Members present. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 11.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Does anyone want to discuss the title of the law? Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a vote. 62 Members and Members are present. Who's in favor of the title of the law? [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I find that in the second reading, amendments have been adopted, and please, if there are any amendments in the third reading to submit them. Does anyone want to discuss the whole law? Since no one wants to discuss it, I am putting the law to a full vote. There are 64 Members and Members present. Who's for marriage as a whole? [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 12.]] I find that the law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, that is to say, the proposal of the State's opinion on the finding that the legal procedure was in connection with the proposals of the laws proposed by the delegates of the previous decision, so they were not re-elected, final. The proposal for a decision with an annex was received by reference to the meeting of 18.12.2000 and was prepared in agreement with the College of the President of the National Assembly. This is a proposal for a finding based on the current practice of the National Assembly, which will end the legislative procedure on those bills and proposals for the adoption of a mandatory interpretation of the laws tabled by Members of the previous reference and have not been re-elected in this mandate. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Who wants a word? Since no one wants to debate, I conclude the debate and put the proposed conclusion to the vote. Please, first, let's find out where we are! 66 Members and Members are present. We're voting on the proposal. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] In view of the outcome of the vote, I note that the proposed finding has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 8. On the day-to-day basis, this is for the defence of the amendment of the report on economic companies in enterprises or institutions, for which it is in accordance with the first paragraph of paragraph 20. A member of the Act on the non-conformity of the public function with gainful activity is subject to a ban on business with the State, public undertakings and public institutions. The amendment to the report was submitted to the assembly by the Commission under the law on the non-responsibility of carrying out a public function with a gainful activity. Does the representative of the commission want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The home working body shall propose to the assembly to adopt the following decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall adopt an amendment to the report on companies, undertakings or institutions which, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 20 of the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity, shall be prohibited from doing business with the State, public undertakings and public institutions." After consideration, this amendment to the report shall be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. I am opening a debate on the proposal for a decision. Anybody want a word? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. Please, let's find out who's here! There are 55 Members and Members present. We vote on the decision. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] In view of the outcome of the vote, I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to nine. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement on free trade between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Estonia. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I don't see a government representative. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss any further and since no amendment has been tabled to the draft law before the start of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. That proposal for a decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed decision? Since no one wants to, I conclude the debate and propose a decision to vote. There are 54 Members and Members present. We're voting on the proposal. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] In view of the outcome of the vote, I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. Thus, I am putting to the vote a full bill. There are 58 Members and Members present. Let's vote on the proposal. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] In view of the outcome of the vote, I note that the proposal is fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the encouragement and mutual protection of the investment. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss and since no amendment has been tabled to the draft law before the start of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with paragraph 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. That proposal for a decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed decision? Since no one wants to debate, I conclude the debate and propose a decision to vote. 62 Members and Members are present. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. Thus, I am putting to the vote a full bill. There are 58 Members and Members present. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the bill has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 11. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Central European Agreement on the free trade, with ANNEXES AND PROTOCOL 26 AND 31. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss and since no amendment has been tabled to the draft law before the initiation of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. That proposal for a decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed decision? Since no one wants to, I conclude the debate and propose a decision to vote. I ask Members and Members to register their presence. There are 63 Members and Members present. We're voting on the proposal. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] In view of the outcome of the vote, I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. Thus, I am putting to the vote a full bill. I ask Members and Members to register their presence. There are 57 Members and Members present. We're voting on the proposal. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] In view of the outcome of the vote, I note that the proposal is fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a bill on the ratification of the Convention against Bribery of Foreign Officials in International Business. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss and since no amendment has been tabled to the draft law before the start of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with paragraph 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. That proposal for a decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it.Who wants to discuss the proposed decision? Since no one wants to debate, I conclude the debate and propose a decision to vote. There are 56 Members and Members present. Let's vote on the proposal. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] In view of the outcome of the vote, I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. Thus, I am putting to the vote a full bill. There are 56 Members and Members present. Let's vote on the proposal. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] In view of the outcome of the vote, I note that the proposal is fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Hungary on border control of road and rail traffic. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss and since no amendment has been tabled to the draft law before the start of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with paragraph 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. That proposal for a decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed decision? Since no one wants to debate, I conclude the debate and propose a decision to vote. There are 56 Members and Members present. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. Thus, I am putting to the vote a full bill. 52 Members and Members are present. Who's in favour of the whole bill? [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 14. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on Main Railway Traffic. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Can I have some peace, please? Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it and since no amendment has been tabled to the draft law by the beginning of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with paragraph 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. That proposal for a decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed decision? Since no one wants to debate, I conclude the debate and propose a decision to vote. I ask Members and Members to register their presence. There are 53 Members and Members present. Let's vote on the proposal. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] In view of the outcome of the vote, I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. Thus, I am putting to the vote a full bill. Members and Members, please note their presence. 41 Members and Members are present. That is why we are voting once again, or once again, to determine our presence. There are 55 Members and Members present. Let's vote on the proposal. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on cooperation between the Republic of Slovenia and the International Criminal Court for Rwanda. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Mr Ivan Bizjak, Minister for Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u173	Nicely greeted! The present law stems from the obligation of our country as members of the United Nations to adopt implementing rules that will enable the effective functioning of an international criminal court for serious violations of international humanitarian law in the former Yugoslavia and in the courts for Rwanda. In some areas, however, which are entirely dependent on fundamental solutions in this law, cooperation with the International Criminal Court can be achieved by applying the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act. This law is new to those segments of cooperation with the International Criminal Court, which do not yet have the appropriate legal basis in the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. This is in particular: the duty of the Republic of Slovenia to cooperate with an international criminal court, the determination of the State authorities of the Republic of Slovenia responsible for co-ordinated and ongoing cooperation, the determination of mutual relations and relations between domestic authorities in relation to an international criminal court, the acceptance of the jurisdiction of an international criminal court, the delimitation and the relationship between the jurisdiction of that court and the jurisdiction of domestic courts, the transfer of jurisdiction and the observance of the principle of "no bis and idem"; the third, the confiscation of liberty of the accused under the responsibility of an international criminal court, its detention, transport and surrender to an international criminal court, and the execution of other tasks of that court in respect of actual and legal assistance; the fourth, the taking away of unlawfully obtained property benefits under the mandate of an international criminal court; the fifth, the decision on property and the execution of the court. In the light of the comments made by the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, as well as in the light of some comments made by the representatives of the judiciary, the Government proposes five amendments, three of which are editorial in nature and two of which relate to the more appropriate regulation of the right of appeal in all the proceedings envisaged or in certain procedures provided for in this Act. So much for the intro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u174	Mr. Secretary, thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to get out of here.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u176	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The report you received would have added the following that the debate was much more controversial than the report may have been, that is the first. Secondly, I will say that there have also been a lot of concerns about some of the solutions in the law itself, many different positions have somehow been aligned, and some have been warned and, of course, expecting the government to make appropriate amendments, the law has been upheld. Thus, the fact that the law goes quickly because, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, all the conditions, as well as the content, are met; of course, what the Minister has already said. In particular, it is a detention decision and a extradition decision, because provision had to be made for complaints, otherwise the law would have been disabled in some way. So the committee finally proposes, as you have seen, that we adopt the law quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u178	Mr. President Lavrinz, thank you very much. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, this is to a debate and to a decision on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. There are 53 Members and Members present. Let's vote on the proposal. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 20.12. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment to this article proposed by the Government. Anybody want a word? Because he doesn't want to, we're going to make a decision. I am putting to the vote the amendment to Article 5. 52 Members and Members are present. Let us vote on the amendment to Article 5. [[42 members voted in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and Article 5 has also been adopted. We have an amendment to Article 8. Anybody want a word? Because no one wants a word, I'm going to make a decision. I am putting to the vote the amendment to Article 8. There are 54 Members and Members present. Who is behind the amendment to Article 8? [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I shall put Article 8 to the vote in full. 49 Members and Members are present. Who's in favor of Article 8? [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 8 has been adopted. We are considering the amendment to Article 12. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody wants a word.]] There are 56 Members and Members present. Who's behind the amendment to Article 12? [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I shall put Article 12 to the vote in full. 52 Members and Members are present. Let us vote on Article 12 as a whole. Please, let's find out who's here! [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 12 has been adopted. We have an amendment to Article 13. Anybody want a word? Because no one wants a word, we're going to make a decision. I am putting to the vote the amendment to Article 13. There are 53 Members and Members present. Let's vote on the amendment. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 13 as a whole. There are 51 Members and Members present. Let us vote on Article 13 as a whole. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 13 is fully adopted. We are considering the amendment to Article 15. Anybody want a word? Since no one wants a word, I'm going to make a decision. There are 51 Members and Members present. We're voting on the amendment. Let's find out who's here! We're voting on the amendment. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 15 as a whole. There are 51 Members and Members present. Please, let's vote! [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 15 has been adopted. We have held a debate on the amendments tabled, we are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? Since no one wants to say another word, I am putting to the vote the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. There are 57 Members and Members present. Please let us vote on the proposal. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Does anyone want to discuss the title of the law? Since no one wants to, we are going to the vote. Please, let's find out who's here! There are 53 Members and Members present. We vote on the title of the law. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] The title of the law is thus adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that amendments were adopted to the proposal for a second reading, and I ask qualified applicants if they can table any amendments. Apparently not, but I am asking if anyone wants to discuss the marriage proposal in its entirety. [[He doesn't want to.]] I ask, pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 198 of the Rules of Procedure of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, if the adopted amendments violate the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law. [[It's not.]] That is why we are moving to a full vote on the law. There are 60 Members and Members present. We are voting on the bill as a whole. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. At the end of the day, this is a defence proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Asylum Act. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me just a few remarks on this bill. First of all, I would like to say that the government is preparing a broader amendment of this law on a regular basis, given that we have found a number of shortcomings in the first experience in the implementation of this law. In today's case, it is only an intervention that responds to the situation in which Slovenia is under enormous pressure from illegal migrants to our country. That this pressure is really great, it can confirm to you that the increase according to last year is 79 and that this year's number is over 31,000 illegal migrants who were caught at the illegal crossing of the state border - an increase from just over 20,000 to 31,000. More than a third of these migrants apply for asylum, and some 11,000 asylum seekers are registered this year, of which a total of 11 asylums have been granted so far. This shows - from both data - : for the first time that so many have applied for asylum, and from the data that so few asylums have been granted, it is more than obvious that the Institute of Asylum is being strongly and mass-abused. We want to prevent this abuse from a new law, which is, in fact, as you have seen, adding another reason for temporary detention, the detention of an illegal crossing across the border and the asylum-seekers, and this is the deception or abuse of the asylum institution. This, therefore, is added as a reason for holding or restricting freedom. That's the point of the first change. The essence of the second amendment is that the government should then have the right in the law to determine who the so-called third safe country is. So far, the government has taken this decision without having the power to do so in the law, which, according to theory and constitutional practice, is controversial, so we have now introduced in this intervention into the law that, of course, the government will declare Croatia and Hungary a so-called third safe country, allowing the asylum seeker to be returned to this country and thus resolve the problem of a certain number of migrants, thus allowing him to return to where he comes from. I conclude that this amendment is only one of a number of measures that the government is preparing - part of which it is considering at tomorrow's meeting - to resolve the problem of the great pressure of illegal migrants. These measures concern both the reasons for this, in cooperation with European and South-East countries, the coordination of visa policies, the negotiation of the return of foreigners and the like, as well as the resolution of the intolerable situation - the housing situation - for people who are running or staying on a temporary basis in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u180	Mr. Minister Bohinc, thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Chairman. From the report you received, and according to my opinion it is correct, but not the full reflection of what has been happening on the committee, it is clear that the committee has supported this law, that is to say, the adoption of this law by swift procedure. Of course, the Committee also drew attention to a number of shortcomings or discussions on the Committee. As a result, the Committee has adopted a decision that, according to our judgment, is actually harder than the law itself. In the majority view, the law is poor, I will say, more supported by the way "the devil of the fly eats" because it does not fully concern the target that we would like to achieve, and this is to prevent in some way the intrusion, so to speak, of so many foreigners who do not actually have a place to go with us. It was therefore proposed first to amend the nomotechnic law; secondly, it was proposed that a provision should be introduced into the law itself, from which it could be possible for Slovenia to make Croatia and Hungary, of course, a safe country, and thus simplify the procedure. So, above all, I will stress once again that even a misleading statement in the bill is that the law has no financial implications. This is not true because we know that more foreigners will be limited in movement and, of course, should be provided with accommodation, which costs money. The Committee therefore considered that a decision should be taken as proposed, namely to provide the police with a sufficient number of appropriate resources, i.e. material, such as tools to enable them to do better work at the borders and to ensure that they were paid hours. Otherwise, of course, these coffins will continue to roll. At the same time, it is also important to note the remarks or comments made by the High Commissioner of the United Nations on refugees, who is already pointing out the impossible situations in which foreigners are waiting or settled. So, in anticipation of the near proposal of the law, the new law or the comprehensive money of the asylum law, the Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the law be adopted quickly and also that the proposed amendments be adopted by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mr Wolf on behalf of the LDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u183	Thank you for your word, President. I will highlight the position of the LDS in the LDS Group of Members, and we are aware of the problem of illegal crossings of the state border and of the problems of the abuse of the asylum institution in this regard. The proposed amendment to the Asylum Act refers to the completion of the conditions laid down by the law, but in our view the purpose of the law is clear, but the addition does not solve this issue in a comprehensive manner. That is why we also support the findings of the Internal Policy Committee. This is about police having a new reason to limit the movement of all fictitious asylum seekers whose primary purpose is to continue their journey to Western European countries. As the Minister has already pointed out, we have also found that it is one of the measures to address the problem of illegal transitions, but it will have consequences; that is, that the number of persons whose limited movement in the asylum home and the centre for foreigners will increase, and this will certainly have negative effects, namely, that the funds and expenditure for the functioning of these institutions will increase. Nevertheless, we assess, despite these open questions, that we have decided to support the law, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on asylum. We also support the proposal for a decision set up by the Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy. Of course, it will be necessary to approach in the future, as provided by the Minister, also on the Committee on Internal Policy, to create more complex amendments to the Asylum Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Given that it is 6:00 p.m., I ask Members and Members whether we conclude this agenda item or continue until or until the end of tomorrow morning. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u185	I propose, on behalf of New Slovenia, that this point be concluded tonight. If we are last night because I see liberal democracy opposes me. Good.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u186	Okay. That we will not waste time, please, if there are other parliamentary groups still applying. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u187	I'll be very brief. As the chairman of the Committee has already said, the substance of this substance is in this additional decision. And since this change of law essentially solves the consequences, not all of us want to solve the causes, but the causes are at our borders. That's what they say. South and east. And I would like the government to take this additional decision seriously at the time of the adoption of this law, because this is the essence of it. And if this comes upon fertile ground - and I think that there is no one who would not agree with this additional decision to impose these tasks on the government and as a support to take these measures seriously, because with refugees there are problems mainly in areas that are borderline, and our citizens already have a lot of problems with these refugees, and our government is also responsible for ensuring our citizens the security that must be provided to them. I propose once again that the Government take seriously the content of this additional decision and work primarily on it. However, I think that this law must be supported and adopted, but the essence is in that additional decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u188	Any other parliamentary groups? Mr. Levich, Young People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u189	Thank you for your word. Opinion of the Young Slovenia Party. It is in the national interest to resolve the problem of illegal border crossings and asylum seekers. However, we doubt that the proposed law, such as it is, without implementing rules, will do much to address this issue. The comments of the expert institutions on the Committee are more than just justified. The consequences of a law without regulation in other areas can be brought into a coma, according to the local word. We will support the law, however, in the hope that this issue will be resolved as soon as possible, and we ask the proposer to take into account the comments made by the professional institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Any other parliamentary groups would like a word? Mr Barovic, Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u191	Thank you for your word. I'll be brief. The Slovenian national party assesses that a proposal or law amending and supplementing the Asylum Act should be adopted. We certainly support everything that has been said on the Internal Policy Committee, but we propose that if only we can, we should set a time limit for this law to be fully prepared, as colleagues have asked; but if it is not possible to set a deadline, we should at least take an additional decision or decide to do so as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Any other parliamentary groups would like a word? Mrs. Potrata, the combined list.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u193	I would like to say that the Joint List Group supports the proposed changes, especially because we know that the problem has to be resolved in some way, particularly because of the situation in which those who have opted for their escape because of the impossible situations. And while this poses a major problem for our country, both materially and in legal and spatial terms, we still think that this change at least partially resolves the situation that has arisen, and we are even more interested in a more comprehensive and thorough, more detailed review of the whole law and the changes that would be urgently needed in this regard.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Any other parliamentary groups would like a word? Here you go, Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u195	Thank you very much. I will join myself in the opinions of the other parliamentary groups. I will, of course, support this law, but I would like to underline how strange it is that only 16 asylums have been granted so far. I strongly doubt that there have been only 16 people coming to Slovenia to seek asylum, from places where terrible human rights violations are taking place, etc. So it will also have to be borne in mind in the comprehensive resolution of these problems, a dimension that takes into account the help of people who actually need it, and not just the expulsion of those who abuse it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Any other parliamentary groups? It doesn't look like it. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one has applied in writing, I limit the debate to five minutes. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Shuklje.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u197	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament. It's two aspects of the problem. We have begun to face the problem of asylum with the so-called exacerbation of the situation in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. At that moment, we were aware, and this National Assembly also decided that Slovenia could activate the Law on Temporary Asylum for 1,600 individuals and for members of their families. In the next moment, roughly as we predicted, we met another part of the problem, with so-called economic asylum seekers. Experts at the interior ministry or experts involved in this work are estimated to be somewhere near us or in our area between 200 and 300,000 people who wish to cross the borders illegally and, of course, apply for asylum. I think it is important that we today accept this part of the amendment or this part of the amendment to the asylum law. It is important that we commit ourselves to a comprehensive new law on asylum in the shortest possible time. Because I think that within this trend that we can follow, there is an opportunity or the possibility of Slovenia becoming a target country for the multitude of these people who are looking for a better, safer life in Europe at the shortest possible time. We have no answers to these questions about what will happen in the moment that Slovenia becomes a target country. These are not just the answers of the Ministry of the Interior, they are the answers to a comprehensive policy. On the other hand, we must be very precise and very consistent in the area of visa policy. The area - this is probably part of a European policy that is least visible, but it is the least important, but most closely and consistently monitored. What we have said so far would only be complemented by two proposals. The first proposal, ladies and gentlemen, for which I would like your support, is this: we need to improve the material possibilities for police and police action. Some of my forerunners have already talked about this. This is what we can now also link to preparations for the introduction of the Schengen border. We have to control the border. It is the sovereign state that controls the exits and entrances to its territory or country. I propose that we support the first decision, which has already been proposed to impose on the government to provide better material conditions for police and police work. And second of all, I think it's important. In the last six months, the burden of people working in the police department has increased. According to my data, which I have a few months ago and which I can now say, I am somehow multiplying, at this point in Slovenia, about 40,000 overtime is unpaid to Slovenian police and police officers. I think it is necessary, because of the increased volume of work that is mainly related to the problem of illegal migration, that this year also needs to be ensured. In short, I propose two conclusions. The first conclusion - an additional conclusion to increase funds for police and police material equipment already this year, and secondly, that the government will do its utmost to make up for a lack of overtime this year. For this amount, there is no room in the Ministry of the Interior to pay the deficit or unpaid overtime or to increase the amount of work for police and police officers. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u198	Mr. Shuklje, please file additional conclusions in writing. One moment, please. After counting the votes I have just made, I find that we are no longer concluding. That's why I'm interrupting today's session. We'll resume tomorrow at 10 a.m.
