ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-10-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I want a good day and a good day's work. I begin the continuation of the 1st meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Nobody's holding back because we haven't gotten any information about this. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall! I'm picking up the presence! [[79 plus 1.]] That is to say, one Member has forgotten the voting card at home, so if you accept it, there are 80 Members and Members present. The assembly will consider the remaining two items of the agenda, first item 4, the election of the President and Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, and then item 5, which is the election of the working bodies of the National Assembly, or the material submitted by the Commission of Kviaz. You have received a revised agenda by notification of the continuation of this meeting. We're moving to four. This is the election of the President and the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. We will first proceed with the election of the President of the National Assembly, who will then continue to chair this meeting. I ask the President of the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission to present a proposal for a candidate for the President of the National Assembly. Mr. Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-10-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Commission of the National Assembly for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs, on the basis of Article 132 and Article 244(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly at the second meeting, held today on 10 November 2000, concluded that we had received a proposal from the Group of Members of the Joint List of Social Democrats, which, as the candidate for the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, proposes a Member of the National Assembly and a member of their parliamentary group, Mr Borut Pahor. The debate found that the proposal was supported by a majority of the groups. By a majority of the votes identified, the Commission of the National Assembly for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs decided to propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia a candidate for the President of the National Assembly of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor. According to the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for elections, appointments and administrative matters, pursuant to the third indent of the first paragraph of Article 132 and the first paragraph of Article 244 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Mr Borut Pahor proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia a candidate for President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-10-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Pucko. In view of the fact that, in accordance with Rule 244 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a group of at least ten Members may also propose to the President, I note that these proposals have not been tabled at the President's table. I'm opening a debate. Members of the parliamentary groups would like a word? Mr. Sašo Pece, SNS Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-10-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u4	Thank you, for your word. In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we support Mr Borut Pahor's proposal for the President of the National Assembly for two reasons, mainly on the basis of long-standing cooperation in parliamentary affairs between the Joint List and the Slovenian National Party. We estimate that the candidate is suitable and that the candidate is capable of performing this extremely difficult and responsible function. We interviewed Mr Pahor, representatives of the Slovenian National Party delegation yesterday, where we have only consolidated our conviction of appropriateness. In addition, I would like to point out two foundations, two basic foundations that have further encouraged us, namely, a very developed social note on the candidate's proposal and because we are convinced that Slovenia is today or that Slovenia is the moment where this note is still needed, we are so much more pleased with the proposal that includes this path. Secondly, it is mainly easier for Parliament and for us to be members of the National Assembly to know the parliamentary procedure. I therefore predict that the Members of the Slovenian National Party will support the proposal for a President of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-10-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u5	Thank you. Anyone else please? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. In accordance with Rule 244 of the Rules of Procedure, the vote for the President of the National Assembly is secret, so that we must elect a committee to run the vote. In accordance with Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret ballot shall be held by the President, with the assistance of the Secretary-General of the State Assembly and the four Members elected by the State Assembly on a proposal from the President. The chairman did not have any proposals, so representatives of the parliamentary groups submitted proposals for members of the commission, namely: LDS - Rudolf Moge, SDS - Branko Kelemina, ZLSD - Aurelio Juri, SLS and SKD - Franci Rokavec. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Who wants to comment on this, or who opposes it? [[No, no, ……]] If not, I will put to the vote a proposal for such a composition of the Commission. I ask Members and Members to report their presence! [[83 plus two without a ticket, that's 85.]] We are now voting on the proposal that I have previously put forward and I ask that we vote on the composition of this Commission! I take it that the 77 Members voted in favour, and they voted in favour. In view of the outcome of the vote, I note that the Commission has been elected in the proposed composition. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 97 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Members shall be given their votes by each of them to the table of the President, giving their name and surname. The Member who assists the President in the exercise of the vote shall deliver the vote to the Member and the Secretary-General of the State Assembly shall indicate on behalf and surname of the Member in the list that the vote has been delivered to him. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". A candidate will be elected who will receive most of the votes of all Members, that is 46 or more. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 98 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, an unfulfilled ballot or a ballot, which is not completed in accordance with the instructions referred to above, shall be invalid. We will vote in this Chamber. I ask Members and Members to place the completed ballot in the ballot box on the table of the President. We'll start the vote in 15 minutes, it's 11:35, and it'll take up to 12:00. After the vote, I ask Members who will assist me in the vote to meet in room 117. We'll continue the meeting at 12.20. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 117, where we will take over the electoral material. I'm suspending the session for the time being.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-10-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u6	If Members and Members of Parliament are interested in the outcome of the elections, I will continue the meeting. Please report your presence! [[There are 77 plus 1 Members present.]] I find that the assembly is adjourned and I publish the outcome of the vote. I will read the minutes made by the committee in charge of the vote. Minutes on the outcome of the vote for the President of the National Assembly: The vote took place on Friday 10.11.2000 at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. 89 ballots were distributed, 89 ballots were delivered, 1 ballot was invalid, 88 votes were valid. 63 MPs voted in favour, and 25 in favour. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, I note that Mr Borut Pahor was elected President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]] I congratulate the President of the National Assembly, Mr Pahor, on his election and ask him to continue the meeting. President, I hope you'll guide her well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-10-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, let me sincerely thank you for your confidence in the election to this important position. I'll do my best. This election, of course, is considered an extraordinary honour, but especially as a great responsibility. I am fully aware of these responsibilities. It is my task, as the first of the same, that, together with you, we, along with you, allow the conditions for the democratic, quality and successful work of the Slovenian Parliament. I would like to place particular emphasis on the importance of political culture in this regard. Here we have been chosen from the people on the various client lists of Members and Members, who have different views on many things. They will, of course, fight in very difficult parliamentary discussions. It is only right that these differences show up. However, it is our common responsibility and responsibility to the country that we are trying, at least in the most important strategic decisions of the country, to allow national consensus to be made available to the best of our ability. Our interest is to work for the common good. Of this impression, the beliefs of the people of whom we were chosen to work for the common good, regardless of the differences between us, depend to the greatest extent on the reputation of this high house. The National Assembly will, of course, deal primarily and most with the legislative work, but, and it is not irrelevant, it was and will be the venue of the most important political debates in Slovenia. After all, I don't think any of us have made mistakes, especially at work like that. If these are normal mistakes, and they'll be at my work, I'm asking you in advance for an apology. What a conscious violation of the rules of procedure due to political motives would, of course, be extremely unacceptable in my position and, of course, I should not have any excuse for it. We begin, dear colleagues and colleagues, with a challenging one, but let us hope for the future of our country and people, a successful work. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-10-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u8	We are continuing to hold a meeting of the Assembly and are moving on to a debate and a vote on the proposals for the election of Vice-Presidents or Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. The proposals may be submitted by the Administrative Commission and by a group of at least 10 Members. I ask the President of the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission to present a proposal for candidates for the Vice-President of the National Assembly. Please, Mr. Cyril Pucko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-10-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u9	Mr. President, congratulations.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-10-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u10	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-10-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u11	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. The Commission for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs, at today's 1st meeting, concluded that six proposals had been submitted to the three vice-presidents of the National Assembly by the parliamentary groups. Following the discussion, representatives of the candidates withdrew three proposals, with the majority support expressed to all three other candidates, the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission decided to propose them for three Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly: Mr Michael Brejc, Mr Anton Delak and Mrs Irmo Pavlinič-Krebs. In this regard, I propose, on behalf of the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission, on the basis of the third indent of Article 132(1) and Article 112(1) and Article 244(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly for Candidates for the Three Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the following Member and Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia: Mr Michael Brejc, Mr Anton Delak and Mrs Irmo Pavlinič-Krebs, listed in alphabetical order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-10-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u12	Thank you very much, colleague Mr. Pucko. In view of the fact that, in accordance with Article 244 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a group of at least ten Members may also propose to the Vice-President, do I wish to determine whether any additional proposal has been tabled? [[No, no, ……]] I'm opening a debate on the report. Anybody want a word? I guess not. In this respect, I conclude the debate. In accordance with Rule 244 of the Rules of Procedure, the vote for the Vice-President of the National Assembly is secret, and we must therefore elect a committee to run the vote. In accordance with Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret ballot shall be held by the Presidents-in-Office, with the assistance of the Secretary-General of the State Assembly and the four Members elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the President. I propose the following members of the electoral commission: colleagues Rudolf Moge, Branko Kelemina, Aurelio Juri and Franci Rokavec; I am also a member of this commission as Chairman. Does anyone object? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-10-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u13	If you don't mind, since I've missed my discussion with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, I'd like to make a call. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-10-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u14	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-10-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u15	as an explanation of the voice. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-10-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u16	Impossible, this is a secret vote and there is no explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-10-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u17	Thank you for the explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-10-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u18	Thank you very much. I am putting the motion for such a composition of the electoral commission to a vote. I ask Members and Members to report their presence. 85 Members and Members are present. We're voting on the proposal. [[The vote was 77.]] [[Against two.]] In view of the outcome of the vote, I note that the Commission has been elected in the proposed composition. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 97 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, three votes will be delivered to Members and Members by each of them to the table of the President and by their name and surname. The Member who assists the President in the exercise of the vote shall deliver the vote to the Member of the Parliament and the Secretary-General of the State Assembly shall indicate on behalf and surname of the Member in the list that the votes have been delivered to him. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". The candidate who will receive most of the votes of all Members will be elected, that is 46 or more. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 98 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, an unfulfilled ballot or a ballot, which is not completed in accordance with the instructions referred to above, shall be invalid. We will vote in this Chamber. I ask Members and Members to submit the completed votes to the voting box, which will be on the table of the President. The vote will begin in 15 minutes, which is ten to one hour and will last up to one hour and 10 minutes. After the vote, I ask Members who will assist me in the vote to meet in room 117. We'll continue the session at half past two. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask Members who will assist me in the vote to report to room 117 in 15 minutes, where we will take over the voting material. You can do it right away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-10-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u19	Dear colleagues, we continue the meeting. I ask Members to report their presence in the Chamber. I note that 77 Members and Members are present, that the assembly is concluded and that I can publish the outcome of the vote. Minutes on the outcome of the vote for the Vice-President of the National Assembly: The vote took place on Friday, 10 November 2000, at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The vote on the candidate, Dr. Michael Brace. 87 ballots were distributed, 87 ballots were delivered, 3 votes invalid, 84 votes valid. The "yes" was voted by 58 Members, "against" by 26 Members. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, I note that Dr. Michael Brejc was elected Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]] The vote on the candidate, Mr. Anton Delak. 87 ballots were distributed, 87 ballots were delivered, 1 ballot was invalid, 86 votes valid. 61 MEPs voted in favour, and 25 in favour. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, I note that Anton Delak was elected Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]] The vote on candidate Irma Pavlinič Krebs. 87 ballots were distributed, 87 votes were cast, 2 votes invalid, 85 votes valid. 68 MEPs voted in favour and 17 in favour. [[Let's hear it.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, I note that Irma Pavlinič Krebs was elected Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I congratulate my fellow Member, Vice-President of the National Assembly, and both Vice-Presidents. I invite them, if that is what they want, and if the Vice-President wishes to do so, to brief the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Please, Mr. Anton Delak, Vice-President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-10-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u20	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Thank you so much for trusting me. I will repeat what Mr President of the National Assembly has already said, because at present I have nothing else to say. I feel a great honor to have been elected, and I am also aware of the responsibility. Given that I already have some experience from my previous mandate, I hope to be able to carry them out successfully. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-10-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u21	Madam Vice President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-10-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u22	Dear Members and honourable Members! In short, I hope that we will be able to address "respected colleague and respected colleagues" as soon as we get to know each other better. Thank you so much for the trust you gave me today. In particular, I would like to point out that, as it appears, in the College of the President of the National Assembly, I will be the only representative of the women's sex and, with your cooperation, I think that I will represent our species well. Thank you very much again. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-10-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u23	We're sure of that. Thank you very much. Dr Miha Brejc, Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-10-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u24	Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you so much for your vote, thank you so much for your election. Well, I'm going to be representing a minority in the College of Presidents of the National Assembly, and I'm going to try to make this minority hear. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-10-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u25	Thank you. We're moving to five. It's the election of the working bodies of the national council. Under this item of the agenda, the assembly will consider the proposal for a decree establishing a committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for internal policy submitted to the assembly by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? Please, my friend, Mr. Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-10-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to briefly present what the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission has been able to prepare and submit to you in the past week in connection with the creation of the working bodies of the National Assembly in order to try to accept this today. A number of activities have been carried out to prepare a proposal for the establishment and formulation of a proposal for the composition of the working bodies of the National Assembly by today. Thus, at the Commission's meeting, we identified the number of working bodies of the National Assembly and the way in which they were composed. This was based on experience in the work of the National Assembly in the past mandate periods and in the practice of other parliaments in order to decide on certain substantive links in determining the number of working bodies and such a numerical composition, which, taking into account the business principles relating to their composition, nevertheless ensures their greater operationalisation. During the past week, coordination took place at the level of the leaders of the parliamentary groups, desiring to complete the establishment and composition of the working bodies as soon as possible. To this day, the leaders of the parliamentary groups have done extensive work. For objective reasons, the coordination could not be fully completed and will continue in the coming week. On the basis of the work already done, we have prepared a proposal for today's meeting to set up one working body, namely the decision to set up an internal policy committee. This is made up of business definitions and consists of the following parity: it has a President, three Vice-Presidents and 17 members, as agreed by the leaders of the Liberal Democrats of Slovenia, three Vice-Presidents belong to the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, the Group of the United List of Social Democrats and the SLS+SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party, and the other 17 members according to the following key: Liberal Democracy of Slovenia 8 members, the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia 2 members, the United List of Social Democrats 1 member, the SLS+SKD Slovenian People's Party 1 member and all other members, namely, the New Slovenia, the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, the Slovenian National Party, the Party of the Young Slovenian Members of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities. For elections, appointments and administrative matters, the Commission is proposing to the National Assembly that this Decision establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Internal Policy at today's meeting should be adopted and this item should be concluded at the same time as the agenda so that the Commission will try to draw up decisions on the establishment of other working bodies by the next meeting of the National Assembly and submit them to the National Assembly for admission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-10-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I guess not. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. No one signed up for the word. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a vote. I'm picking up the conundrum! [[81 Members and Members are present.]] We're voting! The "yes" was voted by 78 Members and Members, two of whom were "against". I note that the proposed decision is fully adopted. Thus, we have decided on one of the committees, and the other working bodies will be decided by the State Assembly at one of the following meetings. I therefore propose to the National Assembly that it vote on this proposal on the basis of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure. I'm picking up the conundrum! [[78 present.]] We're voting. [[The vote was 75.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that we have also adopted this decision. Before we break up for today, at the end of the first meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, allow me to express once again my public thanks to Dr. Jožet Bernik, who led the meeting or meeting of the National Assembly until the election of the new leadership. Once again, congratulations to the elected. However, to all of us, of course, I want us to work well and successfully in this mandate. I want a nice weekend and good-bye.
