ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u1	We continue the session and please enter the hall! Dear Members and Members! I wish everyone a nice day, with the desire to work very productively and to conclude the meeting today. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members - please let us calm down a bit: Matjaž Švagan for the beginning of the session, Rudolf Može from 11.30 a.m. on, Geza Juban for the morning part of the session and only Bevk. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall! Please raise your hands to Members who do not have cards. I see there's a large number of these. Onion, Trofenic Moment, please. I see some have brought cards. Once again, we find out the presence! [[56 present, plus onion, trofenic, Lavrinc, Merlo, that's plus four.]] Therefore, 60 Members are present. I invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting and welcome everyone. Today's continuation of the 3rd extraordinary session will begin with the hearing yesterday suspended 16. Agenda items, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on asylum, and then we will move on to the consideration of the remaining items on the agenda. As you recall, the words were given to Members of Parliament and Members. There were no written reports. But I did record a replica of Mr Jerovsk. I give him my word. Please, let's calm down in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u2	Yes, thank you very much again. Nice greetings to all your friends and friends. I must say that I am very pleased with the calls and proposals for conclusions announced yesterday by Mr Suklje. In fact, a person wonders and listens if it is possible for the same party to come from such a different tone. Mr Suklje appealed to take a decision to improve the material possibilities for police and police action in the border area and to pay overtime as well. In fact, the overtime stems from the fact that the Slovenian police are too weak to protect the Slovenian border according to the Schengen conclusions. This is exactly what the previous government has done and has therefore received immediately after the assumption of the function of Mr Bandl, the Secretary-General of the Government and the Chief of Staff, who is also obviously a very successful human resources commission, which, on a daily basis, is working with extremely harsh criticisms and references to non-truths and demagogies by Mr Bandlje, because she has hired police officers to protect the border in accordance with the Schengen criteria. I call on Mr Sukljet, as well as the Committee's decision to ensure that the Government provides adequate material and human resources conditions without delay and takes appropriate measures to effectively protect the border with the Republic of Croatia, this additional decision and this call by Mr Sukljet, I understand as an appeal that the current government does not destroy everything that has already been successfully launched by the previous government. I know that there are strong "power" within LDS and that colleagues need this help from here as well. What Mr Bandelj has been doing lately, in fact, looks like a metaphor, like a 'neronian behavior'. It literally gloats at it from some vendetta, demolishes everything good has been done in the previous government, and enjoys watching it burn. I am pleased that such important members, members of liberal democracy, including Mr Suklje, who will probably soon become an even more important and responsible member of this ruling coalition, to stand up for this or to have some sense of responsibility and to essentially call for us to somehow save Mr Drnovsk from the actions of Mr Bandlje.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd like to apologize first for that creaking voice. Yesterday I was with my fellow Members in prestigious parliamentary apartments visiting Kotnikova. And since there was water running in one of the apartments from the electric daycare centers, we went to another, where, of course, it wasn't central. So much "a propo" prestige. Now I would say this to Mr Jerovšek and everyone else. The difference is getting rich and we're aware of it in LDS, and we're looking after it. Sam, let's just say, the proposal to make a decision here to impose on the government to pay off the unpaid overtime is not going to be supported. Why not? Because I think such a decision would have brought our country back eight years ago when we had a congregation and an executive council here as the executive body of this congregation. Now I have the government. The word government does not come from the name of government but from the concept of government. That's the first reason. The second reason, however, is that Mr Petan, on the Committee on Internal Policy, has taken very well what some debaters have highlighted, drawn up in a proposal for a decision which, for my understanding, is comprehensive, contains all that was desired, desired, in some way suggested, and will be entirely sufficient for the Government to address the decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give my word to Ambassador Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u6	Thank you, Vice President. It's a very short debate. I will support the bill and the Committee's additional decision. But I would like to draw attention to another dimension that has not been exposed to this topic. This is a broader dimension of the problem of asylum, which extends also to foreign policy and which our foreign policy and our diplomacy, when we identify the problems and how we should tackle them, plays a more active role in the wider international coordination of the policy of controlling the phenomenon of emigration. Thus, this aspect is not negligible. My colleague Petan said yesterday that we should sometimes go to the origins of this problem. And of course, the sources aren't on our border, the sources are even longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Please. Mr. Cuckoo has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u8	With regard to this proposal, I must say that the cause of the sad story of the refugees who are on the rise is, of course, to seek in the political and economic conditions of the countries from which these unfortunates come. We have no influence on this cause. And their problem becomes our problem when they cross the state border. Their tragedy becomes our tragedy when smugglers from the airtightly closed containers of the dead plunge them into the trenches. Yesterday, a government representative had already mentioned that there would be a need and everything needed to be done to address the problem of the growing influx of refugees in an integrated manner. But he has forgotten something vital that I would like to point out today. Strengthened police border control and more intensive criminal activity are not enough, as our judiciary does not follow. If we catch heavy fish in a smuggling net, we bring them to court, allowing them to swim peacefully in foreign free waters from house arrest with all their seized assets. We also seem to have become "soft" for the smuggling of drugs and people because of the inefficient judiciary and extremely mild criminal policy. Actually, "soft" for all organized crime. Since the proposed amendments to the Asylum Act are good, I will support them, although it will be necessary to complete the whole asylum law and any other law as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Reploco has a member of the jury.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u10	Thank you. I object to my colleague Tsukati in the sense that, of course, with regard to the very problem of asylum, our role begins when they enter, when asylum seekers enter our country. Look, when I point out foreign policy, I also mean that, of course, a large part of the countries are calling for sovereigns to write off their debts to poor countries. It is also one move that serves to make this phenomenon more manageable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Please. Member Lavrinc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u12	Thank you very much. I fully agree with most of Mr Cuckati's criticism, but I must say something in their defense, or say what we have cooked here alone. On a proposal from the profession, it is now in our country that, after the Constitutional Court has decided that the second indent of Article 40(2) is no longer in force, the decision of the Administrative Court is not the last incest. Remember that at the time, we also discussed how we now have a practical approach to three natives and to a constitutional court or to a constitutional court. That is why, of course, this path is too long and I see the money of this law also in this, so in a coalition of forces of the entire legal order, which could establish that, not like now, we will only provide for the forced residence of these refugees, but also to carry out all the appropriate procedures, simplify them, modernise them if you want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u13	Thank you very much. I give my word to Ambassador Jerovska.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u14	Thank you very much. While we are talking about what needs to be supported with regard to the judiciary and the police, I think that it should also be said that, at this point in time, there is also a need to support the efforts or expectations of the public that the Ministry of Internal Affairs would not actually be through the Human Resources Commission or the management of the Human Resources Commission would not have brought down the entire police summit. Just yesterday, it turned out that it was obvious from the Human Resources Commission that efforts were made to put the Secretary of State in charge of the police, who, in a sense, deserved to be in Labovic's case, and all that was [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u15	Just for a moment; do you think this is part of the topic?
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u16	Yeah, yeah. Yes, it is. Last night, we heard that, at the last minute, Minister Bohinc gave up such a proposal that the police would actually be put in charge of the police and the top of the ministry, people who had already made a significant contribution in the past that those who should be subject to the courts could withdraw, even in the latter case, even in connection with the Shubic case. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u17	You know what, respectable colleague? It has nothing to do with the subject that we are dealing with. She doesn't have one. She doesn't have one.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u18	Yeah, he's got it. You may not understand, but [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u19	I'm gonna have to interrupt. [[...]] You're talking about things that have nothing to do with the subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u20	Mr Šuklje is yesterday to support - yes, someone is shutting me out - to support her in her efforts, to make this border control, and also to support somehow, so that the courts can be more effective, and this is reflected significantly through human resources policy. I want to give my support that in fact what it is, the successful police will also remain in the next term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u21	Thank you very much. I give my word to Ambassador Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u22	Thank you very much. I have taken these words from Mr Jerovská more than a minute or a five-minute European propaganda message for the current police force at the top, and it really has nothing to do with what we are talking about. Therefore, I suggest that the President warn the Member in such a case, and if the Member insists that it has a connection, he interprets it, as the Rules of Procedure tell him, the Rules of Procedure and all of us are asked whether he is right. We will vote, and in such a case, I think the word must be taken. In fact, I can start now with a problem that I see that the chief police officer, who is the first law enforcement officer in this country, does not respect the decision of the government. What happened, let's say, with positive consequences in Primorska. However, this is an insubordination that a civil servant must never show, and let it be such a "baby" conclusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Of course I'll follow the rules of procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I do not know how he voted on this decision of the Internal Policy Committee signed by Mr Maximilian Lavrinc. However, this Decision states that it shall be ensured without delay by the Government in order to ensure adequate staffing conditions. In fact, this is literally whether the staffing conditions at the Ministry of the Interior will be such as to allow the border to be monitored so that those who organise these transports and smuggle refugees will not have the protection of the police or the police will fight them. So far, she's been fighting them for the last few months. Some human resources measures, and all that is within the staff commission, these cleaning at the ministries - for example - at the economic ministries, even the chauffeur is no longer in line. This is going the other way. In this case, we'll hear in a short time that some Lončarič will flee the country again, let him go, and I don't know if Mr Maximilian Lavrinc, what he signs, doesn't even know what he signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I'm saying goodbye. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u26	A brief replica to my colleague Jerovska. I don't have any more post-op problems, Mr Jerovšek, so I know what I'm signing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I propose that we stop this discussion. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a second reading - this is a debate, and we are deciding on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the discussion and vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. There are 64 Members and Members plus one, Mr Onbulj. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We'll have a debate, please! [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u28	Mr President, we have pressed "against" twice here, and "against" has been marked only once. Please take a look at these machines.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u29	I'm taking a ten-minute break so the technical service can review the voting devices. We'll continue the meeting at 10.40.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u30	I ask the Members and Members to occupy their seats in the Chamber. I ask Members of Parliament and Members to calm down a little. I'm asking for peace in the hall! Brief information: The services responsible for the voting apparatus in the National Assembly have been reviewed and found that, unfortunately, there was no error. I'm informing everyone present that in ten minutes they can get the discharges and check on the basis of them to see if the voting device worked normally. Thank you very much. We're picking up a presence at the hall. There are 56 Members and Members present. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 19.12.2000. I ask Members to take this review of the amendments tabled from the documentation. I am putting an amendment to Article A1 into the debate. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. I am putting to the vote an amendment to Article A1. 62 Members and Members are present. We voted A1. We vote on the amendment to Article A1. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting an amendment to Article 1 into the debate. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking for peace. Since no one wants to say another word, we're going to make a decision. 69 Members and Members are present. Let us vote on the amendment to Article 1. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. I am putting an amendment to Article 2. The proposer is the government of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] 66 Members and Members are present. Let us vote on the amendment to Article 2. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that the amendment has been adopted, paragraph 2 is deleted. I am also putting forward a third paragraph to which no amendment has been tabled. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] There are 67 Members and Members present. Let's vote on Article 3. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it that Article 3 has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Does anyone want to discuss the title of the law? Because he doesn't want to, we're going to the vote. There are 72 Members and Members present. Let's vote on the title of the law. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Please, if qualified applicants submit amendments to do so immediately. Before that, I ask if anyone wants to discuss the marriage proposal in its entirety. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a debate on the law. So they don't want to discuss it. I'm asking if the law is consistent. I've got a yes. That is why we are moving to a full legislative vote. There are 68 Members and Members present. Let us vote on the bill as a whole. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposal for a law has been fully adopted. We have three additional conclusions. The first decision is proposed by the Internal Policy Committee. You have received it in writing and is listed in the report of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on asylum. Another similar proposal proposed by Mr Suklje, I hope that you have received it, or I will read it: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia pay special attention to the budgetary consumer, the Ministry of the Interior, in preparing the 2001 budget, by providing additional funds for the material and technical equipment of the police to exercise effective border control." The third additional decision is proposed by Mr Suklje in the following content: "The National Assembly proposes to the Ministry of the Interior to ensure payment of unpaid overtime to police and police officers before the end of 2000." The first two proposed decisions shall be excluded. Please, does anyone want to discuss this? Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u31	Thank you very much. In the spirit of what Mr Suklje has already proposed, I would also like to propose an additional decision that the National Assembly would call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia not to destroy and prevent, in recent times, the very successful police work in the fight against fugitive smugglers.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u32	Mr Jerovšek, the matter seems to be far from serious and therefore I will not put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u33	I'm protesting! I'm protesting!
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u34	You don't have a word. Mr. Trophynik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u35	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to ask you first to explain what the first two conclusions are and why they are being excluded. We have proposed an additional decision, drawn up or taken by the Committee on Internal Policy, together with my colleague, Mr Petan. I read it so wide that it also covers the other two, and it is the other way around, because it is about providing immediate personnel and material conditions, it says, also pays and also enough cops. I propose this because I come from an area where most of the refugees are on the southern border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u36	Thank you very much. The Member of Parliament supports your opinion. If a decision or a proposal is taken by the Committee, then we will not consider a second decision. Here you go, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u37	Mr President, I strongly protest that [[...]] [[The microphone was off.]] Please apologize and give my decision, which I have drawn up, on an equal footing. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u38	Mr Member, I must remind you of something that you have not done: you have not presented a decision in writing at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u39	In a quick procedure it is possible to make oral conclusions; let them teach you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u40	Please submit it. So we don't waste time. [[...]] [[It's a mutual conversation.]] Thank you. We could still sign that. [[...]] [[Talking to each other and laughing.]] Thank you. [[...]] Who wants to discuss the first additional decision? Because no one wants to, let's find out where we are! There are 68 Members and Members present. Let us vote on the proposed additional decision. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that an additional decision has been taken. Mr. Shuklje withdraws his first additional decision. We are voting on Mr Suklet's second additional decision. I will read it again: "The National Assembly proposes to the Ministry of the Interior that before the end of 2000, it will ensure payment of unpaid overtime to police and police officers." Anybody want to talk? Because he doesn't want to, let's find out where he is! 62 Members and Members are present. Let us vote on the proposed additional decision. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it that an additional decision has been taken. Mr Jerovska's additional conclusion is that it will be a little difficult for me to read. Not because the problem is difficult, but because it's very badly written. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u41	I agree.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u42	"The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia not to destroy and prevent, in recent times, the very successful police work in the fight against fugitive smugglers." Anybody want to talk? Mr. Lavrinc, then Mr. Peterle. I give my word to Mr. Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u43	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm not going to back this decision. There's more than one reason. Just like I didn't support the last one. Obviously, some of you cannot say good - bye to the old system when we had a three - house congregation and an executive council because the congregation was involved in everything, and the executive council was merely an enforcer. Now we have a government, gentlemen, we're eight years later. That's the first one. Second. If I had any doubt, I would have said, to some irregular police exchange, I would have gone in a different way, not to some conclusion in the Asylum Act, which has nothing to do with the reality. It is a political one or, if you want, a demagogic proposal for a decision and an EPP for a current structure that is currently leading the Slovenian police. For me, it's totally out of touch, really out of touch. The credits the Slovenian police have and the successes they have recently reaped are not the fruit of one piece, the work of an individual, but are the fruit of all those little cops if you want, who work hard and drag them through the bushes and guard our borders, their bosses and their biggest bosses. So I'm going to say, I think it's cynicism in some way, underestimating the work of ordinary cops.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mr. Peterle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! I will support this proposal by proposing a supplement to add the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because it is surprising that similar things are happening without any media attention. For the first time, the legitimate and legal decisions taken by the previous government are being undermined by the fact that two general consuls, one of them has already received an aggressor of the host country, simply to call off the decision or change the decision for the people who have made all the professional preparations and are also professionally qualified for these jobs. It is said that only the political criteria or criteria of ours are reintroduced [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u46	Mr. Peterle, I need to interrupt. This has nothing to do with the subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u47	How's that?
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u48	With asylum. I'm sorry. I have to stop you. Anybody else want to discuss this?
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u49	Mr President, you asked if anyone wanted to discuss the proposal for a decision. I propose that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs be added to the cleaning topic. And as for what Mr Lavrinc said, I'd say the following. Why has this police been so successful? It is certainly true that it is not only for the sake of leadership, but for the government that ruled until December, it has allowed the police to do their job, according to the findings it has had. For a long time, there have been so many cases that there have not been so many actions. For the first time in his career, one of the Secretary of State was arrested, if that's what we call it. We fear that the matter will go back into political waters and only some will be hunted. Now the police could work politically unhindered, and they would like to continue doing so.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u50	Mr. Lavrinc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u51	Thank you very much for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, I think it was a miracle government. In fact, anyone who knows police work knows that it is a long time, that it is a longer process, so we have finally passed laws allowing police officers and prosecutors to run procedures more closely now, more closely, to use specific methods and means that produce fruit. The fruit is arrests, which you witness practically every day. That's not the fruit of a two-month job. Breaking some major heroin bond, breaking the bonds of people who traded with living people, refugees - such breakdowns are the product of years of work. Therefore, "but the shoes belong to the hooves," sang Prešeren. And I'm not the one in this case because I've tried this job myself, as my first job in college.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u53	Mr Lavrinc, he mentioned in a previous line that he no longer has post-operative problems. But I'm afraid the surgery didn't work out completely because it looks like they couldn't even his spine to the ground.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u54	Please don't insult me.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u55	Look, what Mr. Lavrinc is. [[...]] [[It's not on tape.]] and that it depends on the success of the course is dependent on the police in the field. [[...]] [[...]] But it depends on the spirit of the police. In fact - it is a pity that Mr Suklet is not here - Mr Suklje also witnessed the atmosphere when he came to the Ministry as a follow-up to Mr Bandlja. Because there was a terrible atmosphere there, the police testified. Politicalisation, mistrust within the Ministry and in such an atmosphere could not be done. Then there has been an improvement and it is important that we maintain this improvement.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u56	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u57	And how it depends on the atmosphere at the top of the police force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr Partlič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u59	I'd have a little replica. When we move into the new hall in a few days, it seems to me that it might be a little good to bring along some new manners. It seems to me that it was already in its previous term, and even in its previous term, it certainly did not have a high reputation for the State Assembly after all the public surveys. The way the debate is also about the decision just confirms me. First, I would say that one of the basic principles of such a discussion is respect for the one who leads. If we don't like the way a chair is running, I think that's why the instruments are meant to say that. But there's no reason to scream, make comments, and break authority. That's how we take credibility. That's the first time. Another time. A little funny, but certainly not insulting. It is said at home that there is some truth in every joke, and there will be some truth in this comment. I'm one of those people who hasn't spoken so publicly against a government that isn't anymore, against the previous government, maybe I've had a bit of a laugh. Now I think that it should finally start to be praised, and perhaps the discussion on this is appropriate. Above all, Bajuk’s government should be praised for stopping bragging about what they have done. I think someone else has to make an assessment that it's a little strange that you keep telling us that things have started now. Okay. I agree, but let's wait for someone else to say it. However, the topic that was to be added to this decision by the foreign ministry, as well as the decision made by colleague Jože Jerovšek, seems to me that in the context of this law it is absolutely "pasha". If this is, if it is to be noted, and I agree that it is necessary, there will therefore be other agenda items, initiatives and questions will be required, a specific agenda item on human resources problems may be required, not to interfere with each law. For this reason, it seems to me that the proposal is not the happiest, but it is legitimate. And I won't support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Peterle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Look, they're coming back on the day of the words no one said. Nobody said it all started under Bajuk's government. As far as the police are concerned, we know that it's been researched, followed, listened, compared and so on. All I'm saying is that the Bajuk government has allowed the police to complete the procedures. Finally, she caught someone, and before that, we knew much or knew much, but there were no conclusions. At the same time, I would also say that, of course, not much has been done yet, we will see whether things will go as well as property, because they have not yet condemned anyone, or whether they will end up with everything that the police can do on their own salary at that time, or whether this will end as well. We do know, however, that with a reckless change in staff and with the politicization of the police, all of the work of the police is certainly not about the work of one, but it is important how and who is leading this matter that all of this can be undermined by one move and there will be no effective step against corruption for a long time. The Bajuk government has taken these steps, or has not politically interfered with the work of the police, and the police have finally been able to step on corruption. But it is bad in this country and the country that, of course, double criteria apply when they work one, are clean when others do, is reason, as they suggest. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u62	Mr. Peterle, I'm sorry! I have to take your word for it because it's not in the context of the asylum law. Thank you very much. Mr. Jakic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u63	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. In a youthful slang, they'd say it's a bull shit. Of course, the word does not belong in this Chamber, nor does it belong to a decision, but in particular not to the terminology used by Mr Jerovšek. I must say, not that I am disappointed, but very angry that the use of terminology or personal disqualification on some important subject is allowed. Mr Jerovšek's statement that a colleague of Lavrinsk has failed to operate on his spine is one of the disqualifications used by Jerovšek's men. Indeed, such disqualifications have also been practiced in a pre-election campaign, when they tried to disqualify the Prime Minister and our party's president, that he was sick to death and that he would die. Of course, you don't make fun of other things like that. What is more, such words are spoken in front of the speaker’s stage or in front of the microphone of the highest legislative authority? That is why I propose, Mr Vice-President, that you respond to any such usurpation by a public speaker in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. What Mr Jerovšek did to my colleague Max Lavrinc was wrong, even if he disagreed with him or if he had a different opinion; he could argue with every word he said, but not with an operation that had been carried out by his colleague Lavrinc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, allow me to say a few words for myself. You know today's session is kind of planned by 1300 hours. I'm not hindering anyone from being able to debate, anyone can debate, you have the opportunity, just not, please, once it's nearly 1300 hours, to start again, and to discuss that some points will not come on the agenda, that, I don't know, some time delay and so on, because I have to say that the meeting will take place until all the points go through. [[The indignation from the bench.]] Yeah, I'm so sorry! We are Members of the National Assembly, of course we are paid to sit in the National Assembly and we will have to do so properly. I suggest that those of you who have already volunteered withdraw your debates for the reasons I have said. Well, some wave that no. I'll give everyone a word. The word has Mr. Ašić - cancels [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u65	Who--who said that? Who said that?
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u66	Excuse me! It looked like you were giving up.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u67	What did Mr Jerovšek give up? Well, he didn't give up, then I won't either. Okay. Look. This debate that we have just had actually proves something. No, I had a replica, I'm sorry, it was a long time ago. No, replica, he made a little mistake. So this debate proves that we have a good police force in Slovenia, which is very independent of who rules. This is also demonstrated by the fact that as soon as the elections took place, when we received the new government and the new police minister, Slovenian police solved the problem in Prlekia, when they cut a Gordija knot with a well-known group dealing with human trafficking. They also discovered yesterday what the previous government couldn't find, the murder in Ljutmore, which was very resounding. I want to point out that we're really talking nonsense about what some government has done in the area. Nothing happens at night, and of course I am sure that this government has nothing to do with the success of the police in recent days, but that the correctness and good work of the police are primarily for these successes. Let us stop boasting once about how they could have been free within six months and resolved some serious problems overnight. Because that is not true, as it is not true that the police, as soon as the new government arrived, were able to resolve the problems I was talking about. Let us stop this debate, take a decision and give recognition to the Slovenian police, recommending that this is how it works in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. All credit goes to the Slovenian police, who's done a lot of things. I think she may have achieved some success in the past. But there have also been some setbacks, for a few people have fled across the border or unknown to them, although this should not have happened. Well, another worse thing happened to Slovenian cops. Some, however, do not take it as well as other police officers. In view of the fact that some police officers in Cyprus did not comply with the requirements of the Slovenian government to patrol the sovereign Slovenian territory on the left side of Draganje. It's the same betrayal. In such a case, we may also think that some Slovenian police officers, even if it were to defend the country, would say, "no, we will not defend the country, we will do it our way". I think that such cops need to be - on the other hand, if we reward some of them, which is right - we need to put the duck cops before the courts for treason or failure to protect the integrity of Slovenian territory and simply throw them on the road. Then there's something else. Replica to Mr. Jakich. In fact, I would ask him to speak the Slovenian language or to translate those words that he has said so that we know what this is about. And there's something else I'd like to warn him about. Well done, Mr Drnovšk, and I do not wish him any harm, but Mr Drnovšek will also die. Mr. Jakič, when I studied pharmacology, we know that every human being dies, maybe it's not in the Faculty of Philosophy.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Only if you let me, it's not a replica. On the contrary, I think that Mr Max Lavrinc understands very well and I also believe because we have a lot of these word games between us. He's giving it back to me, and I'm willing to accept it. However, if Mr Jakič does not understand the metaphor, I must apologize to Max Lavrinz that it was said here, because it was not meant in the health sense that he did not want the operation to succeed. He's just been playing himself before, saying he doesn't have post-op problems. That wouldn't be the case if we didn't understand the word play. It was complete in terms of wordplay and I know Max understands it and there's a lot of people here. But everyone doesn't understand, and if anyone understood it as personal, then in that part, I'm absolutely sorry. I don't think Max took it personally, probably. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate and give the proposed Trofenik, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u73	Thank you for your word. I wouldn't say anything, but I must say that I am very disappointed at what this debate about asylum and asylum-related issues has become. I understand the political problems and what the proponents and those who oppose expression on this occasion wanted. But I don't know if it's direct television. I'm very embarrassed, and even if it's not, in front of the cops and in front of the citizens who live, let me even, in that area, because I come from an area where 80% of the refugees are across the southern border. Where last year there were fewer than 100 a month, and this year there are 1,500 cases per month, and I allow myself to qualify that all three governments in power this year have not done enough to provide the police with the conditions for adequate work. If the frequency has increased 15 times, the police station in Ormož received 7 additional police officers available this year. 1500 refugees are processed, as they say in the police language, and it takes about 20 minutes to process a person, work in the garages of a police station, with no protective means, and without much more. I personally object to such decisions as we have adopted here today, although they are practical that the National Assembly undertakes someone to pay overtime, which is logical in itself if he has instructed a civil servant to work so that he must pay it. That is why, of course, I once again regret the debate because it is not right, given the conditions of work and the threats to the population. Let me just say that the number of refugees in the month is twice as high as the number of people in the area at risk feel threatened, and I hope you know that the first victims have fallen this week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Replica, please, Mr. Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Look, I understand Mr Trofenik, who spoke before me, but in the epilogue of truth, I would also agree that there was much too little to do with the problems at the border, but for years and years the Eastern Border project has not been defined, which we need to regulate if we are to come to the European Union in accordance with our wishes. The Bajuk government defined this project, approved people and approved money for it and was, of course, criticised. And today it is said that there were 1,500 jobs. There were, of course, some 100 of them along these lines, the cops we need to make this line look like. If this project is not there and I wonder why the previous authorities have not done so, the date we are dreaming of is completely irrelevant. Until the eastern border is established, there will be nothing with the European Union. And we're just a little bit different here, and one of them went into projects, and one of them didn't.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u77	Thank you very much. A replica of Mr. Peterlet. Mr Peterle said that the regulation of the eastern border is an obligation for the European Union. That's not true. The European Union wants to take Cyprus into its wing right away, but they don't have it yesterday. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u78	Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u79	Yes, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u80	Your replica has nothing to do with the asylum law. I have to take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u81	Mr President, if you don't understand, let me say it to the end, and you'll finally understand what I'm about to say.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u82	Yeah, but what am I gonna understand in the end if you talk for a quarter of an hour?
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u83	Yeah, listen, listen, Mr. Chairman, you'll understand in the end. In short, Cyprus is divided into two halves, even shooting at the border and Europe intends to take Cyprus in the first round in the EU. With us, however, we want to legalise the unregulated situation by means of a so-called little-border cooperation agreement between Slovenia and Croatia. In short, this isn't about this. And here is actually some very messy situation where you don't really know who's drinking, who's paying. If we ever wanted the Schengen border, there must be a Schengen border, because the Schengen border cannot be an agreement on small-border cooperation between the two countries, which have so-called open crossings on each street, road, road or village roads. That's why I don't agree. However, I think that we should increase control at the border, which is also what Europe requires, which is what you all want, and on the other hand, we would open the crossings for the Croats. Why don't you let the government know what you want?
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate and put the proposed additional decision to the vote. There are 60 Members and Members present. Who is in favour of Mr Jerovsk's proposed additional decision? [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that no further decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 17. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on measures to speed up the recovery in areas affected by the beach and by the outbreak of HUDORNIK in the municipality of Boveč. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. President, Mr. Gerencher.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! At its 1st regular session, the Infrastructural Committee considered a proposal for a law on measures to accelerate recovery in areas affected by the beach and by the outbreak of the Predelica in the Municipality of Bovec, which was sent to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for treatment and acceptance following a rapid procedure by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In its consideration, the Committee had at its disposal the materials of the Government, the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the amendments of Ambassador Jožet Tanka, the proposals of the Mayor of the municipality of Bovec to supplement the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The mayor of the municipality of Bovec also took part in the meeting of the Committee. After a brief presentation of the bill by a government representative, the Minister for Environment and Space and representatives of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, we have addressed the adoption of this law and the measures resulting from it in general. In addition to the support given to this law, the debate highlighted the need for the rehabilitation of Prigorica pri Ribnica, which would protect us from flooding in this area. And, of course, for the safety of the people and the protection of their property. It was also pointed out that as a result of the abundance of rain, the Cerknica Lake had grown excessively. However, we have come to a conclusion or conclusion that these matters should not be brought into the law before us, but be resolved as a system law to remedy the consequences of natural disasters. The Committee also proposed and proposed that a representative from the affected area should also be included as a member of the expert committee, who could best and best participate in the resolution of the situation. The proposal was also made that, when discussing and deciding on the appropriateness of this law, an additional decision be taken to propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to keep us regularly informed and informed of the state of the beach and to undertake to receive this report at least once every three months. As I have already said, the mayor of the municipality of Bovec also participated in the work of the Committee, who thanked him for the sacrificing work of all the services that had so far participated in the actions in the areas affected by the beach. His wishes and hopes are that this law will be a great support for the next work. In view of the need to provide suitable material, he suggested that the stone for the buildings in the municipality of Bovec, which would be necessary for construction and similar matters, should be allowed to be taken away from the quality stone in the locations of Bavščica, Javoršek and Lepen. It also suggested that all providers of social security aid, i.e. donors intending to help the affected, should be exempt from all charges in 1999 and 2000. Following the general discussion, the Committee adopted the following conclusion: "The Committee supports the consideration and adoption of the proposal for a law on measures to accelerate the recovery in areas affected by the plasma and the outbreak of Predelica in the municipality of Bovec by rapid procedure." In the debate on the individual articles of the proposal, the Infrastructure and Environment Committee adopted the following amendments: Article 1, Article 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 and the amendment to the title of the law to be read, "the Law on Measures to Eliminate the Consequences of the Beach in the Municipality of Bovec and the Largest Beaches of the Republic of Slovenia since 15 October 2000". The Committee also discussed the proposal of the municipality of Bovec and the mayor and proposed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to give the opinion or position on the first paragraph of Article 2 to resolve the provision or appropriate material in the area of the municipality of Bovec by the end of this discussion. Well, as you received yesterday at the table, LDS Members' Groups, Consolidated Lists, SLS, SKD and DeSUS have already proposed an amendment for this article, this is Article 2, which would resolve this issue. The Committee also identified itself to the amendments tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and Ambassador Jožet Tanka. The Committee supported the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia by Articles 2, 4 and 7 and the amendments for a new Article 7a and a new Article 7b. However, he did not support Ambassador Jožet Tank's amendment to Article 3. The Committee did not define itself until the amendment of Mr Jožet Tank to Articles 1 to 2 and 5 and to the title of the law, since, with the adoption of the amendment of the Committee and the support of the amendments of the Government to this Article, these articles have become irrelevant. At the meeting, the representative of the proposed law announced the withdrawal of the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Articles 1 and 5 and to the title of the law, since the content of these amendments is summarised in the amendments to the Committee. Finally, the Committee adopted the following decision: "The Infrastructure and Environment Committee proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the proposal for a law on measures to accelerate recovery in areas affected by the plasma and by the outbreak of Predelica in the municipality of Bovec shall be adopted together with the amendments of the Committee and amendments supported by the Committee." And an additional conclusion: "The Infrastructure and Environment Committee shall propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to keep the Committee regularly, at least every three months, familiar with the field relationship and the measures taken to remedy the consequences of the beach of Stoža in the municipality of Bovec." Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u86	Thank you very much for the report. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mr Ivan Bozič has applied, and I ask him to come forward. I would like to ask that the other members of the Group apply.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My part of the debate on the law on measures to promote rehabilitation in areas affected by the beach and by the outbreak of the Locust Predelica in the Municipality of Bovec, the rapid procedure, will begin with praise, first of all, to the municipality of Bovec, all civil protection, firefighters, mountain rescue services, lobsters, health care, the government, the minister of environment and space, or to members of the ministry, and to the ministry of economic activities and other ministries involved in the resolution of the disaster, and to all citizens of the people, the inhabitants of our country who have provided assistance, including those who have given it outside our country. I must stress this in particular - and I would like this to be more published - the members of the National Assembly have decided on 17.11.2000, we have decided that everyone will contribute 10,000 tolars, and I think this is under-emphasized because we were the first to offer assistance. The second thing I'd say about the natural disasters of this valley, the Log under Mangart against Predeck. Over the past 90 years, many natural disasters have occurred in them, accidents for which they were completely innocent. The first world war - they were all displaced; the second world war - part of the Los Valley, the village of Strmec - all men were shot; the snow in 1952, which destroyed many houses, then fell over three and a half feet [three m] of snow in Bovsk; the 1976 earthquake, the second earthquake in 1998; and now the beach, in 2000, which carried a part of the village. These are natural disasters, to which, in our country and in Parliament as well as in the government, we now define this law, but we do not have a roofing law that solves all natural disasters and every time, every accident, we have to write a special law. It would be time for us to have a law on natural disasters. The incident in Logo under Mangarto must also be said: In Logo, people were affected, seven deaths and all displaced from the village, only six months later were expected to return. This is a terrible accident when you have to move out of your home of birth, out of the house that you made yourself, in which you reside, and your parents dwell, and you are bound to everything in the house and around the house. In doing so, I would also like to say that it is very unfortunate, unfortunate, because of the infrastructure that has been destroyed. The first day, there was no electricity. It is to be commended that the Soksa power plant, or Elektro Tolmin, was able to repair and repair the power grid on the first day. It was worse with the road connecting Bovec through Log under Mangart and through the border crossing to Trbiz. Only now is the Ponton Bridge being built in the village, and we hope that the bridge will soon be built under Mount Log under Mangart or the Mill. The road through Log is important, as I said, for Ložane, for all the Bočans, because there comes a lot of tourists or the main part of tourists who come skiing in Bovec and the ski resort on Kanin. But it's important to the roadways for our country. If it weren't important, the Romans wouldn't have it, Napoleon wouldn't have it, Austria wouldn't have it, Italy. Under the hill through the Rabelj Mine, the Italians rolled a tunnel after World War II, after which they went to work Ložana until a few years ago. And if we want Log to live under Mangart, this law really needs to be adopted, but it must also be said that in June of the second year we have to solve all natural disasters with us a little faster and that we really have a law on natural disasters, which would have enough money in the budget to be used by those in charge of the government and the ministries without even talking about where we're going to take anything. I must also commend the Ministry of Environment and Space, as well as the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, which so quickly drafted the law, addressed it and prepared it for today's adoption. Our SLS + SKD Slovenian People's Party will support the bill and thus help people affected by the accident. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u88	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Gerencher, LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u89	Thank you for your word. The LDS Group supports the proposal for a law on measures to address these consequences, which we are talking about today. We support the amendments of the committee and the government, together with the amendment that was tabled yesterday, relating to Article 2 and Article 7c. In view of this last article, Section 7c, we will ensure and follow the wishes of the people and the municipality of Bovec that the aid granted by various donors is not included in the tax base for the years 2000 and 2001. For these events in the event of this natural disaster in the congregation of Bovec, we also find in our parliamentary group that all the services, both locally and nationally, have been very effective. I would also like to commend the people of the affected area, who, despite severe hardships, were able to organize and act in accordance with their needs. Last but not least, I would like to recall the assessment of the Commander of the Fire Company of Logo under Mangart, who said that the progress of the work so far could not have been any different or better. In the debate on this law, however, we believe that we should begin to examine the law as soon as possible on the conditions and modalities for the use of State aid funds in dealing with the consequences of natural disasters already in the legislative procedure since 1997, and for the second reading, the government has submitted it already in April this year. For we need a system law that will solve the problem of the use of state aid resources, so that no natural disaster, unfortunately increasingly, will require the adoption of laws by swift procedure and that the aid can come more quickly to those who are most in need. So we also need a system law. However, in the process of adopting this law, the Government will have to resolve, inter alia, important issues: the boundaries between the tasks resulting from intervention and the tasks resulting from the rehabilitation, in order to make it clear where the powers of the authorities and the ministries responsible for intervention or rehabilitation are concerned; further define the powers and obligations of the local communities. In addition, it will be necessary to determine the method and composition of a group of experts proposing measures to the State Commission or to the Government. As has already been said, the LDS Group supports the adoption of this law by swift procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr Mamić, New Slovenia. Please, if the other Members' groups are still applying, if they wish to perform.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u91	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much for your words. I'd like to say hello to everyone who's here for my "debbie," that's what I'd call it. Of course, I would rather see that the hall is full or that everyone is present. I hope that in the end, even without much debate, we will all support this law together because they usually say that accidents bring people together. And we also saw this in Logo under Mangart, when our group went away - from our party we were four on the face of the city, we looked at and talked to these people - and it seems to me that this human contact is very, very important and positive, of course. In such cases, any such action is welcome. So, as I said before, our client supports it. I'd like to say a few more things, construction, I'll say, because I'm in this profession and I was very interested in this. Now we will decide things that we may not even know, and we do not know what actually happened, but we know that the accident was still ahead. This reptile - so that I can describe the situation a little bit more easily to imagine - has launched a few kilometers above Log village under Mangart. In front of him he first broke the bridge - at the time the Bridge Ticket, as he was told, was a few meters long - and today we need to make a new bridge on that part. Now it's a gathering, I think, about 40 meters wide and about 20 meters deep, and of course it requires a lot of money, expertise and so on. The bridge, which is right in the village and is already mounted, is much smaller; it is an iron, mounted bridge that is now in use, and it also links you to another part [[I don't know what it's called.]] . The second, the great bridge, which will now be large, because it was not before, must connect the area that is now cut off from the world, so that it comes from Log under Mangart to Predel, I don't know how many ten kilometers, I have to go across Italy and spend three hours to come, say, to my neighbor, so to speak. There is still a great danger, because the area that creeps with water, and when a certain amount of water is collected, the mass, the material that is dry, drinks with water, absorbs too much water and is formed as a cold lava, as it would call it, which then, of course, sinks into the valley, which is also quite steep, and then causes a disaster; it clears everything before itself, so that the banks of the river itself are completely white from one side and the other, where it was previously raised to water. And, of course, that still doesn't mean all the danger is gone, so that we can talk - God forbid this happens - maybe in a few months about things that need to be supported with no idea how much money, and we don't know how much money the state can give. So we have to be prepared for everything that's going to happen. So, in that part of the valley, the configuration of the terrain completely changed, and also you, where a few houses were buried, unfortunately also seven people, and the bottom of the stream, as I was told in civil protection, rose about 15 meters up. So there's a lot of material coming together. The danger is still great. Now that we talk all the time about this beach at Log under Mangart, we forget to mention the beach over Lokavec near Ajdovščina in the same set. I don't want anyone to say I'm a local patriot, but there are also very serious things going on. This reptile is four kilometers from my house, so you know that I know the thing, I went to check it out. There is also a floating beach, already moved something over a hundred meters and the greatest danger is, of course, like this beach under Mangart, to collect water behind the embankment, to those who have already gone up and down the valley every day by a meter and a half. So it doesn't stop and there's a lake in the back, and, of course, that area is flooded. Together, we fear that one day it will slip all together into the valley, and it will surely bury at least three houses. It is also worrying that the flow of water is significantly lower from below the beach. It is said that water is kept up and that water that flows down is completely white as milk. It says he's washing the stone, it's also some stream, and it's very serious. Now, in that capture, that water that we said was a lake, experts, of course with civil protection, have put pipes to drain this water. Success is not yet visible. So there's still a lot of work to be done. It goes there every day, they call me on civilian protection, a million and a half to two million costs. So far, about 100 million has been spent and we don't know where this thing is going to stop. So you wouldn't forget this problem either. We're talking about one billion now. First we said it was only for Log under Mangart, now it's about everything that's been here since October 15th. These things need to be discussed a little more seriously. Thank you very much so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Tank, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u93	Thank you so much for saying that. I welcome everyone. The Group of the Social Democratic Party proposed that this item should be considered as a priority as item 2 of the agenda for this extraordinary meeting, so that the Members could also demonstrate in a symbolic way that the problems of the people in Posača and in other vulnerable regions of Slovenia are close to us, that we give them the necessary importance and priority, in short, to give them the sense that solving their problems is our moral, political and other priorities. Unfortunately, the Members did not vote on this amendment. This item remained on the agenda of this meeting, which I consider to be somewhat less important. After all, we have proved by non-voting that Tutsi and Hutujki in Rwanda are more important to this national assembly than our taxpayers and nature conservationists in Posoča, as well as elsewhere. The Socialist Party's Group supports the law and the amendments, as we are aware that the great damage caused by natural disasters must be remedied as soon as possible. The Group of the Social Democratic Party also supports the amendments that I have tabled to this Act relating to the removal of the barrier of the Prigorica retentionist at Ribnica. With the amendments, I would like to provide in time the funds necessary to prevent another threatening natural disaster. For there is a general danger for 500 people, in order to destroy their property, in the event that the barrier of the dry reservoir of Prigorica falls. During the fall of 2000, the barrier maintenance observed a markedly increased leak, leaking through the drainage system of the barrier and also through the body of the barrier itself. Due to the increased rainfall in November, the problems of de factoity through the barrier have deteriorated significantly and measures have been taken in the coming days on the basis of expert reviews and assessments by the nature protection authority, the Ljubljana exposition, the hydrotechnic dam manager and the civil protection of the municipality of Ribnica for the possible evacuation and protection of 500 vulnerable residents for the barrier in the event of the collapse and uncontrolled discharge of the accumulated water. Due to the professional requirement for the emergency removal of the barrier, it immediately approached the design task by describing the existing situation and the necessary measures to remove the barrier and the accompanying facilities. The estimated value for project documentation and recovery is 250 million tolars. The Prigorica barrier is a very large object, in which about 500 times as many cubits as it has the largest plaza are kept during the floodwaters, and it threatens about 100 times as many people as the largest reptile. The barrier or dam has worked well since 1986, since there have been no major floods in the area before and for the barrier, and not for those that would have any noteworthy consequences. Thus, some 4,000 people have been solved. The custodian and the letter sent to the ILO alert the urgency of the interventions and they do not want to take any responsibility and cannot take any responsibility. If I quote: "In the time until the complete removal of the barrier the function of the restraint will be excluded, which means that the water will be evacuated as soon as possible from the accumulation space through the soil release. In the event of adverse weather conditions and major precipitation, the re-inclusion of the accumulation level increases the risk that operators and maintenance workers cannot assume." The maintenance proposal basically means the same as driving or running wild on roads without brakes, at the silent landing of police and technical inspection services. For this reason, we propose that funds be immediately provided for the design and implementation of barrier recovery, which can only be achieved under this law. This proposal of amendments in no way, either substantively or financially, impedes the rehabilitation of the beaches, but allows an immediate approach to the removal of the barrier Only by timely recovery can we avoid another natural disaster. We must be aware that it is very important for these amendments to be adopted, because only in this case can we prevent the possibility of a new disaster, which was not possible in the case of the Member's villain. If this barrier fails and floods occur, the tragic consequences will be significantly greater, as will the damage and cost of recovery. I propose that the assembly also support the amendments that we have proposed to provide the necessary funds for an immediate approach to the removal of the barrier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u95	Thank you for your word. Look. I find this house so impolite that we're not even in the final composition here when it comes to people's hardships. Please call on the leaders of the parliamentary groups to ensure that we are present so that we can vote on this. I suggest we find out what's going on.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u96	Yeah. I suggest we find out what's going on! [[47 present.]] Well, it's a conundrum. I invite Mr. Pohorc, DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u97	Thank you for your word. The DeSUS Group expresses its sympathy for the people affected by this great natural disaster. We propose to the National Assembly that it publicly commends all the structures in the protection and rescue system that were quick, self-sacrificing and professional in the event of this accident. Our parliamentary group also joins in those proposals that the state of Slovenia needs a system-wide law on natural disasters, in particular on the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters that require large financial resources when a country or an area is affected by natural disasters. The DeSUS Group will support the adoption of this law by amendments, as created by the mother's working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Pece, Slovenian National Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the Slovenian National Party, too, we basically supported the proposal that today's point, namely, the point of recovery or the resolution of the disaster that occurred recently, be regarded as one of the introductory points, thereby showing a certain opinion or demonstrating the importance of the matter. Our country, i.e. Slovenia, has recently been under a great natural burden, which has been taking place over the past few years, from floods to earthquakes, not least the beaches. Unfortunately, the matter - it seems that nature also plays with us in this part of Europe or in this part of the world - is so much more frequent than in history that I would like to refer to the continuation of the speech concerning the proposed amendments themselves. As far as the proposed law is concerned, we will, of course, support them, like all parliamentary groups. For the purpose of this national assembly is, or should be, to make decisions that are actually taking place in the lives of ordinary people as often as possible, if not always. This case is one of these today. We will not, however, descend, like certain parliamentary groups, into the composition of the soil, in weather forecasts and similar things. However, we will try to achieve this by doing our best - and here I also appeal to all other parliamentary groups to closely monitor the implementation of this law, particularly in those provisions which speak of the financial structure, the implementation and allocation of funds. Sadly, the past or history in this area, that is, in the field of natural disasters, has taught us that all too often money comes to the wrong addresses, namely, in the wrong place and at the wrong time. I think it would make sense to stop here or at this point. However, in order to respond, let's say, to the consequences of natural disasters that usually take place within a few minutes, it would really be necessary, at least in our opinion, by the Ministry of the Environment or other competent institutions in that country to draw up a umbrella law that would allow for the elasticity or specificity of each natural disaster, and would determine in particular what those people who have been subjected to these disasters need. In our opinion, they do not need a visit from a Member who will come and listen to their problems at that time, but in just a few minutes, he will forget about them, and will mainly regulate how the country, especially through financial means, will help how these funds will be distributed and what their timeliness will be. We will support the proposed law, as well as the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr Diacija, Party of Young Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u101	Thank you, Chairman. Because I'm going to be brief, I'd just like to get out of my food without stalling. The Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party supports the law on measures to accelerate recovery in the areas affected by the plasma and storm of the storm, and we also support the adoption of the Law on Natural Disasters as soon as possible, which would systematically regulate and anticipate a rapid solution in the event of possible natural disasters. I agree with the words of the predecessors and, above all, with Mr Bozič, who mentioned natural disasters in Slovenia. I would add catastrophic floods in the wider Celje area and the Upper Savina Valley, which can also happen again. As I mentioned earlier, we will support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u103	I'm sorry I didn't react right away. I know that honourable Member Peca is working for excellent performances, and he usually succeeds. I would like him to stick to the Rules of Procedure and not comment and argue with the person who spoke on behalf of the Group of Members. So let's leave meteorology alone.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Written suggestions, I'm sorry, I missed the combined list. Mr. Grošelj, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u105	Mr President, it's no big deal because we're here in the hall and we could join later. Dear Members and Members, dear colleagues! The United List of Social Democrats, immediately in the wake of this severe natural disaster, has shown in a sufficiently clear and clear manner all their sympathy and, of course, immediately to approach the most urgent rehabilitation of this great natural tragedy that has taken place in this part of our country. That is why, of course, we have also taken great pleasure in adopting this law, which, in essence, indicates only the beginning of this intervention and other measures, which will only be taken later with the adoption of the 2001 budget, and probably only later in full for the recovery in the area affected by this beach. This is also due to the very positive assessment of the government's efforts so far and, of course, the state's beach rehabilitation commission in particular. In recent years, we have begun to systematically address these difficult and urgent problems in individual municipalities, of course, especially from this point of view, because we have very soon found that we are, in fact, almost incapacitated at the local level in order to provide the necessary financial resources. That is why such an approach, in dealing with the problem that has been raised, is also correct and also effective. Therefore, the adoption of a law, for which we propose to adopt it as soon as possible, will be fully supported by a systemic one, with which we will also adopt some long-term guidelines and thus also sources of resources. Well, I would also like to add that we have also given all our support to the rehabilitation of the barrier of the detentionist Prigorica near Ribnica in the Infrastructure Committee, but we have been assured by the Minister that the first funds will be provided for the preparation of the relevant project documentation already this year, so that the financial resources will be provided in the 2001 budget, which is why we have not persisted in this amendment. It certainly goes to everyone, to all the jobs. This has also proved that the system of protection and rescue and protection is properly installed in our country. But we also express our deep gratitude to all the directly affected people in this area, who have shown a great deal and not least have done what we can sometimes call superhuman. Thank you all so much again. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will fully support all amendments and give its power to adopt the law in full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u106	Thank you very much. It seems that all the parliamentary groups have come forward, so I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. There were no written reports. Maybe someone wants to discuss it. [[I limit this debate to five minutes]] ? Please, Mr. Marshich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u107	Thank you so much for saying that. I certainly support the adoption of this law, but I would like to stress what has already been said by my predecessors - thanks in particular to those who have provided assistance immediately. This is mainly the case with firefighting organisations and units in the security and rescue system. However, there is one thing that needs to be highlighted here that is of particular importance in all the story and this accident, especially in the case of voluntary organisations, which are often forgotten at a time when their resources need to be planned, but are usually taken into account when responsibility for possible errors needs to be sought. I think that the National Programme for the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters should also be addressed by the National Assembly as soon as possible, which would focus on prevention in this area, which is often neglected and therefore also leads to casualties and accidents, particularly on the basis of assessments of the threat of individual areas in the Republic of Slovenia. Last but not least, I also support the adoption of a roof law which will allow for the immediate provision of intervention aid and the provision of means of recovery. Only in this way will we be able to provide assistance immediately, without adopting and without this long procedure for the adoption of individual intervention laws after any accident or accident that will take place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Do any other Members want to discuss it? Since no one wants to discuss this anymore, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. I suggest to the assembly that you agree with each other. Thank you very much. [[...]] I have a warning you don't have to do this. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments of 20.12.2000. I ask Members to take this material into their hands. So 20.12. - review of the amendments tabled. I am putting an amendment to Article 1 into the debate. There are three amendments to Article 1. The first is the amendment of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, the second is the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the third is the amendment of Ambassador Jožet Tanka. In doing so, we must, of course, warn Members that, should this first amendment be adopted, the two amendments to this article will become irrelevant. I ask the representative of the government to state what is happening with the other amendment for which the withdrawal is announced. The government withdraws the second amendment. So we move on to the first amendment. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to say the following about the amendments to Article 1: The main purpose of this law is in particular the rehabilitation and action of natural disasters or accidents that have occurred in Logo under Mangart, or the creeping of other major reptiles. And my basic proposal or desire is to maintain this purpose in the law as it has been made, and not to extend in the law the elimination of such or other consequences of other natural disasters that have occurred in this shorter period or as a result of a period of severe rain. That this law would not happen as it did with the law on the removal of the effects of drought, which eventually received a completely different form and treatment than its purpose. Since, as much as we want to expand this law with amendments, I would say, things also need to be taken into account in other basic accidents. Finally, the removal of the consequences caused by the abundant rain, with the increased level of Lake Cerknica. That is why I oppose amendments that spread the purpose of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u111	Thank you for your word. I have proposed this amendment or these amendments mainly because the government is aware that there is a great danger. This is the largest retainer in Slovenia, almost a thousand meters long, 9 meters high and after which 9 million cubic metres of water gathers by the rain. Behind the conservator are two settlements within a few hundred metres of the distance and in the event that this barrier, along with the next large rain likely to come, falls in the spring at the latest, means that these two settlements are flooded at a height of two meters. The intervention law is the only way to approach this problem immediately, because if we wait for the budget, then this means a delay in solving this problem for at least half a year. But there's only one thing I'd like to point out. At the "hearing", the minister proposed or gave the initiative to end this crazy dance of bureaucracy somehow. And I think these amendments belong in that category, to take one such important step forward here, and I think the government should be the one to support this. The price is about 250 million there. Six months from now, it could be 3 or 4 billion or 5 and about 20 more dead. I think it is worth supporting and enabling this issue to be resolved immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Since no one wants to say another word, I'm going to make a decision. I am putting to the vote the amendment to Article 1 under number 1. There are 60 Members and Members present. We vote on the first amendment to Article 1. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. In this way the second - the second amendment has already been withdrawn from the government; the third amendment has, of course, become irrelevant in this way. And, of course, in this regard, all the other amendments concerning the following articles concerning the amendment by Mr Jožet Tankot. We move on to Article 2, which has four amendments. The first amendments were tabled by LDS Members, the Consolidated List, SLS+SKD and DeSUS, with a correction that you all received in writing. The second was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the third by Ambassador Jože Tanko and the fourth by Ambassador Jože Tanko. Third and fourth, of course, in the light of the vote under Article 1. Please, if anyone wants to discuss it. Please, Mr. Government Representative, Mag. Tausesa, Secretary of State. Excuse me? [[The government withdraws its amendment.]] So the government withdraws the amendment under number two. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since it seems that it does not, then, of course, we recognize the presence of Members. 62 Members and Members are present. Let us vote on the amendment to Article 2 under number one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The article has, of course, been amended in this way. It's not? I'm sorry. I was wrong. We still have to vote on the article as a whole. There are 59 Members and Members present. We are voting on the whole article. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the article has been fully adopted. We turn to the third article, to which the two amendments were tabled, the first proposed by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, second Member Tanko, insofar as the second amendment is irrelevant in relation to the previous vote on Article 1. Anybody want to talk? Because no one wants to discuss it, we're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the amendment to Article 3 under number 1. 65 Members and Members are present. Who is behind the amendment to Article 3? [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We still have to vote on Article 3 as a whole. There are 60 Members and Members present. Who's in favor of Article 3 as a whole? [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that Article 3 has been adopted. We are moving on to Article 4, where two amendments were tabled, the first being submitted by the Infrastructure and Environment Committee, the second Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is supported by the mother's working body. Anybody want to talk? Because no one wants a word, we're going to make a decision. I shall put to the vote the first amendment to Article 4. There are 60 Members and Members present. Who is in favour of the first amendment to Article 4? [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the first amendment has been adopted. I am putting forward a second amendment to Article 4. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. Please, let's find out who's here! 62 Members and Members are present. Let us vote on the second amendment to Article 4. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 4 as a whole. We recognize the presence or presence! There are 60 Members and Members present. Let's vote on the whole article. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that Article 4 has been adopted. Three amendments were tabled under Article 5. Under number one, he was proposed by the Infrastructure and Environment Committee, under number two of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and under the number three members of Jože Tanko. I ask the representative of the government to make a statement on the second amendment. The retreat was announced. So there's an amendment under number two. Number three is irrelevant. So, we vote Ozirom I give the floor first to Members and Members of Parliament. [[...]] No one's checked in. We recognize the presence in the hall! There are 58 Members and Members present. Please let us vote. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still have to vote on the whole article. 61 Members and Members are present. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 5 has been adopted. We are moving on to Article 6 with only one amendment, namely the Infrastructure and Environment Committee. Anybody want a word? If he doesn't want to, we're going to make a decision. There are 58 Members and Members present. Who's behind the amendment to Article 6? [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. 62 Members and Members are present. Who's in favor of Article 6 as a whole? [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're dealing with Section 7. Two amendments were tabled. The first was proposed by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, the second Government of the Republic of Slovenia, supported by the mother's working body. Anybody want to talk? If he doesn't want to discuss it, we're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote amendment number 1 to Article 7. There are 64 Members and Members present. Let us vote on the amendment under Article 1 to 7. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I'm putting an amendment to the vote under number two. There are 56 Members and Members present. Let's vote on amendment number two. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still have to vote on Article 7 as a whole. 66 Members and Members are present. Let's vote on the whole article. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 7 has been adopted. We're moving on to paragraph 7a. It has been submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and is supported by its mother’s working body. Anybody want to talk? Because no one wants to, let's find out where we are! There are 57 Members and Members present. Let's vote on Article 7a. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that Article 7a has been adopted. I'm asking you to take a moment. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] Please, let's calm down. [[...]] We're moving on to paragraph 7.b. It was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? Because no one wants to, we're going to make a decision. There are 60 Members and Members present. Please vote on Article 7b, of course. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that paragraph 7b has been adopted. We're moving on to paragraph 7.c. It was proposed by LDS members, the United List of Social Democrats, the Slovenian People's Party + SKD and DeSUS. Please, does anyone want to discuss this? Because he doesn't want to, we're going to make a decision. I'm putting a new paragraph to the vote. 61 Members and Members of Parliament are present. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that Article 7c has been adopted. I am also putting Article 8 into the debate. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] There are 59 Members and Members present. Who's in favor of Article 8? [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 8 has been adopted. We still have the title of the law. Three amendments were tabled to the title of the law, the first proposed by the Infrastructure and Environment Committee, the second Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which announced the withdrawal, i.e. the withdrawal, and the third Member of the Republic of Slovenia, Joža Tanko, who became irrelevant. So we're just left with the first amendment. Anybody want to talk? Because he doesn't want to, please let us know if we're present. There are 58 Members and Members present. Who's in favour of an amendment to the title of the law? [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the new title of the law has been adopted. We're moving to third reading. I note that amendments have been tabled to all articles except Article 8. And please, if anyone wants to table an amendment, before I ask if anyone wants to discuss the marriage proposal in full. There are no amendments, there is no debate. And first, I'm asking if the law is harmonised. So I find that the law is harmonised. We're voting on the law. 62 Members and Members are present. We are voting on the bill as a whole. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I find that the law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. In view of the fact that there are still three agenda items on the agenda and that they are in some way difficult, I conclude or interrupt the meeting, we continue at 2.30 p.m. And I'm still asking for some attention. I inform you that the 4th extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at 1 p.m. in a large lounge on the first floor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u113	I invite my colleagues and colleagues in the lobby to the hall. We continue with the afternoon session of the 3rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have further apologized for the 3rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on 21 December: Majda Potrata, Aloise Sok and Joseph Bernik. Let's find out who's here! Ladies and gentlemen, there are 39 of us present, but I think there are more of us, and perhaps not all of us have paid enough attention in the beginning, so I ask you once again to find out the presence, a second time. So please note your presence. Is anyone without a card? [[Nobody.]] The assembly is open, so we'll resume in ten minutes at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u114	Dear colleagues. We continue the meeting and rediscover the presence, for the third time. [[49 present.]] The assembly is adjourned and may decide. We're moving to 18. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on special control measures for sale on road border crossings - Quick procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly and we are moving on to the first reading. Does the government want a word? Minister, Mr. Igor Bavčar, please. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u115	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Madam Vice-President. Before you, the proposal for a law on specific control measures is sold at road border crossings. The law drafted by the Government, notably through the cooperation of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Relations and Development, the Ministry of Labour, the Family and Social Affairs. The substance of the proposed solutions in the law you will be considering is firstly to enable the whole problem of transforming free-customs stores into one law to allow the conversion date to be moved from 31.12.2001 to 31 March 2001. The date is not harmonised with the European Union, but due to procedural and operational technical options, an earlier date is not possible, according to the Government. Furthermore, it regulates the transfer of stocks to 31.3.2001 in these shops to a new regime from 1.4.2001. What is important is that the law provides for the transformation of free-of-carry shops at border crossings with Italy and Austria, allowing for the inclusion of state budget funds in the resolution of potential job losses and the economic situation in the municipalities where the current free-of-carry shops operate from the State budget and the European Union funds, taking into account the criteria and rules governing state aid in the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union. The vast majority of you who are participating today in the consideration of this law may not know the exact history of the issue under consideration, which has largely accompanied the whole process of Slovenia's integration into the European Union. In order to clarify the key reasons that led to the government's decision to send a proposal to the national assembly for consideration and adoption of this law, let me go a little further to the history of this issue. The problem of the transformation of free-of-carry shops emerged in the context of the negotiations on the conclusion of the European Association Agreement. You will recall that at the time before the initialling of this agreement, the Slovenian negotiating team was exposed to two important issues. On the one hand, the issues that ended in the conclusion of the special annex 13 to the Association Agreement, which led to the adoption of an amendment to the Slovenian Constitution, which was a condition for ratification of the European Association Agreement. On the other hand, the discussion concluded with the joint declaration of Article 94 of the European Association Agreement, ratified later by the Slovenian Parliament, which, referring to the Common Declaration of the Customs Union, defined the position on the continuation of the fate and operation of free-carrying shops at road crossings. A series of years, and certainly all the time that I have been acting as Minister for European Affairs in the previous government or previous government, and as long as the whole issue could be dealt with in the context of the implementation of the Association Agreement, there has been a special dialogue, which has essentially been a dialogue on the interpretation of the common declaration to the 94th Article of this European Association Agreement. During all this time Slovenia has tried and also tried to achieve in this dialogue to interpret such an interpretation, which, of course, does not oblige Slovenia to reshape free-carry shops prior to entry. As part of the dialogue, a number of documents are available on this subject, some important working bodies of this Parliament have concluded in the previous reference - that is to say; in all these documents it is clear that Slovenia has tried very hard to prove that the common declaration does not actually address this issue in the way it was interpreted by the European party that demanded that we recast these free-of-tax stores immediately and immediately. Until the European Union has included this issue in the negotiations on two important chapters, chapter 10 on taxation and chapter 25 on customs union, between the requirements and its negotiating bases for Slovenia's integration into the European Union. Given that Slovenia has put forward a plan, which is generally agreed to conclude negotiations this year or next year, given that it has two chapters blocked with this issue, it is from the perspective of Slovenian integration, and in particular from the view that we expect the European Summit in Goteborg during the Swedish Presidency to take a large part in the progress of candidate countries at the summit in Nice, so that the Swedish Presidency, as it has announced, will ambitiously end the whole enlargement process and already intends to develop an enlargement programme during the six months following year, a project with dates and also the names of countries, is any delay in the negotiations, further blocking individual negotiating positions is so much more unacceptable in view of our fundamental objective. Slovenia has no substantive and insurmountable problems in the negotiations. In many areas where other candidate countries face a significantly more difficult problem than, say, agriculture and the environment, as well as free movement of persons, it is nevertheless far ahead of others and it is further unacceptable from this point of view to block negotiations on these issues. The second part and the very important part of the government's decision to propose this law, [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u116	Excuse me! Mr. Victory Jelinčič, can you please stop the debate? Thank you. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u117	Thank you very much. concerns economic reasons. [[...]] In the past, we have acquired arguments that we wanted to justify the proposed law. A number of economic studies were commissioned by the Institute of Economic Research, which was reviewed by the Economic Institute at the Faculty of Law, which were the subject of many dialogues among experts, but nevertheless: studies have shown on a reasonable basis that the loss of jobs would reach a maximum of 300 to 400 employees when properly redesigned. Therefore, in order to bring customs and tax advantages to these shops and to equalise the conditions of business on the Slovenian market, when we introduce normal competition and when we align the conditions of business in trade activities, to relieve or - I will say - to limit the negative effect that may be shown in the transformation of free trades in particular in the number of employees, and given that most of these shops are located in border areas, which also, due to other demographic, economic, cultural and social characteristics, suffer or are subject to particularly difficult conditions of management and that these and such areas are also underrepresented, or I will say, economically less developed than others, the government has, of course, developed in this law a series of mechanisms that will be in line with the positive existing legislation, and in the context of the introduction of fully-normal mechanisms for the purpose of attracting these assets into a regional framework. I think that, at the time of the creation of this law, at the time of consideration in the competent working bodies, and in the dialogue with Members, and also taking into account some of the comments made by the companies concerned, the Government has developed a number of new amendments, as well as the Committee, and the Government has also developed a number of new amendments which, in technical terms, improve the law, make it more feasible and, of course, enable businesses to improve conditions, inadequately better conditions for recasting. I therefore ask that the law, as proposed, be adopted and thus made possible, I will say that normalisation and the equalisation of business conditions in trade activities, and Slovenia, that it immediately completes and closes important chapters in negotiations with the European Union at the beginning of next year and thus implements its programme of integration into the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The draft law was also regarded by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Vice President, Mr. Willy Trophynik. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u119	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy is next to the 3rd Extraordinary Meeting of 20 December and the 4th Extraordinary Meeting of the Republic of Slovenia, today, 21 December, as the working body, considered the proposal for a law on specific control measures for shops at the road border crossings submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government proposes to consider and adopt the law submitted in a swift manner due to the emergency needs of the State. Since you have received the report, which is quite extensive, in that form, let it be limited to just a few points. At the same time, he pointed out that the 4th extraordinary meeting of the Committee was concluded just before the plenary session was resumed, so you will also be arrested during the examination of the law on the bench. However, it should be noted that the applicant has provided or found that shops that have previously operated at road border crossings as free-of-carinage sales will be able to continue their business under the same tax and customs conditions as for sales at other locations. At the same time, specific control measures will prevent or limit possible irregularities and illegalities that could result from the specific location of border stores. Furthermore, the Committee was informed of the written proposal by Mr Bogdan Barovic, a member of the Committee, of 15.12. for the withdrawal of the law submitted from the agenda of the meeting of the Committee or of the State Assembly. In its opinion, the Member stated that it was in direct contradiction with the decision of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of which the President of the National Assembly would hold back the allocation of the draft law if the legislative procedure on the draft law with the same or similar content had not yet been completed. The mother's working body was not defined until the proposal for the proposed law to be dealt with on a rapid basis, for a simple reason, since the national assembly had already decided before the consideration of the law submitted on the home working body of this proposal to deal with it in a rapid manner. The opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters of 23.8 was also forwarded to the Committee, which reminds the secretariat of the text of the law only that a few minor linguistic and editorial corrections will be necessary. The Secretariat shall also make comments to the Government's already withdrawn amendment for a new Article 13a of 17.8 this year. The Committee was also informed or provided with an additional opinion from the secretariat which you received from 7.9 which you received in writing and therefore would not refer to the findings of the secretariat. In the context of the general debate, the members of the Committee generally supported its adoption, but a number of concerns were expressed regarding the proposed deadline and the way in which economic and social consequences would be addressed following the entry into force of this Act. In the course of the discussion, the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs gave an oral opinion at the meeting on the Government's amendments, which were forwarded by the secretariat on 14.12. He stressed, however, that the amendments took due account of the comments made by the secretariat in writing or which had previously been submitted for consideration by the working body or the national assembly. The Committee further identified, at its 3rd extraordinary meeting, both the Government's amendments and the amendments that were tabled up to the 3rd extraordinary meeting of the parent working body and also formulated some of its amendments, which you also received in writing in the report or review of the amendments. At its 4th extraordinary meeting, the Committee defined or considered amendments tabled by fellow Members or group of Members after the 3rd extraordinary meeting and some of the amendments submitted were adopted, and some were rejected and written withdrawals were announced for some amendments. I hope that you will receive all of this or receive it in writing at this time, so I would not mention it. Finally, the Committee adopted a decision to propose to the National Assembly to adopt the proposed law, including amendments adopted by the Committee in the framework of the procedure adopted, on which it defined itself the National Assembly at the time of adoption of the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u120	Thank you. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mr Victory Jelinčič wanted a word on behalf of the SNS Group of Members. Here you go, Mr. Victory.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Have a nice hello to you all. Today we will adopt a law on specific measures for control of shops at road border crossings. In fact, it is a big slap on the Slovenian national pride, a big slap on the Slovenian economy and a typical low-level worship of the Slovenian government to the Western European Union or the European Union. After all, we're not gonna get anything out of this, but there's gonna be some Slovenian policy on the shoulder and they're gonna say, well, you're good, now go back to the corner. That's how it happens, and that's how it happened. The three aspects of the complacency of the Slovenian government are important and the three are violated. The first is the political aspect, the second is the national aspect and the third is the legal aspect. In all three areas, the Slovenian government has shown that it has no corruption, has no intelligence and has no Slovenian national pride. They have complied with the demands of some Austrian connoisseurs who have in every way demanded that Slovenia squeeze into the place and that sales be banned in small-scale shops before we enter or enter the European Union if we ever enter the European Union. I doubt that we will ever, for two reasons: the first reason is that they don't need slaves in Europe, they have asylum seekers, and the second is that the European Union is likely to fall apart by then, depending on what kind of cracks they eat, how the Danes serve it nicely "no" for the euro, how something similar is being prepared in England or Great Britain and how something similar is going to happen in Sweden. The Austrian conservants, representing the Austrian interests, have achieved a ban on the importation of tobacco products from Slovenia into Austria or a limit to a minimum quantity - contrary to and inconsistent with the provisions of the European Union and their legislation. All right and all right, that was with the Austrians. Slovenians, the Slovenian government was silent, did not dare to raise their voices, did not dare to raise questions in various European institutions, but simply, of course, because the Austrian gentlemen said so, we must consider them and confirm this! We've been through this peacefully. On the lagoon side, gasoline in the border area was reduced or the price of gasoline was reduced to almost half. Again our government has not dared to object to anything, anything to say, for if the Lachish Parliament raised its voice, of course, what would happen! Perhaps some gentleman from our government would be allowed to travel to an Italian resort or perhaps charge him the full cost of his vacation. Unfortunately this is happening in the Slovenian Parliament, here we accept according to the dictatorship of the Slovenian government. The entire segment of the now coalition party was still a few months ago harshly against the closure of free-carrying shops. Today, the power of power has taken over them so strongly that they are willing to sell their own until yesterday 100 percent guarantees and until yesterday 100 percent support to the Slovenian voters who promised them that there is no way to deviate from these bright principles, which will defend them to the last drop of blood, probably, foreign blood, of course, the blood of those who will truly lose their job, who will be at home, who will not have provided social affairs and so on. It is unclear to European parliamentarians how it is possible that the Slovenian government is so stupid that it accepts something that it has not accepted and will not accept and would not accept any other government in Europe. I can say that 14 days ago, MEP Speroni - otherwise, the representative of the Republic of Italy - said that Italy had not completely closed its "duty-free" until last August and that it did not understand how it could be that someone was so stupid to push the closure in advance and offer the closure of its duty-free shops, when we did not even know if we would come to the European Union or when we would come to the European Union; I will not say when we would come to the European Union. The Slovenian government has given strange dates that are increasingly moving away. On the first occasion of the debate, Mr Drnovšek spoke - when it was forced that some in Parliament, but unfortunately most, supported the Spanish compromise proposal, it was said that we would be in Europe for this signature already in 1999. 1999, not 2099, so someone doesn't think wrong. Then it moved more and more into distances. As early as last spring, when I arrived with a document stating that there was no chance that Slovenia would have been in the European Union earlier than 2005 or 2006, the gentlemen of the Slovenian government, including the mandate-holder or Prime Minister, the late prime minister and the re-presidents of the government, made great efforts to write in newspapers that it was stupid for these documents not to be true that Jelinčič was lying and so on. After all, it all turned out to be real. I think it's far more distant than anyone in here imagines. After all, there's one more thing. I said that for Mr Speroni, this is what all European parliamentarians are thinking, which in one way or another say that this is nothing more than the requirement of some of the European bureaucracy, which is involved in certain percentages of certain companies, and that is what harms them in calculating share gains or share interest gains every year, it is very sad that our gentlemen, the Prime Minister, then also Mr Zoran Thaler, who probably did not understand what this is all about, and they all confirmed it together. Today, Mr Thaler has a company that claims to have beautiful flowers that deal with imports, exports, etc. Very strange, very strange. Although, according to the latest information I have received, the company is also quite underwater, despite the fact that from certain financial resources of certain existing companies it also reaches here and so on, a million. [[...]] There is something very sad about the fact that, in fact, there was no European issue here and that the European Union has never bound Slovenia's entry to abolish these duty-free shops. But what our parents were offering in the future, they probably would have offered something else, but they didn't remember that moment. We would probably have offered if we then remembered that Slovenia had lipicance, we would have offered lipicances. But probably Mr Thaler said, "Wow, we don't know if the Lipcans are ours at all are probably either Italian or maybe Austrian, but we can't offer foreign goods to Europe." Perhaps someone would have given a little bit of the exercise, or they would have given the Constitutional Judges the opportunity to make a fortune and make money. I am increasingly impressed by the opinion and thinking that this government is not a Slovenian government, that this constitutional court is not a Slovenian constitutional court, but that these are some of the exhibits of some strange yodelary variants, which reign here in the long and lowlands, and which we can probably expect to require from the Slovenian Parliament as well, that we go in here in the dendarlah or in the Irish. I supported you not to go in here in fascist uniforms. I said that the other aspect, although intertwined, is also national. The state and political which you are in violation of, in addition to being in breach of the law, also because we have parliamentary democracy in Slovenia. At least I think we have it or should have it. I think we're getting less and less and that in a short period of two-thirds, it's going to be over-voted and shut down. Maybe that's why my exposition here is going to be a little longer, because I'm going to take advantage of that last one, probably the last opportunity that the current Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly give me to speak. This will all be crossed out in the future. Although the rules of procedure of the National Assembly have already been violated in this case. It is well stated in Article 174 that as long as the other laws of the same subject matter are being addressed, the president of the National Assembly, which I now miss here, would be nice to answer why he has landed, perhaps because of a coalition agreement, to the anti-constitutional and illegal standard that he has included this law. This law should not be debated until we have discussed two laws that are still under discussion. I said it was also a serious violation of the law. And if we are going to the fundamental definitions first, we must be aware that ownership was first defined by a civil law concept. It later began to treat itself in the same way as defined in the European concept of human rights in the Additional Protocol of 4.11.1950. The discussion began as to whether property should not be considered in the changed sociological situation as the sum of subjective property rights. Property should not only guarantee freedom to an individual but also the sum of property rights. It's a security function. Therefore, the term extends to all property categories: real estate, movable property, claims, trademarks, patents, shares and deposits, and expected rights. Today, ownership rights are extended to certain publicly recognised rights, such as social security benefits. It is the notion of assets as the existential basis of entities. The term extends to every value, as well as to all those rights, or to all rights, even merely reasonably expected. Therefore, in theory rather than property rights, more is discussed on the protection of property. The purpose of entrepreneurial property is to generate income. This existential basis is both natural and legal. In companies, we talk about property as a community of things and rights. As a legal person, however, the Community enjoys property protection, not by possible shareholders or shareholders, the latter may be indirectly affected. The value of the company exists in the relationship of things, allowing them to generate profits, not individual things or rights. Only with unity does the company ensure existence, which is a constitutional object or element of property. Only what exists for a certain period of time and works with a high degree of probability in view of the business situation is entrepreneurship property, despite constant risks. It is a matter of legal understanding of the community of things and rights. Material goods such as organisation, business partners, market role, location, entrepreneurial, sociological climate and the like need to be taken into account, which does not correspond to the company’s book value. As a substance of the company, we cannot only count the things and rights that are shown in the balance sheet. The buyer buys the company not as a sum of the value of things and rights, but according to the expected profit. Property as a constitutionally protected right is defined in Article 33 of the Constitution. Freedom of property and its resulting useful value are not guaranteed unconditionally by the Constitution, there is a possibility of decommissioning or social tying [[Articles 69 and 67 of the Constitution speak about this.]] , but in the event of dispossession, this is the confiscation of property, and the limitations are guaranteed the right to compensation, which means that the withdrawal of property "per balance" does not constitute the confiscation of property. The value of property is protected; it is not only about protecting the real and legal situation of things, but primarily about the exchange value of things, i.e. through the Constitution guaranteed the principal value of the guarantee. Acquisition and possession of property is protected, as I have already said, in particular by Article 33 of the Constitution. Acquisition and disposal of property are complemented by the solutions contained in the concept of ownership itself. As far as acquisition is concerned at all, this is linked to the general freedom of conduct. Freedom of conduct shall also apply in the economic field, and the right of a person, both physical and legal, shall be protected from state rules, measures and planning acts. The content of Article 33 of the Constitution confers entitlement to use of property for entrepreneurial purposes. However, Article 49 of the Constitution provides for the right to combine the various production factors for the establishment of a company. The right to assembly and association, contained in Article 42 of the Slovenian Constitution, gives the right to set up companies. In particular, entrepreneurship is protected by the provision of Article 74 of the Constitution. In the specific case that we are talking about in this law today, the issue is the limitation of property rights, as the proposal of this customs law provides for the abolition of free customs shops where the rights of free-of-customs shops are being infringed. The problem of acquired rights is mentioned in Article 155 of the Constitution, which provides in its second paragraph that only the law may provide that individual provisions of the Constitution have an effect in return, provided that this requires public benefit and does not prejudice the rights acquired. The acquired rights are generally defined as established legal conditions, which are not only protected by provisions, but also as such, which are protected from the legislator because they enjoy constitutional judicial protection, such as the provision of property. These conditions are justified by the State and are not limited in time, but permanent and therefore irrevocable. With regard to the right acquired, some theorists point out that these rights are strengthened by the principle of confidence in law and that the right is acquired in particular when it also has elements of contract law. We have nothing to do with this, of course. The acquired right is based on voluntary design, linked to the service of an entity that has fulfilled certain conditions, paid taxes, built a facility, acquired an economic activity, etc. So, with his cooperation, the albeit determined state authority. It is a declaration of the will of the two parties, which means interrelationship, and the State gives special protection to that right by a decision. The acquired right is strengthened by a special constitutional decision referring to the confiscation or limitation of property rights in Article 69 of the Constitution. Thus it says: "The property right to property may be taken for public benefit or limited to compensation in kind or against compensation under the conditions laid down in the law." This provision provides for compensation for the confiscation of property and also for its restriction. For example, the Austrian Constitutional Court, of course for Austria, did not, unfortunately, lay down a strict rule for us that the law by which property rights are withdrawn or restricted should also determine the appropriate compensation as an essential element of the law and its constitutionality. The quoted provision of the Slovenian Constitution also requires the determination of compensation, since otherwise the law which does not resolve it is contrary to the Constitution. The German Constitutional Court - which is already in the EU, which is already early in the EU - has decided that the law that takes or restricts property must determine the type and measure of compensation. The laws governing this matter are contrary to the Constitution once the Constitution is in force if they do not provide compensation for trespassing on property. This is also discussed by the various decisive Federal Constitutional Court, if you like, I can also read the decision book, the decision book is 4, page 219 and page 64, page 268. The German Constitutional Court also requested that compensation be appropriate to take into account the social relationship and social importance of the owner, in view of the purpose of the standard, which must not unduly burden the owner. Here we are also talking about the decisions of the Federal German Constitutional Court, a collection of decisions if you wish to write this too; a collection of decisions 21 on page 150, decisions 50 on page 290 and a collection of decisions 53 on page 257. A disproportionate amount of compensation may lead to a violation of the constitutional standard of equality before the law. This is what Article 14 speaks of. If it imposes a particular burden, it is called a property sacrifice, which turns out to be a unilateral burden on others. Here you can see this in the same documents, in the Collection of Decisions 137 on page 152. In the "Modendenkmal" decision, "Colonia Ultia traiana", the German Federal Court of Justice distinguished the alienation and defined the substance of the property in relation to the use limit, thereby clarifying the limitation of property rights. You can read this in the decisions of the Federal Court in civil matters, on pages 110, 12 and 16. In cases of alienation and limitation of property rights, the law must respect the principles of proportionality. It must take into account in the Constitution the specific social content of property rights on the one hand and the legitimate interests of other participants and thus achieve a certain balance of interests. The privilege of one party or discrimination of the other party is not in accordance with the constitutional requirement of social attachment to property. Likewise, the decisions of the German Federal Constitutional Court, the case-law of Decisions No. 37, page 132. Accordingly, the legislator is bound by the constitutional principle of proportionality and the prosperity of the public is not only a basis but also a limit to the establishment of property restrictions. [[A colleague no longer likes to be copied, in which sets of decisions and on which side he is, so that I will release these numbers, but later I can give it to him separately.]] It is also necessary to take into account the situational linkage of property which dictates in the general interest specific conduct in the form of an order or a prohibition. This is part of the social attachment of real estate. Such examples include, for example, the protection of cultural and natural monuments, the various rules of environmental protection, landscape, planning law, construction, protection zones, taking into account soil properties and similar matters. There is also a limit to the use of soil if this threatens the public interest, gentlemen of goodness! To that end, Slovenia will have to do a lot more. This concerns requirements for the safety of construction, the establishment of safe business, groundwater and the like.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u122	Mr. Victory, allow only one explanation. I have really listened very carefully to your implementation, and as today's agenda does not address the issue of property rights and the limitation of property rights, which you are very much explaining to this moment, but only as the government representative has said, in the area of limitation, is the taking of customs and tax privileges, but not the taking away of property rights from someone, I would ask you to stick to the issues on the agenda in your speech, which is the issue of the privileges of free-of-tax retailers today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u123	Madam President, you probably didn't listen to me well enough. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u124	That's very thoughtful.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u125	I can go again from the beginning, and maybe I can explain something else if you want, but the fact that this is about reducing rights, reducing property and reducing freedoms. And it is in this law that I justify these wrong decisions, the wrong choices by what I am now reading. But if you forbid me, it's a violation of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u126	I don't forbid it. I want you to stick to the agenda in accordance with the rules of procedure. The material we have in front of us doesn't talk about taking property rights from someone. This debate, however, speaks only of taking ownership rights and all the consequences and due attention that the State and the Executive have to pay to this issue. That's not today's agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u127	Madam President, I don't think you understand. However, I may remind you that you will probably not want to listen until the end because you will be asked at home in Koroška why you do not represent the opinion of the 12 Koroski municipalities, which require that PCPs not be closed, but that you represent the opinion that you are ordered by the coalition contract or by party affiliation. I'm sorry, but [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u128	I'm sorry about your right. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u129	Allow me to finish, Madam President. I'll listen to you then, but I want to finish this sentence, and then I'll leave you to it, and then I'll keep going. Indeed, it is unacceptable that you should actually stop the opposition party's man, say what the Slovenian government should have done, and reveal what he has done. Excuse me, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u130	Let me answer that. As I've decided, it's my personal matter, and what I'm representing, you don't know, so I won't let you say what my opinion is. That's the first one. Second. I only asked you, in accordance with Rule 68(1) of the Rules of Procedure, to talk about the issue on the agenda today. Taking ownership rights today is not on the agenda. Thank you very much. That is all I am asking you to do is stick to this topic of today's debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u131	Madam President! If you have a car, someone from the government comes to take your car away from you, is that taking your property rights or is that not taking your property rights? And they're also gonna take away some PCP. That's what I'm explaining. I'm going to skip a little bit, and I'm going to do the interventions myself, as such, from a legal point of view, Madam President.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u132	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u133	An intervention in property constitutes a positive conduct by the State authority in accordance with its powers. The abandonment of one’s conduct by the State does not always constitute an interference with the property. The public authority is treated equally by the institution with public authority - these are public institutions, public companies, funds. The intervention must be directly cut into the property. The criterion of directness is not merely a formal one, but a measure on the basis of certain competences. It is essential that the risk to the property is presented, realised or demonstrated in the measure itself. I think I'm closer to the dark now. Similarly, the second provision states that a special victim is imposed on an entity as a necessary consequence of a State measure. As an example, I will again refer to the Federal Republic of Germany, which has a constitutional right very well regulated and does not allow unconstitutional proceedings, including by the State, as is the case with us. In the Federal Republic of Germany, the most interventions have been done to the detriment of entities in the field of construction, for example, the cancellation of the building permit, the modification of the planning acts on the destination of the zone, the later limitation of the already given permit - but here we are closer somehow, indeed - the cancellation of the permit for the operation of the inn plant - here we are even closer - and so on. In short, the intervention must have a direct impact on property where the final targeted conduct is not provided for by causal link. In particular, the criteria for directness mean that the measure contains a viable risk. There it is. The assessment of the compensation shall also take into account the wrong conduct of the injured person, in particular if he has reached a contested decision, by falsely showing the facts where the case is at fault. Where the proceedings are equivalent to the alienation in a well-known decision, "Nasoukisung", the Constitutional Court of the Federal Republic of Germany, it is stressed that the entity cannot enforce the claim before the ordinary court unless it has previously used all the remedies in the administrative procedure. I explain this because, even with this exposition, the activity of the Slovenian National Party in this law proposed by the Government will not be completed. The entity is obliged from the outset to prevent the occurrence of an illegal situation. Each entity is obliged to determine whether the intervention in its property is in conformity with the law or not and to use legal remedies in the event of illegality, since otherwise we may be referring to the injury of the injured entity. Now you probably understand why I have to explain these things in such detail. Specific measures acting as alienation interventions also include plan acts providing for discharges in relation to the construction or demolition of buildings and the purpose of volume zones. With regard to planning, measures may be envisaged to limit the free conduct of entities with a general purpose to protect the health and life of people, plants and animals. Now we're going to protect the good. The State guarantee shall be lodged in respect of damage caused to natural or legal persons or property. State interventions can affect non-profit areas, such as health, life, freedom, personal rights, pain and so on, and the injured person is in the same position as if he were harmed by a third country. That's what you're saying. In that case, it's the intention of the state to harm someone. Those who are injured, this is called PCP, are in the same position. It should be noted that it is not a matter of replacing net assets; existing assets are protected. From the point of view of asset protection, the rules on the protection of property, as well as the loss of profits, are taken into account. Again, we are at the PCP, although it is quite difficult to resolve these issues here, by civil law, unless the special law solves this issue differently. If recovery is detrimental to certain goods, the issue of a specific area opens up, and this is again the area of lost profits. And it is this problem of loss of profits that needs to be highlighted in particular if the protection of existing goods is at the forefront of the loss of profits, it is a hypothetical development of damage, which is generally only taken into account if there is mismanagement on the part of the State. This may mean a loss of normal earnings or benefits resulting in property damage, which must be in direct relation to the State measure taken in the event of disproportionately severe intervention. And just when the PCP is closed, it's a disproportionately severe procedure. In doing so, the rules of civil law on loss of profits shall apply, taking into account the profit that could reasonably be expected in the assessment of the loss of profits, in the light of the normal course of business or in the light of the specific circumstances which cannot be achieved by the act or omission. Here, in this case PCPs have their demands and have their calculations of how much this lost profit is. However, in interpreting the terms used, we can use judicial practice. The criterion of loss of profits can only be the profit that would reasonably be expected in the regular course of things. Subjective assessments and wishes, assumptions shall not be considered as an element of integral recovery. Objective facts must be provided on the basis of which a reasonable profit can be expected. I am sorry that Mr President is leaving because he has been very moved before to listen to this matter, and now he is going out. It's also a regular flow of things, which is usually determined by an expert. We can take another look at something from the federal German court. If we take only a few recent decisions, he says: 'The injured person who claims compensation in the form of loss of profits must submit concrete facts from which the probability of expected profit can be concluded. It is important that binding points are given which are appropriate to assess the likelihood of an expected profit. If the evidence provided is not sufficient to establish the full compensation and not to reject the claim, the extent to which the facts submitted provide the basis for the decision on the lesser compensation should be assessed." This law, which we have before us, does not deal with it anywhere near here. Not even close. Next, case number two. In the absence of a contract for the purchase of real estate, the buyer may claim compensation from the seller, in view of the already acquired location and construction permits for the construction of the apartment building. In this regard, it must submit a calculation demonstrating the likelihood and reality of the expected profit. In doing so, the buyer may also require reimbursement of the investments so far. Investments in PCPs were, in fact, permanent investment, if PCP wants to, this is called a free customs shop, to operate in accordance with market principles. This is said to deny all PCP investments in this law, which is to be adopted today. Come in. The complainant has leased a large exhibition-sale space for a certain period of time. During this time, there was a distortion of the exhibition space and the buyer is entitled to claim the loss of profits that he reasonably expected in the light of the market situation, the envisaged volume of business and other significant facts. Here we can turn, for example, to a free customs shop at the Vertojbe crossing at Novi Gorica, where police put a prison in the middle belt, so the Italians could not come to the Slovenian free-carry shop and shop there. The Slovenians could go and then they went back out, and the Italians couldn't do that. And this was the case. Come in. The loss of profits may also require the reimbursement of investment assets that have been invested in the disputed facility. The funds have been invested - there is no vote on the reimbursement of investment in this law. Come in. An injured person claiming compensation in the form of a loss of profits must provide all the necessary evidence to give rise to the likelihood of profit. It must prove how its assets have changed in the full implementation of the contract, such as the rental of the inn, and how much profit it could have expected, thus finding a difference with the profit achieved. The calculation of the difference between the expected and the profit achieved shall also take into account the possible contribution of the injured person to the injury suffered. This is part of the co-indictment, which was not done by free-of-customs shops, but was the fault of a country that had already requested termination and restricted the operation of free-of-customs shops. Come in. The buyer may, for a time when the purchased apartment could not be used, request compensation in respect of non-compliance with the contract if this space was central to the conduct of his life. In this case, we are again in the case of Vertojba, where the Slovenian official authorities have prevented the use of PCP, that only about half of the people could have volunteered in PCP, where it is actually a restriction of the space for managing PCP's life of central importance. Let's move to guaranteeing the country in the European Union. The Court of Justice of the European Union has repeatedly stressed the Union's co-responsibility, which is what the European Union says, for the damage caused, and has also attached to the injured person the responsibility of his country to compensate for the damage. In short, it also gives the Slovenian national court the opportunity to bring it all together before the European Court of Justice. I don't know how the Slovenian state will look at it. Otherwise, Madam President, I have the feeling that there are not enough Members involved in the debate, so I would ask or request that the quorum be checked in accordance with existing rules. This has already happened and please, if it is possible to verify the quorum; during the discussion I may request a verification and please check the quorum in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u134	Mr. Victory, I'm sure if we really stuck to the agenda, the hall would be full and so on. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u135	Madam President, you have said several times that I do not adhere to the agenda. I would ask someone else to lead this debate if you don't understand what I'm talking about. I ask kindly or demand that the presence in the hall be checked. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u136	Please proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u137	No, when the debate is over, I have the right to check it out. It's true. Mrs. Veliskova, you are nodding away - when he was Praiser for the stage of speech and he demanded it, did it happen, or how? [[...]] Or because we are from a Slovenian national party, do we not have the same right as others, or what? Please check the presence in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u138	I ask you kindly to continue your debate, this right you have taken. Members themselves [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u139	I haven't taken my rights, my right is given by the Constitution, "Madona-santa." Do we have any constitution in this country or the LDS government?
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u140	I'm sorry. I was embarrassed to say that. You have the right to debate and please continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u141	Please, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, establish the conclusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u142	The Rules of Procedure shall govern the quorum and its determination before the beginning of the vote and at the beginning of the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u143	No, please, if you read certain provisions [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u144	Please exercise your right to debate and please continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u145	I don't have the rules of procedure here, and I can't go down there, because then I stopped my debate. The Member should know the Secretary of the State Assembly, the Secretary-General, Mrs Jožica Velišček, because if this is not in the Rules of Procedure, then I will give it to Mrs Jožica Velišček and please, Mrs Jožica, if you find it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u146	Mr. Victory, please don't make a theater out of this advocate of yours. You have the right to debate, the bill-makers listen to you, please discuss, and the decisions of the Members are in their hands. If you do not continue, I will assess that you have finished the debate and, given that we have more applicants, I will call on my colleagues to continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u147	Madam President, it seems that you have already adopted the amended Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in your LDS Group or coalition, which restricts members of the opposition from speaking. I think that this is an eclectic violation, an eclectic violation of Parliament's constitutional rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u148	Mr. Victory, I have kindly asked you three times to continue your speech.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u149	Yeah, you told me to find out where this contagion check is. If you don't mind, I'll do it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u150	I didn't tell you that, but I said [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u151	But I have a right. Because?
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u152	It's not on.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u153	That's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u154	This was the beginning of our session after the adjournment of the morning work. That's what we owe. No, not today.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u155	It's not on.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u156	And this has already happened in the National Assembly. At the request of the Members, we have already checked, today. This is said to have double criteria: to oppose one criterion, to coalition another criteria. Then, come on, because then we can expect jail time for all the opposition MPs to get us out or maybe you want us to stay at home or something? Mr. Peterle explained Article 62. And Article 62 has already been applied several times in the same sense as explained by my fellow Member, Mr Peterle, and I therefore ask that, in accordance with existing practice, we act in the same way today.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u157	Mr. Victory, I ask you to continue your debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u158	I'd like to ask if there's a conclusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u159	Let me explain paragraph 62. When the chairman starts the meeting, he shall inform the national assembly, which of the Members informed him that he has been detained and cannot attend. The chairman shall then determine whether the State assembly is concluded. Mr Victory, once again, I ask you to continue the debate, otherwise my assessment will be that you have stopped the debate, not at my invitation, but at your own personal request.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u160	If it's my personal wish, I'm sorry, you can't figure out what my personal desires are. In fact, you can say that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you can interpret the Rules of Procedure for the duration of your presidency, and this is the only option that you can do so. You haven't said that yet. That's what you say. I'm right until then.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u161	I'm sorry, what I read was my interpretation of the rules of procedure, and please continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u162	Thank you very much. If we'd done this sooner, I'd have gone on a long time ago. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u163	Mr Peterle, I very much appreciate your experience, we will be able to have your procedural proposal during the debate and after Mr Jelinčič's discussion. I'm really asking for order, and let's listen to Mr. Jelinčič move on.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u164	Rule 72, Madam President, allow me to read it to you. This is still the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u165	The president can, and I don't want to, please continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u166	Yeah. The chairman shall suspend the work of the national assembly if it is found that the meeting is no longer final.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u167	Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u168	It says the third paragraph, it doesn't say easy, but to stop. "The President shall terminate the work of the national assembly if it is found that the meeting is no longer final" and then "if consultation is necessary, if the opinion of the working bodies or the government is to be obtained, and in other cases, where the national assembly so decides". And please, that's what the third paragraph of Article 72 says. It is evident that it is inconclusive, so please, if it is final, please ask or request a check or check the conclusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u169	Mr. Victory, I insist on my explanation and please continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u170	How?
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u171	Please continue your debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u172	I think we're going to complain to the business committee. [[...]] However, I am strongly protesting, strongly protesting against the dictatorial way of leading the national assembly and against the usurpation of power by the LDS or coalition, which is also willing to sink Slovenia, only to subdue it, and perhaps some private interests. We stayed with the European Court of Justice. The European Court of Justice has repeatedly stressed its co-responsibility - I will repeat this last sentence, because some already do not understand what I am saying, but some have probably forgotten, so once again, Madam President, I will read this. Therefore, the Court of Justice of the European Union has repeatedly stressed the Union's responsibility for the injury suffered and has also attached to the injured person that his country is responsible for the compensation. The basis for the common responsibility of the State guarantee was defined by the European Court of Justice by a decision of 19.11.1991, as follows: "1. The fundamental Treaty of the European Union has established its own legal order to be implemented by the Member States, in particular their courts. The legal entities of this acquis are not only Member States but also individuals to whom common law imposes rights and obligations. Such rights and obligations do not exist only where the Treaty expressly lists them, but also under the common uniform obligations imposed by the Treaty on Member States and bodies of the European Union. 2. In view of the continued case law, national courts applying the provisions of common law must ensure the effect of these standards and protect the rights conferred on individuals by European Union law. 3. The effectiveness of common legal solutions would be diminished and the protection of rights reduced if individuals, both natural and legal, were not given the opportunity to seek compensation if their rights under European Union acts were affected." It should be stressed, however, that this act specifically protects property rights, namely the first Protocol to this Act. It is interesting that Slovenia has signed or committed itself to this act and there is evidence in Article 3 that Europe has never requested such an act from us or that such an act would be adopted or closed down free-of-customs shops, since it is precisely the third point of this Decision of 19.11.1991 that confirms it. There is accurate evidence in here that it was a private game of certain Slovenian political officials, ministers, presidents, and I don't know who else. 4. In order not to be forgotten, I am reading the basis for the common responsibility of the State guarantee as defined by the European Court of Justice in its decision of 19.11.1991. The fourth point is: "The possibility of compensation via a Member State does not allow the full application of the rights of entities granted by acts of the European Union if the activity of the State is abandoned, in particular the courts, in order to exercise rights before national courts." In short, it is possible for PCPs to complain directly because this country has done so much in its own way in all areas. 5. The grounds for guaranteeing the damage caused to the entity by a breach of common law are also inseparable infringements of the basic contractual acts, that is, primary law. 6. Member States' obligation to compensate for damage is defined in Article 5 of the Treaty of Establishment by which Member States must take general or specific measures to comply with their obligations under common law. In short, the Republic of Slovenia, which would like to come to the European Union before it enters the European Union, is in breach of certain regulations of the European Union. Beautiful. I would like to know what these gentlemen have received from some European Commissioners, so much so that they are so heated that this must be closed. I'm really curious. In its Decision 199/82, published in the 1983 ECR, on page 3595, the European Court of Justice laid down the conditions of liability on the basis of acts of the European Union, in particular Directives. First of all, the European General Act should contain a prescribed objective relating to the protection of the rights of the individual entity. The content of such an act must clearly determine the right, the causal link between the infringement caused by the State and the damage caused to the entity must be given. It's 18 years old. It seems that our lawyers, who are so much in favour of European law, have not been able to read it or maybe the European Commissioners have not shown it because they have shown only a few things that they are then dragging the Slovenian Parliament down here, which, of course, is a happy participant and contributes to the sinking of their own country. I am saying all this because, in the case of closure of PCPs, it is an alienation and a restriction. It is necessary to request or provide for compensation in the event of alienation and in the case of restriction. In determining the amount of compensation for the alienation, that is, the decommissioning, and the limitation - it must be said that in this case there is no doubt that it is an exclusion, which means decommissioning - that there is a foreign unilateral focus on market value in this case, not the principle of equivalence, but a fair weighting of the general interest and the interest of the affected. The law governing compensation lays down appropriate criteria, and the replacement of the seized goods may also be made by the rule of full equivalence. An important element in deciding on the last solution is in the theory of special victims, which affects only a smaller circle, but to a significant extent, in this case the victims are privileged in a certain way. This is exactly what we are looking at when we close free-carrying shops. An important criterion has also been the result of the injury. In such cases, the rule should be that the injured person receives such compensation that, at the time of the compensation, he may obtain a cause or right of the same kind or good. That's what Europe requires. We who go to Europe get excited about this, not at the request of Europe, but because of the placating of our own officials or our own political February. Thus, the rule of objective replacement of the seized goods, taking into account rising prices in case of late payment, takes into account the benefits that the injured person may have suffered despite the deterioration. In any event, a real exchange should be made with the amount of compensation that has been paid to the affected person. This must be so measured that the injured person obtains the full equivalent of the seized. The injured person must obtain a truly equivalent thing as it was taken away from him. Thus, the law may lay down the principle of equivalence, appropriate compensation, the idea of compensation and the like. In the case of operations in establishments - this is a place of sale - account must be taken of the activities carried out or the activities carried out, not expected or desired in the future. The value of the reverse substance is taken into account when the substance is taken away and the legal position of the injured person is taken into account. The current state of affairs is protected and not possibly the protection of acquisitions. It is therefore a safeguard of the legal position of the holder of the regulated and carried out trades or activities, irrespective of possible future options, which also applies to the possible intentions of the increase of the establishment. In short, no one demands more than they have, no one is counting on them to increase the plant and to demand it from the state, but they only require a just solution, which has been cut short. The right to operate an establishment so far is protected, except in cases where an increased investment has already begun. In no case has an increased investment been initiated. But if it had been started, it would have just bounced off. Very simple. Only the planned solution of the plant, carefully prepared, which has not yet become the substance of the plant, is not taken into account. An investment that is so ready to be implemented immediately is covered by compensation. That is to say, what has already been built, built, window replacement, door replacement, new shelves, acquisition of new material in PCP, and this must be taken and covered in compensation. In assessing damage to an establishment, account shall be taken of ladders serving the economic activity. And these are just the ones that were listed. An asset intervention may cause particular damage by not investing in the plant and thus technologically lagging behind competition. There has also been a breach here, although minor, because there has been a limitation of the PCP and its sale, for some time now on the wallpaper, while no one has embarked on any of the hollow freedoms in Greece as yet, but it is already in the European Union, not in Italy, which was abolished last August, not in any other European country that has actually just renamed its free customs trade and is now not called a duty free, but today they are called Treval values, but they are operating in the same way as they used to do before. We're the only Slovenians we're gonna shut down. However, it is also necessary to take into account whether the intervention has been carried out only in part of the property, or whether the remaining part cannot therefore be used for the management, in such a case the injured party is entitled to request the State to take over the remaining part and to pay the compensation for it. This is a case where this law says that in these former PCPs, ordinary trade will be opened. A common store, 500 meters or on a border strip, will no longer be a common store. There will be no ordinary trade, since travel to this intermediate zone is necessary with a travel document, which means that there is a limited possibility of sale or purchase for each ordinary trade. This means that the State must buy out all properties from PCPs in such a way as to provide them with adequate compensation. There's no such thing in the marriage. However, there is one exception: the exception is that the rent may also be fixed for the property taken away. This is also possible when the goods are taken away and the value is measured according to the value of the asset taken. In short, it would be possible in the PCPs if the government had bought back from them, so to speak, everything in the PCPs and paid them back, but not at the prices applicable to the "duty-free" regime, but at normal prices. There's nothing in the law about that either. In the event that only the goods were seized, in this case the damage resulting from the confiscation of the goods must be replaced. The possibility is, of course, that the State builds these free-carinian shops elsewhere, but, of course, to the extent that the PCPs will have to close free-of-customs shops as far as planned or proven losses are concerned. However, the legal position of the injured person, in this case free-of-customs shops, is extremely important. The legal position of the injured person at the disposal of the compensation may be important. This may take into account the resulting damage that - for example - may occur in the construction of motorways or - for example - in this case, in the termination or refusal of the continued operation of free-of-carry shops. Well, Madam President, I'm going to do the right thing, and I'm going to cut this thing down a little bit. However, I will certainly not miss the fact that, in determining the value of the seized goods, the time when the matter was taken away, when it comes to the price ratio of real estate or movable property, but in the larger case of real estate, because the largest item is not on PCP shelves, but there are buildings, there is infrastructure around them, there are parking spaces and so on. And it doesn't matter whether it's an administrative act or a contract. The injured person must be provided with the option of compensating for the seized item so that he can provide a replacement. The second criterion, however, is the time of payment, as prices are, of course, changing. Today the price is this, tomorrow it can be higher or lower, this has to be taken into account. And the German practice, which has this well-managed, also takes up the time of the last oral hearing, or the time when the matter was dealt with, even instantaneous, with regard to the determination of the actual situation. Finally, the change in price can also be applied in the appeal procedure, even through a constitutional complaint, since it is either exceeded or encroached on property rights or property rights. In this case, too, the conduct of the injured person may be assessed if it has contributed to the delay of the case. However, this did not contribute to the delaying of the case, but the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and its designated authorities exceeded the competences and blackmailed the case as soon as possible, contrary to Article 5 of the Treaty of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and contrary to the basis of the Joint Responsibility Decision of 19.11.1991. However, there are also ex post separation costs. Indemnification or limitation of property rights does not apply only to damage to the loss of rights; it is also possible to compensate for the damage caused by them. When calculating the compensation, the objective signs of the property shall, as a rule, be taken into account in relation to the position, utility, equipment, construction and the like. As a specific, ex post cost, we consider all the costs necessary for the relocation of an establishment or apartment: the travel costs, the time when the plant was not used, the start-up costs at the new location, the reduction of the value of the company due to a new position or transition, the loss of a certain customer circle, which in this case will in fact be exclusive, as these customers who bought there will no longer be able to buy in the newly created PCP stores. However, this includes the costs of "macler" and pre-financing of the replacement facility. There is neither the spirit nor the hearing about this in the proposed law. However, if the costs to the owner of the remaining work are so high that the use of the new facility no longer makes sense, it is necessary to pay the value of the whole so far. And such a request may be made by the owner. However, the owner is entitled to get rid of, for example, the unnecessary part of the plot, which means that PCPs can be sold separately, say, that narrow green belt around the PCPs. Let us also go to constitutional court practice in Slovenia. In the UI case 60/98, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia pointed out that the constitutional guarantee of ownership presupposes the existence of property as a legal institution: what is the subject of private property and which protected property entitlements lays down legal order, taking into account economic and social relations in general. In doing so, it must take into account the purpose of constitutional protection of property, that is to ensure and realize the individual's freedom. Here we are! Even today, freedom was denied to a member of the National Assembly, a member of the Slovenian National Party here talking about the deprivation of freedom to some other entities, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia or legal persons of the Republic of Slovenia. That the essential element of freedom with matters and rights that are subject to property has already been decided by the European Court of Human Rights, this is the Marx v. Belgium judgment [[If anyone wants - a colleague who's all set up to write numbers isn't here, so I'll tell him where the case was published.]] The definition of ownership under the Slovenian Constitution includes its economic, social and environmental function [[This is the 67th Article of the Slovenian Constitution]] . The legislator is obliged to balance the individual and community element of ownership. In several decisions, the Constitutional Court has already adopted the view that constitutional rights infringements are subject to a strict constitutional assessment following a so-called proportionality test. According to the latter, after this test, an intervention is allowed only if it is necessary or unavoidable for the protection of other human rights. Nor should the intervention be excessive, which means that only the mildest of possible interventions, with which a constitutionally permissible and desirable objective can be ensured, is the protection of the equally important rights of others. In this case, it may be entities or legal persons. This Slovenian constitutional court, which seems to some to be just like this, over the shoulder. It is clear from this summary of the Constitutional Court’s decision that strict conditions must be met in order to take or intervene in property. In this law, it is the taking away of the more powerful. We have a two-thirds majority, and we're gonna do it, and you guys break up and do what you want! I'm not saying it won't work, it'll probably work, but it will bring about a strange black drop and a black stain on the Slovenian constitution and on some political parties. A similar problem was addressed by the Constitutional Court in Decision UI-313/98 of 16.3.2000. In this decision, the court points out that an intervention in constitutional law is only possible by law and that it is not possible to give the Government the power to issue the amount of compensation by means of a sub-law. The third paragraph of Article 15 of the Constitution allows for the restriction of human rights or fundamental freedoms in two cases: when the right is restricted by the rights of others and in cases provided for in the Constitution. In the Constitution, the possibility of restricting property rights, including confiscation, is explicitly envisaged for the purpose of decommissioning property, i.e. Article 69 of the Constitution. Such restrictions on constitutional rights for the protection of the rights of others or for reasons of public interest shall be permissible only if they comply with the principle of proportionality. Therefore, if they are at all appropriate for the protection of these other rights, if the protection of this objective is necessary and the objective is not otherwise attainable, either by means of a milder remedy or by a milder intervention in constitutional law, and if the gravity of an intervention in one constitutional right is, in order to protect another constitutional right, also in proportion to the weight, so-called weight, of protected constitutional rights in the stricter meaning of the word. So the law that we have here is eloquently unconstitutional, and if we let go of breaking the rules of procedure of the National Assembly! If we let them be two marriages that they should be in the debate, they're not. If we let it go, what do I know, for a quick procedure that is not excusable, etc. The determination of compensation is possible only by law and only by law, as the rule of law requires legal relations between the State and citizens to be governed by laws, in accordance with the principles of the rule of law and that the legal provisions are clear and unequivocal. Here the legal provisions are not clear or unambiguous, even less unequivocal are some amendments than one of the amendments that says: In the border stores goods can be bought, services paid and money returned also in foreign cash, which is actually very 'unkind'. After all, all PCPs did business mostly in foreign currency. In addition, if we go to Europe it will be here one way or another; either it means foreign currency euro, or it means that we will have Slovenian tolars next to the euro, or maybe it means that we will buy in euros and maybe even in Libyan dinars, or maybe it means that we will buy in Slovenian tolars, in euros and even in Afghans - I don't know what they have there, coins or whatever. In order to avoid arbitrary decision-making, the legislator should also lay down, in addition to the relevant criteria and criteria, a decision-making procedure for the exercise of substantive duties. In particular, if the general rules of the ZUP do not apply in the present case, this is the case with the Administrative Procedure Act. This legislator, the government of the Republic of Slovenia, did not give it because it did not seem worth it, because they said anyway: It will go through because it has to go through because it is written in a coalition contract and the Slovenes "how" looks. The law must therefore provide for a method of material compensation for the injured person, since the cases are completely different from those applicable to compensation under the bond ratios. According to the proposal for amendments to the customs law, free-of-customs shops are to be abolished at the request of the European Union authorities before Slovenia enters the European Union. In existing shops, goods are to be sold at the same prices and conditions as within the customs territory in the future, as within the country. In this regard, the proposal for a law on specific measures for the control of shops at road border crossings should also be taken into account. Following this proposal, stores will have to keep a specific inventory of goods and will also be subject to customs control. Each customer will have to enable the inspection and investigation of the goods purchased, provide documents and clarifications, have a special account, the goods purchased must be stored in a closed bag, a completely different and unequal legal position of the traders and buyers themselves will be introduced. Here we are again under Article 14 of the Constitution. That is to say, gentlemen, what's going to happen, briefly said if anyone doesn't understand it: if someone buys chocolate in this store, they'll have the right to stop it in Ljubljana, pull it out of the car, they'll have to raise their hands, they'll have to stand up like that, with their legs spread out on the car, and they'll search for everything in the car, and if it's possible that chocolate has already eaten, and he's committed a customs offence because the goods aren't there anymore! What's going on here, and what's this country up to?Oh, my God! He makes a joke out of everything and makes a fool out of citizens and citizens! In order to comply with some European gentlemen who do not care so much because they do not like servants there, they do not need - I have already told you who they consider to be servants. And counting on the average mental health of persons crossing the border, traffic in these shops will fall, clearly because there is no reason for buyers to be exposed to specific customs and special police controls if the same goods can be obtained under the same conditions anywhere in Slovenia. And why would he go to the border to buy if, at the same prices, he gets it in Ljubljana, but he doesn't have to be afraid that the cops with the pendrek will beat him in the kidneys and that the customs will "screw" him in his pockets and elsewhere else. All the calculations that indicate that traffic will not fall are puzzled by logic. It's clear to everyone that something like this just can't happen and that it doesn't drink water, it doesn't work. Undoubtedly, traffic will fall, so markedly that the issue of the economic justification for the continuation of trade or, according to the domestic statement, people will be on the road. On the road, for example, there will be a whole bunch of people in the Koro region, in Primorsko, a whole bunch of people in Styria; and every man has a family, he has children, he has no idea who, maybe a husband, a woman or what, a son, a daughter, they are also dependent on the service of these people. [[...]] And the Slovenian government, which is so very concerned about employment policy, because, as I have heard recently - it seems - unemployment is almost zero, then the government will provide these people with a peaceful service and everything else. This government is playing! He's playing with people! What's the most pig-playing? He's playing with their existence. He's playing with the possibility of survival. And that's not fair. I know that some gentlemen in the government, they don't care if the Slovenians and the Slovenes are provided with everything, but the most important question is, if there's a conference in a fashion town, if there's a pool in there. This is more important than anything. As I have already said, this raises a particular cost issue with current employees. After the adoption of the contested law, it will be necessary to give redundant workers a cancellation of the employment relationship according to the rest of the traffic, which will be significantly reduced. In doing so, it is necessary to take into account the cancellation deadlines, the possible repayments of emoluments and other duties. This may result in high costs which will not be covered by falling traffic. And the reasons for this are in the proposed changes to laws or in the new law. In short, people on the road, Europe will applaud us, a Europe that does not "smart us" and for which it is now after the meeting in Nice, the only person in the world who said that the meeting in Nice was a success was our Prime Minister, Mr Drnovšek. All the other presidents of all countries said that the meeting in Nice was a fiasco. And if, as a conclusion, I take it together a little, in accordance with Article 69 of the Constitution, there is an expected change in the customs law to restrict property rights, because the way in which the business is going and the property is being disposed of is an important part of the property actually expected. On the basis of the constitutional provision cited above, it is necessary to lay down the basic rules on compensation, since in this case it is not a compensation under the ZOR - it is a law on bond relations if no one does not know what ZOR is. If the law does not determine how compensation is to be settled, it will be contrary to the Constitution. And that's not what this law stipulates. They must consider whether it makes sense to keep the stores or to demand, on the basis of German practice, that the state take over all facilities and supplies and pay them at regular prices, including the costs of employees who will cease their work. And I hope and I think the PCPs will do it. It is also possible to maintain the facilities, but to establish the basic criteria for calculating the compensation, since the rules of the bond law are not applicable in this case. Everything will have to be determined in the negotiations and the Slovenian government does not agree or take them with its left hand. To this end, an analysis of the value of each facility should be made, state approvals should be indicated for each facility and the rights acquired should be demonstrated and the indicators to be taken into account by the State authority in determining the compensation should be found. At the same time, the authorities and procedures, including the complainants, should also be established. This marriage has nothing written in it. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, all of us, or you, who think as they have told you - which is not 'disputing', have been told, I only appeal to your conscience and reason, although perhaps a little difficult, because to appeal to something that some do not have is difficult. However, it is important to note, however, that this national assembly will in turn have a constitutional dispute and, if necessary, also a dispute before the European Court of Justice, since it is undoubtedly about the rights acquired, in particular by restricting traffic and increasing costs due to the payment of all public burdens. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u173	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Aloise Peterle would like to see you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u174	Your Honor! I haven't forgotten anything! We are at the beginning of our term of office and it would be right to act in accordance with laws, including the rules of procedure of the National Assembly, from the beginning of our term of office. I am not here representing the content of Mr Jelinčič's performance, but I am speaking with reference to Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure. In fact, Article 70 clearly states that the President-in-Office shall give the floor to a Member who wishes to speak on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure as soon as requested. Why now, why not just after someone has spoken to them? Because he can talk for three hours and we're three hours in a foul. And that's where we were. I'm on my way. Article 72 of our Rules of Procedure states that the Chairman-in-Office of the National Assembly shall, if he finds that the meeting is no longer final and shall not contain any indication that this can be determined only before the vote or before the decision or - the meeting begins, we know that it is different. Then we have Article 85, which in the first paragraph accurately sets out the presence at the beginning of the meeting, before each vote and at the beginning of the adjourned session. If these were the only options for determining the presence, then paragraph 2 would not be paragraph 2, which says: "The presence at the meeting may also be determined during the meeting if the Chair finds that it is necessary to verify the quorum." [[...]] [[The response from the bench.]] Wait, wait, please, you don't have the right to speak yet. [[...]] Why should it be necessary to check the conclusion between the votes if the Chamber may be empty, if there is no need to be concluded in between, then there is no point in paragraph 2 of this Rules of Procedure or of this Article. Read it carefully! And that is why we had the practice of identifying the presence in the middle, and I say that he was violated in the conduct of Article 70 because the Member who wanted to talk about the breach did not get the word immediately. I understand the word "so" as it says. So I ask that we act consistently in accordance with the rules of procedure as it is and is not perfect. I know American and some other practice, but they also have rules that allow for such practice. Sometimes he talks about the chairman and the congressional work only the one who talks. But everyone else is in the rooms, and they come in when the vote is taken; but this rule of procedure does not allow us to do so. I suggest we write it that way, but as long as it's not anywhere, it doesn't say anywhere that we can work in an unconscionable composition. That is why I wanted to say that we would also be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure when Member Jelinčič speaks.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Let me explain. My explanation was in line with current practice, but I agree that we should take the initiative of the Rules of Procedure Commission to set precise rules for the game in these cases. Thank you very much. Do you want it now? Mr Peterle, you signed up for the debate on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go. I'm sorry, I'd have Mr. Anderlich on a procedural basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u176	Your Honor! There are some arrangements or promises, or whatever, that the meeting of the national assembly is to be concluded today. There is already a lot of talk in the halls that tomorrow will also be a meeting and, of course, also a great opposition, that this is already a bad job at the beginning and that it would not be right to say, "We will finish Thursday" and work on Friday. Therefore, I have a procedural proposal that, in view of the genuine wide debate in the working body for finance and also in the public, once again in the corridors and similarly to conclude today's meeting, and today, the first debate of this law, and that, if I am properly informed tomorrow, the College will determine when, in January, the first regular meeting of the National Assembly - that both the Government, the Committee and the proposed amendments and all interested parties will re-examine any possible changes they wish to make in the proposal made by the Government in January and the amendments that the Government has also tabled and are the basis for our consideration, that the six discussers who are still reported are still on my request or on behalf of those who also make this procedural proposal - to shorten the discussion, as far as possible, to the extent that many of the arguments that have been raised against them, that they are too much, and that they do not think too much against themselves. And if this means that we are having a first hearing today and we are having a further hearing in January, then there would be so much time left that we can carry out the other agenda items that are on the agenda - I think there are two or three more, because it doesn't matter, so that we don't go into a breach of the rules of procedure. However, since there is some embarrassment in one of the following points, which has not yet been completed, which is not eliminated, namely the creation of working bodies, I propose that after this point the meeting of the National Assembly be suspended after half an hour, that a meeting of Kviaz be convened and that a proposal be put in place for two supervisory working bodies, namely the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances and the Committee - or vice versa - I do not remember now - of the Committee on Security and Intelligence Services. As such, Parliament has an obligation under its responsibility to oversee the security and intelligence services and to monitor the budget and other public finances, since you are all aware that there are still a number of things that are not yet negotiated regarding the division of labour bodies, thus leaving open the possibility for us to arrange everything until the regular January session: the division of labour bodies between the opposition and the position in proportion to the principle that we have agreed on throughout the entire time; so that the Commission on Nationality and the Committee on Slovenians around the world, and I think that petitions and six commissions, and some other committees, that these discussions continue and that we do what we can and must do today - so that Parliament will ensure that these services are supervised. This is my procedural proposal, with this provision, that if this takes a minute after 18:00, to take this into account and, in fact, to end the year 2000, as far as I am concerned, Mr Brenčič, I would like to suggest to these gentlemen and ladies who are reported that they can shorten these discussions and all of this under specific amendments, because I believe that there are still more discussions in the fast process with the amendments than in the general debate, because the amendments are bound both to specific deadlines and to the content of the restructuring of these shops and not so much to the general debate, because in the general debate we have already heard a lot. [[...]] I repeat the procedural proposal. I propose that we conclude this item today with a first reading, move it to a January meeting to meet with Kviaz, propose a proposal for two supervisory committees and, if necessary, extend today's meeting for a few minutes and do not continue tomorrow's meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Is it necessary to summarise Mr Anderlich's procedural proposal? So, Mr Anderlič proposed that we vote under 1: on a procedural proposal, to conclude today's first reading of the proposal for a law on specific measures of control of shops at road border crossings and to postpone the second and third reading of the bill to the January regular meeting of the National Assembly. To suspend the meeting after the main hearing, so that Kviaz can meet and try to form two supervisory committees of the National Assembly. And to conclude at today's meeting all items of the agenda that have been adopted for the 3rd extraordinary session. This procedural proposal in points 1, 2 and 3 shall be put to the vote. There are 51 Members and Members present. We vote on the procedural proposal under points 1, 2 and 3. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that Mr Anderlic's procedural proposal has been adopted, so we are continuing the debate. Mr Peterle, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! I was now ahead of the choice whether to take a decision that, in my opinion, definitely postpones Slovenia's entry into the European Union within the desired time limits, I am still speaking. This decision is completely contrary to the report and the findings of the report and the government itself, because the government here itself says, "it appreciates that further delaying the regulation of this issue would seriously slow down or even endanger Slovenia's involvement in the EU". From the same party comes the proposal to postpone this once again - and we, if you'll excuse me, voted against it myself. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the third time that the credibility of Slovenian politics, the Slovenian government, is questioned. Today I wanted to propose that we renew the inter-party agreement on coordinated work on this joint project, where it has been achieved so far - except for plebiscite - the highest level of national political consensus on our objectives, on our future, so I will now consider whether to do so, because I would not like to participate in companies from which Slovenia cannot draw positive points and a good future. At the beginning of this performance, I would also like to speak a few procedural words, a little for the sake of memory, more for the sake of formality. See, when the representatives of the European Union asked at the beginning of the year when it was clear what the obligations of Slovenia with respect to the promise already made almost five years ago - I promise to say I will not talk about the names, but the promise was made that this issue would be settled in accordance with the debate, as this is the case - therefore, in view of this, it was officially said that Jelinčič had taken over the procedure with his proposal, as it is called. And then Christmas came to that, and there was something else -- I don't know, you were three candidates if I'm not wrong. All these laws have been published and have been - or in my opinion - still in the procedure. However, since we now have this coalition of reason, as the Work writes, it has been forgotten without the opinion of the Legislature that they are still formally in the process of two laws on the same subject, but not precisely with the same addresses; that in the procedure there is also a law so-called 'Bayuk's Government', which has acted as she said she will see if there is any room for manoeuvre, if not, she will propose that this matter be governed, and she has also proposed her legislative proposal on this subject. Look, and interestingly, suddenly Jelinčič no longer takes the procedure, Christmas does not take the procedure, here it has been shown that, of course, at this and most, it is possible to follow absolutely only the will of the government or coalition and to take from the procedure what is right for you right now. Then, as we've seen, put it off for the second year. I am here asking the secretariat for legislation how it is possible that this has happened, in the same motherhood that these bills are currently dealing with here, in this law. When Minister Bavčar explained history, he did not tell two key facts - I would add one more and I will - that the first deadline was 1.7.1998 and that the second deadline was 31.12.2000, so 10 days had this government, which did not say in February that it was indeed going as the Minister had said today. At that time, third in line, they gave their proposal to the law, and Brussels said that there was only a Parliament that was gradually working and would first address Jelinčič's, then Christmas, and then it would be the turn of the government. When we put this proposal into Parliament in Bajuk's government - I think that 23.8, as it says here, would say on an unusual date, he did not consider the secretariat for legislation, but he did consider the government proposal of February this year. It's so unusual! I'd even like to ask if there's anything back. So I'm really worried about this thing. It says here in this report, in the second paragraph, this sentence says: "For the European Union insists." See, the European Union does not insist, the European Union is just waiting or waiting. In my recent formal contacts with the representatives of the European Union, no one has mentioned this issue. That's all they said: you promised absolutely that case 31 will be settled, and we're waiting for it to be. At the same time, Verheugen has already told us when he was visiting here, what will happen if he does not, or what we are exposing ourselves to, and what the government also does in its paper - or the report summarises her assessment that it will be very difficult if the question put down twice is not settled in accordance with agreements or promises. So, Brussels doesn't put any pressure on us, but it expects us to keep our promise. Whoever gave it to me then didn't want me to polyminate. It says here that the European Union has included the issue of free-of-carry shops in the framework of negotiations. Look, the minister said that the dialogue and he said it was the right thing to say; but there has been no negotiations since the European Union, since this year - I think 1995 or 1996 - was promised by Slovenia; the promised and agreed things are not negotiated, ladies and gentlemen. This is the second failure of this report of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. But it is true that we have tried to move this matter forward, but it has proved that there is no room for manoeuvre. And then another unfortunate matter was told several times to the partners in Brussels that this year is a special year, that elections will be held and that there may be some difficulties in deciding on this issue. See, in Brussels and in Ljubljana and elsewhere, we know that the elections are every four years, and we knew that either October or November or maybe even December. So that there will be elections, there can be no excuse for either home or Brussels. And that's not an excuse. So whoever thinks of playing with this, that was Parliament, won't make it through. And the government is in its letter to Parliament this summer - and I think that in September again it wanted an extraordinary meeting of the State Assembly before the end of the term when it was time for this, and Parliament refused to adopt this law. For if this law were adopted at that time, it would be possible to adopt sub-legislative implementing acts at the appropriate time in order to meet the deadline of 31.12. So, in Brussels, as one of our Members was told, they look at the rule of law differently than in Belgrade, on which we were once dependent. And if the deadlines are not met twice, then I think we have clearly different views on what a partner means to bring twice around. There's something else I'd like to say about what else is going on in this history. Look, first the minister promised the case then the government was late to study what it meant to us. One of these studies was done - I think even ordered - only after the first deadline had expired. We are completely smiling, ladies and gentlemen, with such a procedure or with such a policy. So what do we have now? What do we have now? The same policy as the three successive mandates of Drnovšk: the policy of time distress, the gripping of Members just before the new year or Christmas, and now - as the Prime Minister said last time - has also said today that it is indeed going. The Member of Parliament, with a procedural proposal and the majority who followed him, did indeed fail in the following year. So why didn't it really happen in February when you put the proposal into the procedure? Why didn't it really work in March when you could have dealt with the matter, and you were talking to Jelinčič and Christmas? Why was it not really in July when your marriage could be considered? Why was it not really September when there was an opportunity to deal with this or that marriage? We could go to extraordinary meetings because I remember what you were saying at the time, that Jelinčič and Christmas's law should be given out of procedure and then dealt with by the government. We could do this with the same extraordinary session and we'd have things covered. So, what is happening now is undoubtedly delaying the commitment made by Slovenia itself will undermine our additional credibility in [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u179	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u180	The process of Slovenia's entry into the European Union and, if so, I will use the public and parliamentary options to properly ask myself who really is in the interest of going there, which we have officially identified. [[...]] If you ask the negotiators, John the Potočnik at the head, they will tell you, as officials, not as politicians, exactly what the weight of not fulfilling these or similar promises is. And it is now happening, instead of bringing together political forces in this house and elsewhere around the joint project on which we have been working these years on the opposition's proposal, instead of renewing this agreement to indicate how, in this crucial year of this mandate, we can still influence the dynamics of how to connect forces; instead, there are additional monopolizations of the foreign policy functions of Slovenian policy, instead of cooperation - exclusion and instead of swift decision-making so many coalitions - suspension of decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we're going the wrong way. New Slovenia does not approve of such a route. She expected the unity of this coalition in the government and in Parliament, and of course we already have two coalitions: one decision in the government, the other in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are approaching a darker day on our way to the European Union, and I very much regret this.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Reploco wanted Mr. Gaspari. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. We now have debates on the groups of Members. Any other parliamentary group would like to discuss it? Mr. Kelemina, please, on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u182	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together. Not to repeat everything that has already been said, I will try to be as rational and brief as possible. I would only say that the Social Democratic Party has adopted in its programme the starting points in which we support Slovenia's involvement in European integration, but we have somehow imagined this integration in such a way that Slovenia fulfils certain conditions and is then, of course, involved in these integrations and that we are then accepted by the European Community as a prepared member. Of course, we did not imagine that these conditions for entry into European integration or entry into the European Union would be usable by making some impossible promises that we cannot then fulfill. I would point out, however, that we firmly believe that our own, in the Socialist Party's Group, that these promises, which have been made, are unnecessary, that they have been premature and that we believe they are also harmful. According to our assessment, there has been a so-called harmful looping of the LDS policy over the past period. While the government, in particular Minister for European Affairs, Mr Bavcar, argued the opposite in discussions on the working bodies. Also, the material they have provided suggests that there are positive benefits, positive national economic effects, but it is humanely asked who is then benefiting from these free-carrying shops. The European Community demands and insists, therefore, on the basis of these promises, which we have made uncontrolledly to close - why insist on it? Is it because the European Community has a profit or because the European Community has a loss? So who is right here, of course, the question is certainly very clear. The same is true of the question, say, of the conditions set by Italy regarding the price of petrol in Italy. I'm sure that's why Italy has lost, but we certainly have a bigger loss in this area. And of course it's the same with the Austrians about cigarettes. So they protect their interests, and we obviously don't know how to protect our interests in this case. In view of the fact that the Minister advocates the closure of free-carrying shops, without any conditions - well, now some additional conclusions have been drawn up by the Committee or individuals - so that some conditions will only bind to this closure if we have to do so to maintain our credibility, that is, that Italy and the Austrians also take certain measures or that the European Community define whether other measures imposed against us are not discriminatory. Well, to really shorten this, look, we're also very surprised that now, all of a sudden, the government coalition or, above all, the most powerful party has decided to move the matter forward. I think sanctions will be difficult, but we as the opposition party in this process cannot decisively influence. For the time being, we will be completely satisfied, although this will be considered to be the final stage in the harm to Slovenia as a whole and to the Slovenian people, that all responsibility for this move will be taken by the ruling coalition, fully and above all by the LDS, as well as by the Secretary of State, Mr Bavčar. And it is on the basis of this responsibility that they are aware of and are also taking over, that we will build our next policy and follow closely all the negative effects that will arise in this regard, and then, of course, we will also, if necessary, if it turns out that this is not the way that you yourself have demonstrated in all these documents, set certain conventions. I also have to mention, and I would just like to ask you in a purely constructive manner and politely ask you - the coalition - to try to save the burden of the National Assembly and also the Finance Committee. In fact, what you've been doing on this committee is better to forget as soon as possible. I will not reopen it here now, but I want you to forget it as soon as possible and to agree in advance, as your coalition agreement says, how you will reconcile these things and with coordinated proposals comes to the National Assembly, to the working bodies, so that you will not put these various amendments into the individual group and individuals, because even the coalition treaty prohibits you from doing so. You take care of her yourself if you've set her up! And I ask you kindly for the savings and unnecessary restrictions of the Institute of the National Assembly and the Committee as such; do something not to repeat the system of work as it appeared in the previous call of the National Assembly. Do it, I'll put it on your heart. We will, of course, support those amendments and fully try to support them in some way and those amendments that we will consider to be least harmful to Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word on behalf of the MPs? Mr Gaspari, on behalf of the LDS delegation, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u184	Madam Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I would like to say briefly what we think would be the wisest thing to do at this point. For the first time, I think that the issue of free-carrying stores is marginal compared to other economic issues facing Slovenia both on the inside and in relation to the European Union. Marginally from the point of view of damage and benefit brought by this part of the activity in Slovenia. And that should probably be the case. The questions raised in this regard, which are important to us and to me, are related to the European Union. Mr. Peterle said that he thought that we had made a promise or that he was sure that we had made a promise and that this promise should be accepted. I must say that, of course, there was a legal issue in this case, and it was never completely cleared that there was some interpretation of the political commitment, which built the view that the deadline given in the middle of 1998 - and also later deadlines were binding on the Republic of Slovenia. Binding from the point of view of association to the European Union, not full membership in the European Union, because this is not a question of full membership, but of association. It is true that this has now emerged as a question of full membership in at least two negotiating groups, which, of course, is bad enough to open up additional chapters or points of negotiating positions. However, this is a fact. From this point of view, I think it is therefore necessary to continue this debate as quickly as possible, but there is a need to reach a consensus in the National Assembly that will prevent the obstruction of decision-making at this point. If I can only replicate to Mr Peterlet, who has come forward - not even a quarter or a hundred percent will help, or a hundred percent will help, and 99 percent will help, but no longer because the obstruction can be carried out correctly by a two-thirds majority in Parliament. So if there is no obstruction, then this meeting or this area may continue normally. If the aim is to obstruct, then I think it is important to ask why obstruction is taking place - or should occur - and what are the co-elements that want to bring this discussion to light. If these are elements of an economic nature, of course the law can save them. I myself believe that there are no very large economic problems here, except social ones, and for that number of people who could really become social cases - so there are mechanisms under consideration by other legislation, and this law has provided some solutions in this area. The second problem, which is obviously very pressing for many fellow Members and colleagues, is the date of entry into force. I believe, and I hope that we all feel that it is essential that the law be adopted as soon as possible, even before the new year. Its enforcement, however, I believe that for economic reasons it does not have any very prestigious significance. We could probably find a common solution on the date proposed by the government or very little-moved dates, because the months themselves in this movement do not bring what the economy is supposed to bring. If the measures are well established, if those who have to take the measures - and these are mainly businesses - are ready or ready to do so quickly, because they are not a large number of people, then I believe that it is a guarantee, legally and economically, that these measures can be implemented in practice, within the time limit referred to by the Government or at most a month more than that. At the end of the day, I'd like to put two more questions together. I think that negotiations with the European Union, however, need to highlight some of the problems. I hope that the government or representatives of the government will agree. The problems caused by this problem were not the questions that Slovenia would ask or cause with its economic power. They weren't even cigarettes on the Austrian border, it wasn't even the price of gas on the Italian border. Slovenia, with two million people and 20 billion dollars of social product, cannot threaten the economic integrity and performance of Italy and not Austria, nor the Cororian or the market landscape, it is economically illogical; it is therefore politically opportunistic to demand, and it has been politically exploited - both on both sides, Austria and Italy. I think that, at the moment when Slovenia, for the first time - not at this time, but for some time - has also changed its policy in the field of oil derivatives prices, not because of Italy or Austria or the European Union, but because of its own economic interests, and when it adopts a law that will definitively end, it has abolished the status of these shops or shops, which are now tax and customsly more favourable than other competitions in Slovenia, there is no longer any reason for the Republic of Italy or the Republic of Austria to insist on their actions in the market or in the region of Cora. What Mr Peterle said would be considered or justified, however, would even be the fair position of the European Union or the relationship to contribute, within the framework of its powers, to its members or to influence its members, namely Italy and Austria, to put an end to those measures, or it would be very easy to conclude that the rules of the game in force in the European Union are discriminatory. As an economist, it is quite clear that Italy's action on the price of petrol is discriminatory by economic logic, because it is impossible for goods sold as single goods throughout the economic and legal space to have more than one price. This is economically illogical, legally and politically also possible within the European Union, although this is one single economic and social space. And I think we owe it to and even to raise this out loud and demand it. At the same time, of course, we are aware of and adopted a law that essentially changes the customs and tax status of certain shops, which does not, of course, eliminate the status of such shops at those borders that are not the borders of the European Union until Slovenia is a member of the European Union. In this way, I think that if we find this agreement, including with those Members or Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament who wish to postpone the debate in the National Assembly in order to continue this meeting, we will bring it to the end that - or at least we will reach the end of the first debate today, which would allow the Government to prepare the appropriate, if necessary, additions or opinions for the second reading, and that the debate will continue tomorrow or at the latest immediately after New Year's holidays, because we have only one day left. I do not think it is useful to postpone this issue, but at the same time to impose certain requirements, because we are negotiating with the European Union, not agreeing and not only accepting, but we are negotiating that in this case we can request in negotiations on the same bodies where we are now negotiating free trade, including the abolition of measures on the part of the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Italy, because otherwise we do not have to count on what is a constant focus of this European Union for an equal and non-discriminatory way of dealing with everyone, both members and those who join the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss it on behalf of the groups? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to the Procedural Proposal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u186	In view of the apparent violation of the Rules of Procedure, which you have repeatedly violated in today's paragraph, even now, when one political party representative discussed the views of another political party, which were exposed to the speech of the head of the parliamentary group, the Slovenian national party, pursuant to Article 92(2), requires one hour of rest for the purpose of the consultation.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u187	Again before the strange task, the practice of interpreting to this day was to suspend the meeting at the request of the group before the decision was taken. Before the decision is taken, we are now in the middle of a debate by the groups of Members. And that's why we wouldn't stop until we're done. Any other parliamentary groups would like a word? If not, we are moving on to the debate of Members, first of all those who have declared themselves in writing to the debate. First, Mrs. Sonja Areh Lavrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u188	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Members. I come from the province of Cora, where we have several customs shops on our border arrivals with Austria Vič-Holmec-Radje. This is also about 60 employees. Since unemployment in the province of Cora is such a big problem, I would also like to remind you that the transformation of these shops is not a solution, because we already have a bigger trading house like SPAR, etc. in the immediate vicinity of these PCs. It will also be known in the money invested in various infrastructures in Koroška by free-of-customs shops. There wasn't much money. Besides, we're not in Europe yet, and we probably won't be having a good time. Why don't we just say, "No." And we would be more determined, then 'yes', when we are fully confident of EU membership. The closure or conversion of PCs are also opposed by all mayors of 12 Koro municipalities, as well as groups of SNS members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Sašo Pece applied next. He's not here. After him, Mr. Bogdan Barovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u190	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. I am among those who have participated in the very fruitful and boisterous work of the Monetary Policy and Finance Committee. That is why I am obliged to say some things after all this effort and work, which I think are particularly important for the National Assembly. Indeed, it is right that Mr Peterle reminded us of the consequences of failing to keep his promises, but I would like to complement him with the fact that no one is opposed to the fact that certain commitments of a legal nature are respected, but not at all costs and not all that are made up. Look, when we were working on this committee, I apologize, but when we look at these amendments and the bill itself, I'm ashamed to say that this is one "scrupulous" we've been doing ourselves. It's like for the first time we've heard that we have to make some kind of law that we're going to fulfill some political promise with. In addition, I would like to complement Mr Kelemino, who said that he was responsible for the coalition, in the government coalition. That's not true! The responsibility lies precisely with this national assembly, which is a legislative body. We'll all answer after we've adopted this law, because we'll accept it. But if he's bad, we'll all be responsible. No one claims that the Slovenian National Party, which has the most concerns, is absolutely against non-compliance at all. However, we are convinced that this law would be designed to be, we will say, useful to the Slovenian country in confronting the European Union; and, on the other hand, to the European Union, which will also recognise our Slovenian identity, our attitude and sometimes our conditions when we join the European Union. They told me if you wanted to get somewhere, if you wanted to achieve something, you had to do something. Yes, but why there is always only one side - I am sure that sometimes there is a need for two parties to show goodwill; that is, Slovenia by its actions, adopting legislation to join the European Union, and, on the other hand, the European Union, which promises only now. The worst part of all this is that - I will give one parallel - we keep all promises to Slovenians, and we are not yet in the European Union, this is like I should respect those laws that are just in preparation. So briefly in this first reading, when we think about it, of course, we will talk about it later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Pavel Rupar, who is not currently in the hall, applied next. Then Mr. Ferry Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u192	Thank you for your word. I will respect the invitation to be as brief as possible. I'm not going to repeat what my colleagues said. Above all, I strongly agree with what my colleague Gaspari has said. Just let me have a few sentences. We are faced with a dual responsibility, both by the Members and by the Government. One is a commitment to the European Union, and that is why - regardless of the circumstances and the history of the promise and everything that followed - I am in favour of adopting the law [[I'm sorry we won't accept it today.]] . However, I think it is good, and here I support the proposal, which was also voted on by Toneto Anderlich, to carry out at least the first hearing and that Minister Bavčar can report to Brussels that at least this first step has been taken. However, we must also be aware of another part of the responsibility - responsibility for the economic and social consequences. And that is what we have discussed most, both within the coalition and on the Committee on Finance, and that is why we have tabled amendments. It is no coincidence that we have been Members of Parliament when these amendments are being tabled, coming from areas where the most adverse consequences are to be expected - I am thinking mainly of job losses - from border areas that are less developed. And we cannot go beyond this responsibility, nor can we, nor can we rule. It is true that in the text of the amendments, in the first version offered by the Ministry of Finance for Coalition Coordination, there was more concrete record of what these regional policies and active employment policies will be. However, in the second version adopted by the Government, there have been rather more generalised formulations that do not guarantee that these measures will indeed be adopted. And that was the reason and the reason that we then put it primarily on articles 10a to 10d, I think, some amendments. The government has rejected these amendments. I propose that such a government, in addition to us Members who have tabled the amendments, reconsider two key issues. Two questions are essential, or - if you want - even disputed in this law. First of all, it's really a matter of time. The three-month conversion period is unrealistic, not only for technical reasons, but also for customs officials and others, but mainly because of the highly questionable possibility that the economic and social consequences could be eliminated or mitigated, I do not know what to do. Especially if we have temporary funding ahead of us, it is said that the budget is very limited. When someone referred to a coalition contract, it is very clear in the coalition contract, in addition to adopting the law by the end of the year, that a transformation programme should be made in the first quarter. By considering the deadline and being realistic and trying to extend it for at least a period of time. This allows the government to take certain aid measures where necessary, not to businesses, but especially where jobs will be lost. On the other hand, they also forced businesses to do their part as operators of this activity. And once again, let us examine together the solutions that have been given as a form of assistance in mitigating the economic and social consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Christmas, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u194	Thank you very much. I'm not going to talk procedurally, because I could have done it because for two years, I've been asking what it is about closing free-duty stores. I also received a very mediocre response on 18 November 1999 why Italy introduced a lower price for petrol on the other side of the border. And in February this year, I also tabled a proposal for a law to close free-of-customs stores only six months after our full-fledged membership in the European Union. I always say that what we're going to do is -- and we're going to do it, we're going to adopt a law that is political. Parliament is made up of political parties and it also sees legislation as such. Because I have to point out that I come from places where we had a lot of gas buyers. These are no longer available, and as a result, trade visits have been reduced. We have talked for many years about the need to increase the price of petrol, at least to avoid introducing on the other hand such a radical reduction in the price or subsidy received by sellers. We were talking about the local population having to get something from the casinos. For five years we have received nothing and then we have received in marriage part of the money from casino concessions as a suitable consumption of municipalities. Second. We have been talking for many years about concessions that should be obtained from power plants that benefit water in Slovenia. It's still nothing. We don't get anything from the grammes yet, and a few hundred thousand cubicles get it out of Soča every year, and the local population doesn't have any of it. And now we're gonna shut down the freeway shops. Okay. When colleagues first talked about our relations with the European Union, but you know, I come from a place where we have never been too servile and we don't want to be. The Italians have introduced their restrictions, we have not responded to them, and I fear that this restriction or different price of petrol in Italy will continue to apply in 2001, not only in these three years until now. This one may be rich, and in part he also showed a meeting in Nice. The Germans say, "We will not allow the free movement of labour in Europe for another seven years." Nice. And we're already on our knees. In the National Assembly we will, of course, adopt this law. We also wanted to join the coalition when we joined the Slovenian People's Party, the SLS+SKD, so that something in the law would also write about helping regions, about people who would lose their jobs. I've already said to myself that there are free-carinian shops a few miles from the village and not on the streets and that they would extend the deadline a little bit in this marriage. All this depends on the vote here in the National Assembly. I warn, however, that we are not looking well at the behaviour of all of us, all 90 Members of the National Assembly, how we will live in Slovenia. In fact, the spaces that are being emptied are in need of help, not the removal of the one from which many still live. I hope that in the future we will be more proud of the European Union, because it does not have to be on our knees, but on our feet, just as the pedestrian does.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloys Peterle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen. The Coalition, which is called the Coalition of Reasons, led the pensioners of thirst across the water yesterday. You've succeeded, for a while, with Brussels, I'm sure it won't. Through the reports of the European Commission, Brussels made the same criticism three times. And who has any communication, what contact with people who wish to help us in one way or another or representing the interests of the Member States in Slovenia, they say directly or subtlely that they are surprised that we do not react to repeated criticism from the same areas. Criticism concerns the weak functioning of the rule of law, particularly the judiciary, the lack of reforms in state administration, the slow privatisation of certain key areas; and this is what people with primary responsibilities are saying, the main issues are not really addressed. Look, now it's "Nica." I'll listen to the debate for a while because I don't want to disturb the gentlemen, and then I'll continue if I can. Thank you. See in Nice, which has practically passed, has not experienced a political debate in Slovenia; Nice means a green light for enlargement. And this behavior here today - by the way, the government could put this law, the proposal for a law at the first or the first extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. At least 14 days earlier, I could have given it to her, but she gave it to her for Christmas, which shows her attitude toward this issue. And we're happy to be outrun by all the countries that can and you know that we're in the Luxembourg Group, the real first group of candidates to come for hair. Anyone who reads foreign newspapers knows that we have been mentioned several times in another group, those who will join the Czech Republic. And you know that the last report says that Slovenia does not have a well-functioning market system, but that it could achieve this. This "bi" is scary for Slovenia, although Brussels also expresses hope, but it must be taken very seriously. Instead of dealing with how we will achieve our goals, some are now criticising the European Union as it is within us. So the European Union works exactly as it did from the beginning. It also defends the interests of its members and since we are not yet in the club, I would say certain things we cannot achieve and if Italy has complied with this - according to some discriminatory measure, they have protected certain interests in some competition just as a whole formation called the European Union. We can be critical of that. We can explain that they did not follow the rules, as some say, only they will listen to it with a smile and say, "Lord, we are waiting for you for the second time that we have agreed upon." And I'm saying, they're not pressing anything, they're just waiting. And now, I even had the idea to propose to both parties of the opposition, not to say any more, not to spend a minute on our side of the debate and not to experience the obvious that we are guilty of anything. When the decision is made, we'll just press the keys. And I can still suggest that the opposition is not to blame, as it is called. And in advance, someone was talking about obstruction, and I don't know on what basis. Obstruction of Slovenian interests is a delay with this decision. And now the debate is back on whether it was bad or good. This is a very interesting debate, but there is no time for this debate. The government itself said it wasn't good to delay. One of the former ministers said, let's do this as soon as possible. However, we have two more rumors, as I said, one would be for as soon as possible, but one would be put off and we have not yet found out, although I asked that, I would like to hear the minister who knows how long it takes for implementing measures then, if, for example, this thing is set up in March; because now, as you know, it will be January, then there will be holidays, which will continue to be excuses, given the time to decide. I want to know when the implementing rules will come to life, or how many of them are ready, and I'm interested. We are now discussing, above all, what has been a lot of debate on the European Commission in the previous term - now this Commission is not necessary at all, but now we are going to Europe and the Commission - so we are interested in the debate on what will happen if it does not, but not how Drnovsk's government decided on this subject five years ago. And I stress that the government has had enough time to come on time with this matter to parliament, but it has not come; I have my own explanation for this. Now there's one more thing. Look, there are crocodiles crying here by some. Crocodiles - why? Look, if I could hear people in this house talking so convincingly for thousands of jobs that went to Slovenia like this, but there was no transformation programme, and no state aid just like that, and no grants - some yes, if they were both right, you know the criticism of the state aid policy in Slovenia that hasn't changed yet, after a few years we've only come to a record of how much money goes, and we haven't, or haven't, yet, changed the policies that could do so, and I don't see that with the new budget it's going to be different. Another area where criticism falls on Slovenia. So it is very surprising to me that such concern is, therefore, for every job you have to worry about, but these are jobs in the most profitable or in one of the most profitable industries in Slovenia. I am glad that we are attentive and socially sensitive to each other, but I would like to: when it comes to talking about it and in such a way that at least so much attention is paid to companies that are really in distress or who have gone, the government has not taken a step in this direction to keep something, both in the area of textiles, leather, light metal, processing or wood industries, for example. Go take a look, you know, gentlemen, and you also have some unions behind you, how many jobs have been done, but no one has been competing for special programmes or in this region or in that region; so, they have, they have only been gone. And, of course, I ask you not to come with Zagor now or with TET 3, which would be the burial of Slovenia. So, I regret that this matter is delayed, and I ask the party's proposers, who also has the Prime Minister, how much more mature we will be in a month, two or three differently, and how we will decide at that time. Are we gonna bet on what someone said seven years of expansion isn't going to happen? Now, if you bet on that statement, I think you bet wrong. I would like it to be our common policy, because we said it was a joint project, so that the usual game between the position and the opposition would not run here, because we once signed that we were doing this together; so that we would not do these things like that. And I'm against delay and against mixing a fog that won't bring us anything. And I oppose or reject the debates that are problematic to the European Union rather than problematic the inoperability of our government.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Gaspari.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u198	I would also avoid stealing time, but only two, three notes, despite what Mr Peterle said, because I think, despite the fact that it is very accurate, there were some very misleading matters. Firstly, with regard to the European Union's criticism of our economic situation. I would not take it so uniquely because it is written in any paper of the European Union, even though I respect it as such. But it's not pure gold. It's this thing. And with regard to the economic structure and functioning of the economy, I would hope to say, I must say, completely sovereignly, that many European countries are very similar to Slovenian - ownership, for example in banking, which is why they do not experience such criticism about the operation we are experiencing, say, by some materials. We are building a monetary fund, for example, international in nature, such as some of the European Union. As regards the banking system, of course, Germany has such a structure where the state owns at least as much of the share of the banking system as in Slovenia, and therefore it is not a question of whether Germany is a good member of the European Union or not. Well, given the results of the business, and given its success, certainly such a thesis does not fully hold, although it is partly true. However, I believe that there is also a very specific interest for privatisation in the Slovenian banking area. Of course, it is not bad in itself, but it is indicative and must be taken into account. Secondly, as regards the European Union's actions, we do not agree here. Of course, the criteria must be the same both times. It cannot be that Slovenia is a criterion that should be regarded - as the best in the European Union - and some areas are considered to be, but if the European Union serves a measure that is clearly inconsistent with the standards it has set itself, it is of interest. Of course it doesn't work that way. In no normal place, especially those with high levels of development. So I think this criticism is legitimate and justifiable. And, of course, it's also good to address it to the address that follows it. It is interesting that, of course, these measures are largely supported by those who come from countries that also use these measures in practice. This, I think, is something, this is the reality of the European Union, which must be taken into account, and at the same time try to turn it into a good thing, where possible. However, when it comes to classification of countries, Slovenia has never been officially classified in another group of countries. It is true, however, that some of the internal criteria, which are those for Slovenia on the economic performance that you mentioned, were mentioned in a report. However, I must say that - as I say again - I do not accept any such thing as pure gold, nor such an opinion of the European Union, because, after all, no professional opinion in itself is absolute, but it can only be relative. And in an expert discussion, such an opinion is always possible with arguments, at least what it is, of course, if not to 'dispute', but at least to relativise it. And I think that it is also our government's duty to respond to such reports of the European Union correctly, but also professionally, where necessary, to the right criticism: yes, but not biased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Very briefly. Look, I can agree with what Mr. Minister says on some matters. It is also the fact that it is not gold; but this country, including its government, has assessed the European Commission's report on Slovenia's progress in joining the European Union as right, as fair, as true or as real. We can now add anything to this, this is Slovenia's official position in front of Brussels and nothing helps us now to say that it is not dry gold. Even if it isn't, it's okay! There is no other assessment, and on this basis the European Union is working on its policy towards us. Now, what's the argument. I want our arguments to be our actions, our decisions, not our delay.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u201	Thank you very much. From now on, we are limiting the debate of other Members who have not applied in writing to five minutes. Mr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Madam President. Very briefly. When I stood in front of the National Assembly in the previous assembly in May, I was asked what the possible government would do with this open issue of free-duty shops, I made a commitment to check it out, and if there is any room for manoeuvre, we would try to resolve it in a different way. That's what I've been up to. In fact, we have reviewed everything that has ever been written and existed in the field of government on this issue, and we have come to the final conclusion that there is no room for manoeuvre. Why was I interested in this too - because when a person first looks at this problem, he really faces the question of what we are committed to. But the fact is, the Slovenian state has committed itself. I don't want us here to start a debate about why we did it. Of course, after the war, we can all be generals. If some colleagues or colleagues want such a debate, we can have it. However, the only thing that is currently moving towards this debate is the fact that we must have the future of our country before our eyes and the credibility of our country. I therefore note and truly regret that there is no such support as a man would expect from a government coalition on the proposal of the current government. I am pleased that the current government has come to the same conclusion that there is no real room for manoeuvre. I therefore ask that we really try to resolve this issue as soon as possible, within such deadlines and that we are aware that we must, above all, have the credibility of our own promises as a goal. I would like to say that it seems entirely appropriate for us to start a debate on what to do or how to solve the problems that will arise from this decision. I'm well aware of that, too. However, I note and agree with what my colleague Gaspari has said that somehow every analysis from a global economic perspective only proves that the issues that will be raised are indeed of a global moral nature. Mechanisms exist to address such problems, and if this national assembly wants to, it can also debate this issue. But we should not again question the credibility of our country today. I would ask that the government coalition support the Prime Minister, who is clearly at the national level 48 hours ago, also clearly agrees with such an approach and is confident that a solution will finally come to pass; regardless of the obvious strong interests of economic character, which should not prevail over the fact that this national assembly must always lead. And that is the credibility and image of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u203	Thank you. The text is requested by the representative of the secretariat, Ms Tina Bitenc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u204	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. I would like to make some clarifications on the procedure, and in particular on the role of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs and its tasks within its framework. First, it should be noted that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has proposed two laws this year in the procedure for the National Assembly. One was a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the customs law, which was retained because other laws relating to this area had already been introduced before it, which was intended to deal with it or to deal with it. The second law, however, was the proposal for a law on specific control measures for the sale of road border crossings, which was also proposed by a rapid procedure, but which was granted correctly because no law had been introduced at that time to deal with the issue. Only subsequently, in July of this year, did the law or proposal for a law on the transformation of the activities of free-carrying shops at the road border crossings with Austria and Italy and Hungary by members of Ferri Horvat and Davorin Terčona. During the summer time, the then Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposed an amendment, 22.8. which would also introduce certain measures into this law by means of a new Article 13a - I will say - with regard to the smoothing of the situation that would arise after the cessation of the activities of free-duty shops and the transformation of this activity into a regular retail sale. This bill took place in one foreword of a meeting of the National Assembly, so the secretariat for legislation and legal affairs in July - i think it was 17, just wait a moment, 23.8. - gave a basic opinion on the bill including the amendment, where we had some comments. Subsequently, the Government, the then government, on 4.9. has tabled new amendments which have withdrawn the previous amendment and in which it has clearly decided to reform the concept of this law, so that it will also, in fact, contain appropriate measures in the customs law, as far as it is necessary to do so in order to transform the PCPs, I will say, at border crossings with the Republic of Austria and the Italian Republic. This is said to have been proposed by the Government for Article 12a with the appropriate repeal of the customs law in this law by 4.9.2000. In addition, the secretariat gave an additional opinion. It did not object to these amendments, since the Rules of Procedure do not impose substantive restrictions on the amendments themselves and that the legislator is, in fact, not very limited in the drafting of the final text of the law through the amendments in the rapid procedure. And more than once, it has happened that, in part, but sometimes very, it has changed the concept of law. At that time, we merely warned that if the concept of the law changes or expands, it should be consistently implemented through the entire text, including the title. This additional opinion was also submitted to the Committee on Finance - then, which in fact addressed the whole - of the draft law in early September. However, he did not complete the hearing and therefore the matter did not come to the September meeting of the State Assembly of the previous reference. This reference raised the question of the appropriateness of the procedure. We have given some of the preliminary questions of a professional nature, with which we have been addressed differently, the opinion that we do not see any problems. For the amendments are not substituted, and certain aspects of the legal matter among the laws which are later introduced, the State Assembly has also worked in practice so far. From this point of view, we have only reviewed the new amendments tabled by the government - yesterday, I think - which are quite similar to the amendments tabled by the Government 4.9. We gave an oral opinion in accordance with Article 181 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because we are committed to the opinion, and several times due to time constraints we also give an oral opinion, gold for amendments, which has been done on the Committee today. We have found that these amendments eliminate even those, for example, inconsistentities that we have seen in the amendments of the Government which has tabled Amendments 4.9. and from this point of view, we have found that the concept of "lex specialis" is apparently being preserved. Thus, as regards the secretariat's role in the process and the procedure itself, we do not actually see any inconsistency with the rules of procedure, which would, of course, be required to point out, as would any other non-compliance with the rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u205	Thank you so much for explaining. Mr. Petty Officer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u206	Thank you for your word. I wouldn't touch the question here: shut it down or not shut it down, because I think that the question has already been exceeded and it's pointless to ask it. I would like to talk about the social economic consequences and the resolution of this issue. Four studies have been conducted in this regard. I have examined these four studies, and I must say that the forces were different, even though they were made by eminent experts. Then we later found that the study was actually dependent on what kind of godfather she had. So there was little she could do to help with that government. However, there are some records of what this would mean when these free-of-customs shops were closed. Consequences - a colleague in front of me, who would also like to replicate to him, namely Mr Gaspari, said that these issues were marginal. Of course, if we look at them from a global perspective, i.e. from a global perspective, they are certainly irrelevant. If we look at them from a Slovenian perspective, they already have a bigger weight. But if we look at them from a border point of view, it's no longer marginal. So I think it's important that we touch on this issue. The government has tabled amendments to the resolution of the reduction of the socio-economic consequences, but I must warn you that this could only be a dead letter on paper, just a nice word - why? Because this law denies that this will be resolved by another law; this second law, which is the law on employment and unemployment insurance, speaks of the adoption of measures of the government's active employment policy. Given the state of the government's situation regarding its budgetary problems, it is very likely that because there will be no legal obligation to stick to active employment policies, this is a moving thing, I will say if I use this notion of Mrs Bebler's - creativity - then it can happen that there will be nothing for these salesmen to deal with these socio-economic consequences. I therefore believe that those provisions which the representative of the secretariat has pointed out to be taken into account more consistently in this law. So, more specifically, they are bonded, without having to refer to any other regulations, and this other regulation to sub-laws and so on. Indeed, active employment policy measures are not rights, they are not rights, they are not vindictive rights. As far as regional aid is concerned. Of course, I am pleased that this, including interstate aid, pre-structural funds and so on will be launched. However, I am afraid that I know the practice that this thing has the force, the force of the long preparatory process and the dead in the beginning. European bureaucrats, including those who have their depots in Slovenia, take a long time to make decisions, even though the basic programme may have been adopted. So it can happen that, in the first place, active employment policy measures will be limited only to the fact that persons as workers' surpluses will apply to the Employment Service. That's what I'm afraid of. Therefore, I believe that the text that the Government has just presented in the law on the transformation of the activities of free-carrying shops and as I have seen the amendment proposed by the four or five Members of Christmas, I do not know how else, contains these provisions. And for me, it's a neurological point or just to talk about how effectively we're going to solve this. Now, of course, I am again asking why specific measures should be introduced in free-customs shops, why not normal ones, as are the rest of the companies. Simply because of the direct consequences of the law, i.e. the amendment of a regulation which affects only specific operators on the market. I therefore believe that, in terms of equality of treatment, these issues need to be addressed in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Because no, I am concluding the general debate, and with this first reading of the bill, Mr Bavcar has the floor. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, as it concerns procedural issues, Mrs Bitencheva, on behalf of the secretariat for legislation, rejected the allegations of tactising in relation to this law. Moreover, this government, in dealing with procedural issues that would enable us to remove this issue as soon as possible from the agenda or to adopt this law, in fact, as you have heard, has relied on the amendments of the previous government and on the procedures and means of resolution that the previous government has already tried to implement. I myself have tried to convince Members who blocked the adoption of the previous two laws and had their own proposals put forward, in order to reach an agreement - including Members of the Group of Members led by Mr Peterle - but unfortunately failed. Because of this, it is said, because of both of what I have said, I reject the impressions that I have implicitly felt that we are deliberately delaying European decisions. Last but not least in this area, in the area of integration into the European Union, the previous government has not done much; it has had the opportunity to put this issue on the agenda. Let me say that, above all, with regard to the issue mentioned at the end - Mr Drobnič mentioned it - that we are practically obliged, on behalf of equality of treatment between economic operators and individuals, to provide certain specific measures, but I would like to warn, also because some of you have talked about closing down so that we do not propose the closure of free-duty shops and the transformation. We do not impose specific measures - or I will say - we do not give any special conditions under which these shops will operate, but we compare them with other stores in Slovenia. And it is by this law that we allow equality of treatment. Those who advocate longer procedures or perhaps longer periods of enforcement due to the length of procedures - let me say that implementation measures will be ready for the implementation of the law - they would like to point out that one of the key laws in this area, the value added tax law, have been introduced throughout the economy in spite of problems in six months and that there is no reason that these implementation procedures would not be adopted for these stores, which are significantly less than they are, and with this regulation of their operations, they would not be able to adopt in a very short period of time. I think a whole bunch of debaters have pointed out the economic effects. Of course, we have not claimed anywhere that the studies on which we lean do not talk about the potential for unemployment. However, we know - last but not least, this is based on the arguments of some amendments of the Group of Members - that these are sales, that these owners, these companies at the moment, aware of the inescapability of adopting this law, are already in talks with suppliers when their shops are redesigned in accordance with the principles also established in the European Union, so-called "Value travel shop", and that from this point of view their own assessment is that not only is economic survival possible, but also, I will say achievement, I will say good economic results. However, it seems that in certain pressures, because it seems to them that the opportunity is too great, perhaps without any specific analysis of their actual effects of this law, it is already in this law that they can provide certain ratings, which I am confident that, like their current tax and customs situation, they will not be able to make good arrangements with suppliers who are already selling because of this particularly privileged position at a significantly higher price. With regard to the procedural proposal, which has been voted on, in view of the amendments voted today on the Committee, I would say that there was a great deal of fear in the event that this treatment would continue to be carried on, that in disregard of the warnings given by the secretariats themselves at the Committee's meeting, the consistency of our legislation in this area would be thoroughly shaken. And in this law, the amendments adopted by some Members were threatening the functioning of our tax and customs system. I therefore estimate that in the vacation voted in this way, we can reduce these errors or shortcomings to the minimum possible extent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u209	Thank you very much. With these explanations, Mr Bavčar, Minister for European Affairs, I conclude the general debate. In accordance with the second decision that we have previously adopted, I am adjourning the half-hour session and informing members of Kviaz that there will be a meeting in room 212 in five minutes, and so continue at 7 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u210	Dear colleagues, please meet me in the hall. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask you politely, since it is already time for you to join us in the Hall. Dear colleagues, if you'll excuse me, we'll proceed. First of all, we owe you an apology for your delay. I hope you accept it. We're moving on to 19. POINT OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF DECISIONS ON THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE WORKING BODIES OF THE STATE CONGREGATION. First of all, I ask you to determine our presence. 43 Members and Members are present. The National Assembly is not concluded. That's how we'd continue now. We're rediscovering the presence! [[44 present, plus Pahor, Gaspari.]] Under this item of the agenda, the assembly will consider the proposals for a decree establishing the working committees of the National Assembly, submitted today by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. I think you're just getting the motions of both rulings on the bench. If you'll excuse me, we'd move slowly to the hearing and decision-making. In this regard, I propose that we discuss both proposals for decisions together and then vote on each proposal for a resolution separately. With regard to this proposal, someone would like a word or, in view of the fact that it is yet to be divided, would ask the rapporteur of the Commission for elections, appointments and administrative matters to give a joint introductory explanation. Mr. Pucko doesn't want to give an introductory explanation. Does the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mr Sašo Peče, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u211	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Unfortunately, in the Slovenian national party, both decisions cannot be supported. It is a simple matter because the National Assembly is ahead of time, I think that at the second follow-up to the 1st extraordinary meeting, it has also defined that this State Assembly should adopt a Commission for Local Self-Government and a Commission for Disability Issues. In view of the fact that the National Assembly has concluded and ordered Kwiaz to adopt or prepare the decision under consideration for the meeting of the National Assembly, it has not done so at its 1st regular session and has given priority to the two supervisory services, it seems extremely unfair to us that there are no proposed decisions on the agenda today because they could also be confirmed today. For this simple reason, we cannot participate in these two proposals because the conclusions of the National Assembly are not respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Is there another group that wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Before giving the floor to Members and Members of Parliament, I would like to point out that, taking into account the current practice of hearing, amendments can only be tabled to those points of the decision which determine the powers and tasks of the individual working body. Any proposal to change the composition of the working body must be previously agreed at the election, appointment and administrative committee meeting and therefore cannot be submitted as such to the National Assembly directly. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a vote on individual proposals for decisions. I am voting on the proposal for a decree establishing a committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to oversee the budget and other public finances. There are 53 Members and Members present. Who's behind the proposal? [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the proposal for a decree establishing a committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to oversee the work of security and intelligence services. 52 Members and Members are present. We're voting on the proposal. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 20. It's on the line of day, it's on love and naming. We have invited a representative of the Council of Justice to this point, but of course he has given up. The assembly will consider under this item of the agenda the proposal of the Judicial Council for the election of a candidate in a judicial capacity and the proposal of the Commission for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs under 1 the proposal for a resolution on the discharge and appointment of the President of the Council of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the revision of the property transformation of enterprises, then the proposal for a decision on the appointment of the Republic Election Commission and the proposal for a decision amending the decision on the organisation and work of the services of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the consideration and conclusion of individual proposals. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal to elect Ms Nevenka Hafner Kopač as a candidate for judicial office of Judge for Offences at the Judge for Markets. There is no representative of the Judicial Council, the proposal was addressed by Kviaz and submitted a report and a motion for a resolution to the assembly. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss, I conclude the debate and put to the vote a motion for a ruling in the judicial function of Mrs Nevenka Hafner Kopač to the judicial seat of the Judge for Offences in the Judge for the Offences of Tržič. There are 48 Members and Members present. We vote on the motion for a ruling. Who's in favour of the motion for a ruling? [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a resolution on the discharge and appointment of the President of the Council of the Slovenian Agency for the Revision of the Property Transformation of Enterprises. The draft decree was tabled by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a resolution on the discharge and appointment of the President of the Council of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the revision of the property transformation of enterprises. 52 Members and Members are present. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision-making and debate on the proposal for a decision appointing a Republic Election Commission. The draft decree was tabled by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it, I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision appointing a Republican Election Commission for a period of four years. 52 Members and Members are present. Who's in favour of the motion for a ruling? [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted and therefore I conclude this item on the agenda. I'm sorry. We are also considering the proposal for a decree amending the decision on the organisation and work of the services of the National Assembly. The draft decree was tabled by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. The rapporteur for the commission wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. This report, or the content of the amendment of the decree, would only add that the Commission has also adopted a decision on the proposal of Members of the various parliamentary groups, that each Member also belongs to one expert. This Decision would seek to implement it further. So that there will be no misunderstanding that this is not yet part of the report, because due to time constraints this will be contained in the minutes of the meeting itself, which will also be confirmed by the Commission at its next meeting and thus confirmed by it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs want words? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it, I am putting to the vote a proposal for a decision on the organisation and work of the services of the National Assembly. Please be present to report our presence! There are 47 Members and Members present. We vote on the motion for a ruling. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Before the conclusion of today's session, however, I find that the Assembly is Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u215	I would ask on a case-by-case basis whether the rules of procedure concerning the absence of excuses and excuses are still in force. Indeed, those who have not excused their absence are unduly absent in accordance with the rules of procedure. That is why I ask this question and, of course, in a way, I place it on my heart to the appropriate services to act as it is written there, because otherwise it will always happen that we will sit here one and the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u216	Thank you so much for the heads-up. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure are certainly also applicable in this section and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the competent services will act with certainty. If you allow us to proceed, I note that the assembly is under agenda item 18, this is a proposal for a law on specific control measures for shops on road border crossings that has only been dealt with in the first instance. On the basis of the second paragraph of Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the second and third readings of that proposal be transferred to the next January meeting of the Assembly. Does anyone wish to discuss the proposed decision? The possible debate will take place in accordance with Article 64, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in which the representatives of the groups of Members may present their views and the debate of Members is not possible. Members of the parliamentary groups please, do they want a word? Mr Peterle, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u217	I am sorry that none of the coalition has tried to take the opportunity to conclude this assembly to take advantage of the fact that the coalition is acting in accordance with what the government has announced and has also represented here. We are convinced that working with this is a great damage to Slovenia, and any delay, even though the debates in the corridors have somehow made it possible to know what the coalition is afraid of, in a month, two or three nothing else - the same facts, the same arguments, the same interests, the same threat to the referendum if you want, and of course the slightly different attitude of Brussels towards what is happening here.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Does he want another word from one of the MPs? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the debate and putting the proposed decision to the vote. There are 50 Members and Members present. Who is in favour of the proposal? [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. If you allow me to conclude today's session, Mr President of the National Assembly of Borut Pahor would like to clarify matters concerning tomorrow's meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u219	It'll only take a minute, Comrade Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u220	Procedurally, I didn't have a ticket in there, and I kept voting if you could write down that I was present, that it wouldn't show that I was unwarrantedly absent. [[...]] I was present.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u221	We'll write it down, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u222	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! On Saturday, the National Assembly will move to a new hall with a festive session. I'd just like to ask everyone once again if you'd be so careful about taking your seats a few minutes before you start. The ceremony itself will not last long, good half an hour, and then the reception in the hall is before the festive session, where we will also be joined by colleagues and colleagues from the previous assemblies of the National Assembly. That's how we're actually leaving today, I think, this ungrateful hall is forever. We leave bad memories here, and we bring good experiences with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-21-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u223	Thank you very much. This concludes the third extraordinary session. Have a nice evening. Good night!
