ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, guests in attendance! I am opening the 3rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened on the basis of paragraphs 51 and 54 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm not informed that our colleagues and colleagues would be detained. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall! Any of your colleagues do not have a card, please confirm their presence and will to vote with a raise of hands. That's five colleagues and six colleagues. If you don't mind my saying, we're meeting for the last time in this room. I'd appreciate it if we could all just calm down so we can get started. Ladies and gentlemen, we are meeting for the last time in this Chamber. This meeting is the last session, we are starting today and we are expected to finish it by Thursday at the latest. For the last time, we are sitting in this very ungrateful space, which requires all of us to be as patient as possible so that those who speak can communicate their arguments in a suitable atmosphere. This therefore requires a measure of patience from all of us, and I thank for it in advance on behalf of those who are performing. There are 55 colleagues and colleagues present, and 6 additional messages were sent by hand, which means that there are 61 of us in the hall. I find that the assembly is adjourned and that it can make a decision. I invited the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, the candidate for the Ombudsman, Mrs Darjo Lavtijar-Bebler, the candidate for the Constitutional Court Judge, Prof. Dr. Cyril Ribičič, and the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I say hello to everyone. Before setting the agenda for this meeting, we will proceed with the procedure for the adoption of the minutes of the 2nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. The log is available in the computer network. Do any of you request a change or supplement or have any comment on the minutes? I find that there are no comments to the minutes. We are moving on to a decision on its adoption. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall! 69 Members and Members are present. We vote on the adoption of the minutes. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] Do all of your colleagues and colleagues who vote vote in favour of the minutes? [[Yeah.]] I take it the minutes have been adopted. We are moving on to the agenda of the 3rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda with reference to 18 December 2000. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We are moving on to proposals to withdraw each item from the agenda. I didn't get any withdrawals. Anyone want a word about that? I guess not. We're moving to proposals. Please excuse my colleague. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I'm sorry. I propose that the 6th item withdraw from the agenda, because we have received the material a few hours earlier, and the mother's working body has not yet sat down and is called for tomorrow, and I believe that this is too short a time to deal with this material. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u3	Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I guess not. Would you like to explain your proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u4	To withdraw point six.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u5	To retreat. I am putting to the vote a motion for withdrawal, please, representative of the government. [[...]] Please! I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u6	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u7	I'm asking for peace in the hall! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u8	So we absolutely propose that this item be placed on the agenda, because it is just before the present signing of the agreement between the social partners. With the public sector, this agreement is practically initialled and the text is now being verified. There are also negotiations with the private sector, that is to say with the economy. So that the matter is very important and I think that we would virtually disable the whole area of wage coordination for next year if we let ourselves sign an agreement on the one hand and, on the other hand, the law that we have adopted in the past year and which, of course, is still in force. We'd have two acts that would be in conflict with each other. I don't think we should afford it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič, President of the Working Body. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me inform my fellow Members only that the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons convened the 3rd extraordinary meeting tomorrow at 8:30, at which we will treat this item as the only item, of course in addition to the minutes of the last meeting, and we will also try to prepare it for the continuation of the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u11	Thank you very much. This has resulted in the exhaustion of the word of all those who have a rule of procedure on such a proposal, so we are moving on to a decision-making process. Members and Members, please note their presence! There are 70 Members and Members present. Who's in favour of a motion to withdraw the item from the agenda? [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 53.]] I note that the proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda has not been adopted. We are moving on to proposals to expand the agenda. Anybody want a word on this? I guess not. The National Assembly is now deciding on rapid procedures. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on public finances and proposes to the assembly to adopt it in a rapid manner. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] I am putting to the vote a proposal for the adoption of that proposal by means of a rapid procedure. 71 Members and Members are present. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposal for the adoption of a bill is adopted quickly. A group of Members with first-signed Cyril Puck submitted to the assembly for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on pension and disability insurance and proposes to the assembly to adopt it quickly. Would you like a representative of the motions? [[No, no, ……]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Neither does the representative of the secretariat. And the government's representative? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] I am putting to the vote a proposal for the adoption of that proposal by means of a rapid procedure. I ask Members and Members to register their presence. There are 68 Members and Members present. We're voting on the proposal. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the proposal for the adoption of a bill is adopted quickly. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted for consideration a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Minimum Wage, on how to harmonise wages and on the Regression for annual leave during the period 1999/2001. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Mother's working body? Representative of the Secretariat? Representatives of parliamentary groups? I am putting to the vote a proposal for the adoption of that proposal by means of a rapid procedure. I ask Members and Members to register their presence. There are 68 Members and Members present. Who is in favour of the motion for a decree in its entirety? [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the proposal for the adoption of a bill is adopted quickly. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted for consideration a proposal for a law on cooperation between the Republic of Slovenia and the International Criminal Court for the former Yugoslavia and the International Criminal Court for Rwanda and the Assembly proposing that it be adopted in a swift manner. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? [[They don't want to.]] I am putting to the vote a proposal for the adoption of that proposal by means of a rapid procedure. 71 Members and Members are present. We're voting on the proposal. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] In view of the outcome of the vote, I note that the proposal for the adoption of a proposal for a fast-track law has been adopted. I'm asking for a little more attention in the hall. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Asylum Act and proposes to the assembly to adopt it in a rapid manner. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill following a rapid procedure and I ask the rapporteur if he wants the word. [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? [[They don't want to.]] I am putting to the vote a proposal for the adoption of that proposal by means of a rapid procedure. 65 Members and Members are present. We're voting on the proposal. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the 5.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, I note that the proposal to adopt a proposal for a fast-track law has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the assembly a proposal for a law on measures to accelerate the rehabilitation in areas affected by the beach and the outbreak of Predelica in the municipality of Bovec. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I am putting to the vote a proposal for the adoption of that proposal by means of a rapid procedure. There are 68 Members and Members present. We're voting on the proposal. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against one.]] In view of the outcome of the vote, I note that the proposal for the adoption of a proposal for a fast-track law has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted for consideration a proposal for a law on specific measures of control of shops at road and border crossings. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u12	We're at the motherland. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u13	Please, for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u14	The working body has already been reminded of compliance with the rules of procedure and it seems to me that we will not put this law on the agenda in the working body as well. [[...]] So I don't think it's right to accept it, because according to the rules of procedure, there are still some laws passed before this law. So I don't think he'll be in session tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u15	Therefore, as regards the business conditions, whether this law meets this requirement for inclusion on the agenda or not, we have consulted and, as is clear, the Secretariat has no comments in this regard. Do you have any suggestions on that?
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u16	Yes, I must point out that, in agreement with the Group of Members, we will then raise a constitutional dispute in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Any other parliamentary groups would like a word? I guess not. I am putting to the vote a proposal for the adoption of that proposal by means of a rapid procedure. Please report our presence! 71 Members and Members are present. We're voting on the proposal. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 17.]] In view of the outcome of the vote, I note that the proposal for the adoption of a proposal for a fast-track law has been adopted. We are voting on the draft agenda as a whole. I suggest you beg your pardon? [[...]] Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u18	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I propose that the 17th item, namely the proposal for a law on measures to accelerate recovery in areas affected by the plasma and by the outbreak of the Predelica in the Municipality of Bovec, be regarded as the 2nd item of the agenda, as this would at least show that the distress of people affected by natural disasters is a priority, and that the funds for other major accidents, possibly also for the detention in Přígorica, should be provided as soon as possible, and would also allow this law to be adopted in this year or until the end of this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u19	We will first vote on the agenda and then on your proposal, on the classification of this point as a priority in the work of the National Assembly. We will therefore first find the majority of Members for or against the proposed agenda. 69 Members and Members are present. Who's in favour of the agenda? [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the assembly adopted the draft agenda for the 3rd extraordinary meeting. I propose that we decide on your proposal in accordance with Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with its second paragraph - it is a matter of changing the order of the individual agenda items. This is a procedural proposal and will be decided by a vote. There are 72 Members and Members present. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 40.]] If you don't mind if I give you a heads-up with the caller, if you don't mind. [[...]] We will certainly exhaust the agenda of this meeting within three days and this law will also be adopted. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THAT'S THE DETERMINATION OF THE CANDIATIVES, WHO, IN ACCORDANCE WITH 14. Members of the law on business perform the function of a messenger instead of a messenger who took over the government's function. The Republican Election Commission has forwarded to the assembly a finding on which candidates have the right to replace Members who have taken office in the government. The findings were addressed by the Commission’s mandate-immunity committee, which informed the assembly in writing. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? I guess not. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? I guess not. Representatives of parliamentary groups? I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Who wants a word? Since no one wants to debate, I am closing the debate and moving on to a vote. On the basis of that and in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, I shall put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: At the time when elected Members who have taken office in the Government have not been able, in accordance with the provisions of Article 14, paragraph 1, of the Law on Members, to perform this function in accordance with the provisions of Article 14, paragraph 2, of that Act as of today: instead of Dr Dimitri Rupl Aleksander Merlo, born on 11 February 1952, residing in Ljubljana Road 6, Postojna; instead of Mag. Antono Ropa Jožef Školč, born 19 August 1960, living in Breginj 42, Breginj; instead of mag. Janez Kopača Richard Beuerman, born on 20 April 1954, residing in Raskovec 11, Vrhnika; in place of Dr. Lucija Čok Mario Gasparini, born 23 August 1935, residing in Levstikova 2, Izola; instead of Igor Bavčar Roman Jakič, born on 1 May 1967, residing in Neubergereva 25, Ljubljana. There are 70 Members and Members present. We vote on the proposed decision. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] In view of the outcome of the vote, I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Members, please come to the hall. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] Allow us to congratulate our new colleagues, on behalf of all others, sincerely. [[...]] With regard to the report of the Rules of Procedure Commission of 30 May 1996, I propose to the assembly that it adopt a further proposal for a decision: "Members who will act as Members, members of all working bodies whose members or presidents have been Members who have been at ease shall make any changes in the composition of working bodies." Does anyone want a word about this? Members and Members, please note our presence! There are 74 Members and Members present. We vote on the proposed decision. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] In view of the outcome of the vote, I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. Agenda item - Defence proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of the Ombudsman of Human Rights. The President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Milan Kučan, proposed by letter of 12 December 2000 to the National Assembly that Mrs Darjo Lavtijar-Bebler be elected as the Ombudsman of Human Rights, which I also welcome very much in our midst. Does the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The proposal by the President of the Republic was addressed by the Commission for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs. Would you like to speak to the rapporteur of this commission? Mr. Pucko, please, President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, the representative of the Office of the President of the State! Allow me to present briefly the chronology of how this proposal has come before us. On 12 December of this year, the President of the Republic of Slovenia forwarded to the National Assembly the proposal to elect Darjo Lovtijar-Bebler, a university lawyer, for the Ombudsman of Human Rights, born 10.10.1950. The explanation of the proposal states that the Ombudsman was granted a six-year mandate on 29 September this year. In accordance with the procedure laid down by law, Mr Ivan Bizjak was proposed for election to the Ombudsman and he did not receive the required majority, two-thirds of the votes of all Members, at the meeting of the National Assembly on 12 July this year, and the procedure had to be repeated in order to reach a new proposal. After consultation with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, the President of the State decided to propose to the National Assembly to elect Dara Lavtijar-Bebler, who also has the largest, although not the unanimous support of the parliamentary groups. He decided to apply Article 13, paragraph 1, of the Constitutional Court Act to propose a candidate who had not been proposed within the time limit set by the public publication. The proposed candidate shall fulfil certain conditions by law and agree to the application. According to the President of the Republic, he also has adequate knowledge and experience and all other qualities necessary to carry out the duties of the Ombudsman. At its 2nd extraordinary session, the Commission of the National Assembly for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs discussed the proposal. Questions were raised in the debate concerning the selection procedure or why the applicant decided to choose between proposals submitted after the deadline. Individual concerns were also expressed about the proposed candidate in terms of the ability of an objective or impartial exercise of the function to which it is proposed. The proposer or representative of the proposer explained that the proposal was drafted in accordance with the law and that the proposal took into account the views expressed by the leaders of the groups on the possible support of Members of individual candidates. On this basis, the Commission of the National Assembly for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs, in accordance with its powers by a majority of the votes defined, has drafted a draft decree on the election of the Ombudsman, which proposes to the National Assembly that Daro Lavtizar-Bebler be elected for a term of six years for the Ombudsman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Pucko, President of the Competent Commission. The representative of the secretariat does not want a word. I'm asking, does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Please, do representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Please, first of all, Mr Drobnič, New Slovenia's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u22	Dear Members and Members! On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, allow me to give an opinion on the application of Darje Lavtijar-Bebler for the Ombudsman. The candidate is not one of 22 candidates within 30 days, as provided for by the Ombudsman Act. The President of the Republic of Kučan decided to apply for a person who subsequently applied or subsequently applied. This, of course, raises a certain issue of equality of treatment for all candidates. The President of the State therefore accepted the candidacy of a person belonging to a certain political option. He himself has repeatedly expressed himself and stressed that it is necessary to select a person who is not politically bound to ensure respect for the rights of individual citizens and will not be bound by a political option or a political directive. We must be aware that political power can also be a cause for abuse. If it belongs to a certain political option, there is a risk that this will happen. Such a responsible function certainly requires a person to be highly qualified and to have confidence in a wider crowd, so that he has confidence in people. I would like to emphasise something else about Mrs Bebler's candidacy. That in the procedure of Minister Šturm's candidacy, she was eager to mention his membership, his membership in the organisation of civil society. This can, of course, be a sign of how a person acts at crucial times when it is necessary to be politically unrelated, professionally neutral, morally-ethically firm and clear. As I am aware, Mrs Beblereva has also not left the party, unless, of course, I am mistaken, Carby has confirmed this political commitment. Here are the reasons why Nova Slovenija will not support Darje Lavtišar-Bebler's candidacy.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr Drobnič, who spoke on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Mr Franz Puksič asked for the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u24	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, Madam Candidate for the post of Ombudsman! The President of the State, Mr Milan Kučan, proposed to Mrs Darjo Lavtijar-Bebler to the State Election Assembly for the Ombudsman, despite the fact that she has applied already after the deadline. In the proposal, the President of the State stated that he relied on the provision of the Constitutional Court Act in order to elect a candidate outside the range of those proposed within the time limit. The President of the State, of course, has the opportunity to propose for the Ombudsman's vacant post those who, for the first time, have applied within the time limit, or who may also propose other candidates. The explanation of this provision is very clear. There are therefore candidates who have applied within the deadline, for the first time and for the second time, there are candidates or candidates who are proposed by the President of the State or who elects the President of the State for the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no third option. The law does not provide for a candidate who did not comply with the rules and applied only after the deadline. The application after the deadline, when Mrs Darji Lovtizar-Beblerova failed to be included in the national elections, in fact, shows a rather under-appreciating attitude towards the Ombudsman's Institute. And I'm sure it wouldn't be good for starters. The question is, of course, how would Mrs Darja Lovtijar-Belbereva, if elected, and I hope she would not, protect the human rights of others if she applied herself after the expiry and the lady herself did not respect the legislation of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear Members and Members, Mrs Darja Lovtizar-Beblereva is not politically impartial, but is even considered a prominent representative of the Liberal Democracy. This was also demonstrated when the Constitutional Court decision was violated. By her explanation, by Mrs Darje Lovtizar-Beblereva's explanation that legal standards can also be interpreted by "creative interpretation of the law". This is a bad trip for the Ombudsman. Or maybe. This time, too, Mrs Bebler took advantage of her way of interpreting, respecting reporting, i.e. a public deadline with the so-called creative interpretation of legislation and deadline. Even more. Ms Dara Lavtijar-Beblereva, on the committee dealing with the Vič-Holmec affair, strongly defended those who tried with various intrigues to play people who had done much for Slovenia alone. It was on this committee that Mrs Beblereva, where she should have defended those who had done much for this country, did not actually defend and was, in fact, involved in the violation of or the worst possible form of human rights violations. I also know her, of course, as a member of the entire previous term, so I can say that Mrs Bebler's has been working more and more in the National Assembly by supporting those solutions that have not detected the interests of socially vulnerable people. I will remind you when we have proposed an absolute rise in pensions or those in demographically threatened areas. I will also remind you of the law amending the law on the financing of municipalities, the part of which fell in the Constitutional Court. In fact, with his proposal, the President of the State has deluded himself from the legislative body of the state, which is supposed to be the highest in this country through the regulation of parliamentary democracy. This, of course, is also proved by some of the following facts. Colleagues and colleagues, the Institute of the Ombudsman, are in fact supposed to belong to civil society, not to served-up politicians, in the first and second cases. Mr President of the State, the Republic of Slovenia, Milan Kučan, had the opportunity to propose to Dr Marija Ovsenik as the Ombudsman. Unfortunately, he didn't take advantage of it. Unfortunately, too, because Mr President has received some recommendations from his office at the table. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the recommendation of the University of Ljubljana, with the signature of Prof. Dr. Jožet Mencinger, has a certain weight, has the weight of the University of Ljubljana. Among other things, it says that "Professor Marija Ovsenik is a successful and distinguished teacher of the University of Ljubljana. Her professional work goes directly to the area of the Ombudsman's work." This is just one quote from this recommendation. If he also receives a recommendation from other Slovenian universities, and in Slovenia we have only two universities, universities in Maribor, with the signature of Prof. Dr. Ludvik Toplak, where he writes: "Dear Mr. President Milan Kučan! The professional and scientific work of Prof. Dr. Marija Ovsenik at the University of Maribor has been accompanied for a long time with great sympathy and commendation. We estimate that its scientific research and its social work are closely linked to the mission of the Ombudsman." Support of the University of Maribor, dekana prof. Dr. Jožet Floriančič, Faculty of Organizational Sciences in Kranj; support of Lenart's Centre for Social Work, I will read the last sentence: "For the sake of professional and human qualities, we propose it as the Ombudsman, an extraordinary professor Dr. Marija Ovsenik." Union of workers of the Red Cross of Slovenia - ladies and gentlemen, the Red Cross of Slovenia! - support for candidacy, just one piece: "How important is the professional and human spirit to ensure fundamental rights for people when they are violated. Support for Mrs. Maria Ovsenik." The Society of Distrophysicians of Slovenia simply said: "We do not know a better candidate for this current task than Dr. Marija Ovsenik." Support for a group of students in master's and doctoral studies, etc. Finally, however, from one of the respected institutions, the institutions of Dr. Anton Trstenjak support the candidacy of Professor Dr. Marija Ovsenik for the Ombudsman. Of course, there is still a lot of support. I've only read a few tiny bits of this to you. Maybe it's because a lot of people probably didn't read all the support in full. It's only right that we say that from this town. However, Mr President had the opportunity to choose a person with a lot of support. It is true that Mrs. Beblereva also received some support, including some Horticulture society, but not [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u25	Mr. Pukšič has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u26	However, we also respect this support, but, ladies and gentlemen, there is an essential difference. The proposal proposed by the President to the National Assembly unfortunately suggests that he will give his seat to some served-up politicians in both the first and second cases, which, of course, is not good. With this proposal, or with the proposal for the Ombudsman, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are, unfortunately, still losing their hope to live and develop our democracy. In fact, we have only a warning from the weak opposition, the Social Democratic Party and New Slovenia. This, of course, will make it clear and loud that it will not support such usurpation methods. Therefore, Members, those, and Members who are not bound by any promise or payment, those who may vote in conscience, vote in conscience, and Mrs Darja Lovtijar-Bebler will not be elected as the Ombudsman of Human Rights. This will give us the opportunity to have a real Ombudsman for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Puksich. I ask, on behalf of the Group of Members, does anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I guess not. I also note that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, he did not apply for a debate within a certain time limit in order to be able to speak unlimitedly, none of the Members and Members of Parliament, so as to limit the debate of those who may now be in a position to speak freely to 5 minutes. Anybody want a word? Please, my friend Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u28	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members and Members, a respected candidate for the post of Ombudsman! I will speak as I think, and very clearly. For me, the proposal of the President of the country is an expression of a new mind and old trade within the same family. I'm sorry that this closet makes TV impossible to spot me, a procedural call. Look. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u29	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u30	Look, this store is gonna look like this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u31	My friend Peterle! You're right. You have the right to have all the same conditions as everyone else. I can invite you for this pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u32	Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u33	Of course, your debate should not last longer than 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u34	Your Honor! I've only pointed out the inequality of conditions, not any desire for privileges. So I'm saying it's going to be a known way in the same family. The LDS will support the candidate for a constitutional judge and the combined list of candidates for the Ombudsman will be as it should be. The president of the Republic, who has repeatedly talked about different criteria, is not supposed to be met by political officials or by people with strong political exposure, but by two politically-exposed candidates, and I do not see any will for balance, which can also characterise a structured democracy. It's about everyone being ours; I don't understand it, I can't understand it any different. I call no one for generosity, but for the harmony of words with actions. If the criteria already referred to by the predecessors have been highlighted so much, then the President would be expected to make an effort and propose other candidates, and of course I also call for a measure that could or should be an expression of our democracy. If they keep going, I'd say only the people of one province, then I don't think this is going to be good for our democracy. And, of course, I have a question for Mrs. Candidate. With regard to a fundamental fact which took place in Slovenia and in which it also participated. Mrs Beblereva was among those Members whose referendum will regarding electoral systems did not mean much to them or in fact opposed it all the time. I wonder what will be the fate of those who will be scolded in connection with this right in her office if this office takes over. Will she even accept them, or will she conscientiously reject them? This is a very important matter for me, and I remain, of course, on what I have been saying all the time when it came to the question of the referendum on the electoral system, so that it does not appear to play with the will of the people and here was the candidate lady on the side or not on the side of the people. However, I think that a man in this place should absolutely consider the institute of referendum as the highest forms of direct democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Comrade Peterle. Anyone else want a word? Please. Would you like to speak here, too? Please, my friend Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u36	Thank you, President, for allowing me to come to the pay phone. Ladies and gentlemen! At first, although the elections will be secret, I must say that I do not support Mrs Bebler. And in no case would I support it for any other function that citizens are appointed to. I'd like to begin with President Kucan's proposal. Personally, I find it humiliating for citizens and citizens of Slovenia to play with the laws, even if they give them the opportunity to formulate their own proposal. It makes no sense for me to have a call published, an invitation to all institutions in Slovenia and to all Slovenes and Slovenes to propose their candidates within the time limit possible. This was done by a number of Slovenian institutions and individuals and proposed 22 candidates, who, to put it mildly, remained extremely stupid because they applied. Simply because President Kučan's move led them into total ignorance and it is a complete nonsense that they sacrificed their personality time, as well as the procedure for candidacy. If the President of the country was a man, I will say in his own words, then I would have done the topotesis right away, but I have the feeling that everything was too much looking for Mrs Bebler's new job, which unfortunately, I will say, again, after the election to the National Assembly, was not elected. Personally, I will never forget and also most resent you, ma'am, your mockery of the less educated Members of the previous reference and your calls for you to make the system so that people with secondary and lower education could not come to the National Assembly. I myself have been warned on several occasions that this is a matter of people, a matter of people, but I wonder how you will defend equality as a guardian of human rights if for years you have not been able to find a compromise between differences in people. I have suffered for several days and hours alone, as one of the two persons or Members of Parliament, for the incompatibilities of my functions as director of the quasi-company and MPs. At that time, I have repeatedly pointed out that many Members and Members have not yet submitted within the legal time limit either forms A and B, which are legally required to complete all the elected ones, and I have a document to prove that Mrs Beblereva has not done so more than a year after the expiry of the deadline. I would like to know how you will respect the constitutionality and legality of this country if you did not even respect the laws applicable to everyone in your current employment. Last but not least, it's a personal matter. Before the end of the previous term, Mrs Beblereva went crazy from my last name. At that time, she said the word "Rupar - Hole", and I am glad that the "hole" has still remained in Parliament, it was fulfilled only today when you sat in Parliament. Personally, I think that Mr Drnovšek should give a lot of thought and appoint one of the Goran Members to be Secretary and a higher office in order for you to come as a Member of the National Assembly. Personally, I would take this very hard because of course I would risk continuing your mockery of men, but for the country and all those who would seek justice with the Ombudsman, that would be inappropriately better. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u37	My friend Rupar, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u38	I'll be done. I'm sorry that there are so many people in this country who have to get a reward just because they are. And I am sorry that an institution such as the Ombudsman's Institute will lose its value by any choice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u39	Thank you very much, colleague Rupar. Anyone else want a word? Please, Mr. Groschel.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u40	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Darja Lavtijar! I must say that I am extremely happy because I come from Zasavje, from such a beautiful place that is worthy of sighting and is also worth considering the initiatives that come from this place. It is true that Zasavje is known for being a working class, a working class in all environments. As Mr Rupar recently stated in this esteemed Parliament that it was a place of communism. This is a position of employment, it is a place of honesty, of frankness, of sincerity, there are places where they can assess which person should be given adequate support to the candidate. Therefore, I bring only this initiative, which came from the places of Zasava, came from Zagorje, came from Trbovlje and included Hrastnik. Here are so important societies, such as the disabled society, where you yourself have seen that only in Zagorje, on behalf of 752 members, have signed so many and so many of them, as well as all other societies that have the character of a civil initiative of citizens, from Zasavje, have discovered that Mrs Darja Lavtijar-Bebler is an honest and trustworthy lady, whom citizens and citizens, as well as we from Zasavje, can appreciate and love. That is why, of course, all of us who come from this place will also give her appropriate support, and I congratulate her on her election now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Groschel. Anyone else want a word? Please, my friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u42	Dear Members and Members. I could have made myself known even before they had the floor of the parliamentary group, but I thought that it would be available for some time, that I would be able to primarily try to answer some of the questions that Mr Peterle and, of course, also Mr Rupar spoke about, and both of them, which represented the views and opinions of the members of the New Slovenia Group and Social Democracy. I can discuss, Mr Pukšič, I can speak for myself and I have five minutes at my disposal, as have the two predecessors. I know the rules, I don't need to be warned, but now you've got a few seconds, but nothing to do with it. Look. These discussions, which Mr Peterle and, above all, Mr Rupar presented here, and, of course, that I do not forget Mr Puksic, point to something that is, in fact, one of the fundamental problems in this country when it is not desired and does not accept in any way that every citizen, every citizen, every Member and every Member has the right to his or her position, to his or her opinion, to end up running for certain functions in this country. Although it is discriminatory, which is in the statute of RTV and, of course, also in the law, that Members cannot run for office on RTV. I think it's against the Constitution, but we'll be able to talk about it another time. When you talk about what Mrs Beblereva did not accept, what she did, how ugly that she spoke, however, shows that you are not able to accept a different view, different ideas regarding individual issues. I agree, there are differences, and Mrs Beblereva is, if in what, at least as my fellow Member, was valued, after she has always laid down her word for all those borders, as well as the problems that have arisen in the daily lives of citizens and citizens, and even when our government wanted to adopt a law in Parliament that could possibly restrict the right of an individual, including Members and Members, even then she put her word in perspective and agreed with it or disagreed with both party colleagues and, of course, others. I believe that in the years that she and Mr Bavcon were involved in the previous regime, which you call a strange regime, in the establishment of the First Committee for the Protection of Human Rights. She was even the secretary of that committee and not all started on day x, but in this country, of course, in the previous country, something was involved in the foundations of the civil society and, of course, also some institutions, so that a new order, a new state, a different political system, a system that should have a greater sense of human rights could be created. It is precisely to prevent a variety of deviations, abuses and abuses of human rights that the ombudsman or ombudswoman, if any, or whatever the name may be, will be the guardian of human rights, who, despite the fact that he belongs to some circle of people, will be one of the parties who, of course, unrelentingly exclaims human rights. No, on the contrary, ladies and gentlemen, the LDS is still about the state getting the Ombudsman, that at every step and every move, there is a voice heard by citizens through the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman that they wish to report to the government. And therefore believe that with a peaceful conscience we will support Dara Lovtizjar-Bebler as the guardian of human rights, because we know that we will first receive the greatest omens, if anything is not as it must be, for the good of the people in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u43	Thank you very much, colleague Anderitch. Do any other Members or Members want to do this? Yes, please. Mr. Bernick. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, madame candidate! Looks like we have different news. My conscience tells me that I will not vote for this candidate for various reasons. Madam will forgive me if I say some delicate things, but because Mr President of the Republic has appointed her to this city, we must say what we think. The best recommendation for this candidate was written by the President of the Republic, which is not his function as well as by Kviaz. I've been through the rest of it, and I have to say, he doesn't hold water if I may say so. It is noted that Mrs Bavcon's Commission was the initiator, or whatever its name was, of the world, and I would like to point out this - and I followed this very faithfully at the time that this Commission came into being. It was created in 1987, that is, when the fate was still in progress and all the rest, but this commission did not defend any of it against this society, it was set up to try to save those who might have a bad conscience on the part of the old regime. Mr Anderlich, who could not remember exactly what the regime was like before, I would like to point out that we probably agree that this regime was undemocratic, that it was totalitarian and that it was only insurmountable. Good. As for the office itself, which is one of the best, I would say, the most prominent civil society offices, but I would like to draw attention to the following. So far, the Ombudsman has had great difficulty in solving things the way he should. This is an office whose head is very well paid, one among the highest, secondly, has excellent offices, I think even the President of the Republic does not have such, has all the advantages and issuances every year of a report on nice, beautiful, precious paper. I've read everything, but I haven't seen the essentials there. So, personally, for three years now, I have been waiting for what this former Ombudsman would have done after I wrote him about something that was a true civil disgrace. And I'm still waiting today for what he's gonna get from the D.A.'s attorney, who's so beautifully handed over to him, they're gonna do it. It has been said that if you do not follow the rules, you will not be able to enforce them. If the lady herself, who has been very politically engaged all the time, could change her mentality if she could forget about the things that have been done and really dig into what the little man is complaining about, and especially what, say, these people feel about this country that is doing them wrong. The former Ombudsman did not dare touch any of these things because he knew that he would stumble on some high foot. We have democracy now, but I would call it a planned democracy. I am surprised that in these two places that we are discussing today, the President of State feels the need to appoint people to be recycled politicians. This is absolutely impossible for a lady to stand up to her past to defend the people coming from the other shore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I give my word to my colleague Anderlich, who asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u46	I still remember very well, Mr Bernik, what a regime it was in the past, because I was on the other side of the regime, not on the other side of the regime. You may not know this, because you've been following this from afar, and I know that because I've been following it from the inside, and along with your friend sitting in front of you, you can talk about it, it'll be easier to explain it to you than I do. So, I said, I don't know what you call it, because once you call it totalitarian, once communist, once one way or another. Apparently, you name it differently for various purposes, but history will write down a page and it will get that period of its place. But look! I volunteered for a discussion or a replica for something simple. So, your client and the SDS party by this logic, which you have been implementing for half a year, does not want the State of the Republic of Slovenia to have a guardian or guardian of human rights. I hereby base this on the fact that, when the proposal was made in the State Assembly from the previous reference, not one vote of the Social Democrats was put forward for a proposal made by the President of the State, the former Ombudsman, who, of course, carried out a mandate, could be assessed as having done it poorly, the President of the State assessed that it was good, and all those who voted for it to be able to renew their mandate. Well, you turned it down at the time. Now there is another proposal - you say that this is politically unacceptable. That one, Mr Bernik, was very close to your political resource, which produces constructs on an ideological basis: whoever is for such ideology is ours, and if that is right, but if someone else is, of course we have to deal with inappropriate people. You even said, "Rescribed politicians," which I find offensive to anyone who finishes his term of office. So, in your opinion, it would be difficult for someone who, say, at 35, 40 or 50 years of age to complete a period, some mandate in Parliament, to do anything else in life. I think that this is a serious limitation of human rights and the right for every citizen to have the right to work, to functions and to run under the procedure prescribed for it. This seems to me to be an important force when we talk about such functions. Not at all. You've been waiting for an answer. I don't know how long. If you want to get an answer from the guardian, we have to choose him. It's an opportunity today.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Kacin, a debate or a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u48	It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u49	It's a replica. Please. If one of those who sits in these types wants to discuss sittings, of course he can do so, but all colleagues now have the same right. Please, buddy Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I'd like to object to a respected colleague, Bernick, whom I think he may have been a little betrothed. He said here, "There was only one thing he couldn't do." I'm the fruit of this nonsense, everything I know, I learned in this regime, then I graduated, and that's where I come from. And since I'm not the oldest in this National Assembly, I hope to say that there are as many as two-thirds of a single fool here, according to you, even on this side of you, where are the parties that are more on the right. I don't think that kind of qualification is in place. That it's a simplification, that disqualification, that it's insulting. And I, Mr Bernick, would expect you to apologize for this disqualification. From all that insurrection, a single country has emerged, which is now relatively successful compared to others. And also all this reference to this House, even the most passionate of all, were taught in the same time of the same insurrection. It may have been a lot of nonsense, but it just wasn't. And the oldest Member would expect him not to say such things here. However, if he is already denied, Mr Bernik, we respected you when you held the first founding session of this national assembly, it would be appropriate for you to apologize for what you said and said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok asked for a replica. If you want, you can talk from here and then you can talk from behind him, Comrade Jerovšek. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I'll be right out of here, because it was somehow told us that this closet is sending us a camera view, that we're allowed to perform there, and now I see other colleagues who are otherwise visible are going to the pay phone, and I'm just gonna be out of here not wasting my time. So as for this last one, as Mr Kacin said, I would tell him that Mr Bernik is the oldest Member in this House and, of course, he has experienced much more in life than perhaps we have with Mr Kacin, who is much younger. And I don't think it's wise for a young man like me to ask him to apologize. So that's the first thing I want to say. Secondly, the debate itself shows that President Kučan did not act the wisest when he proposed Ms Lovtišar-Bebler as a candidate. This is not because, as my predecessors have already found, it is for a politically extremely exposed person, a person who has no objection to her views, Mr Anderlich, that is not an issue for her. Of course, we deny that in Parliament she has been insulted many times by other parliamentarians as well as by the rest of the public. After all, I have been monitoring the election of the Bajuk government myself, and we could say a lot about that moment, how some of this has already been said. Of course, no one here would deny her the right to run because everyone has the right to run. However, it is denied that she has missed the deadline; it is said that the hands in this country are not valid. Then why are we prescribing them? Then we don't need them. However, if, at the outset, certain rules are violated by law, then the question is how such a person will be able to protect the rights of citizens at a later stage. In fact, this is what we fear most in the opposition, and in fact we also deny it.We are aware that we are few, that we cannot prevent Mrs Bebler's election, but we can in this national assembly, and if that is right or wrong, let us draw attention to matters that are at stake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Sok. Mr Jerovšek has the floor, Mr Partlič.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Two things Mr Anderlich has said must be answered. In fact, let him respect his words and his opinions and not immediately contradict them in the next replica - that is, you said exactly what you said about the previous regime and said, "You call him strange." So, you don't call him weird, now you like him, and some of the president's moves show that he wants to reincarnate. You said, "you call him weird." If you cancel this immediately and do not stand by your words, you will say again today that what you wrote down on Saturday is that the president of the National Assembly is the person with the least sense of organization, that it is only a demonstration and a protocol - today you will cancel this. In fact, look, a man like that, even if he's in a position like that, he has to stand by his own words, not just attack. Another time. You accused this site of wanting no human rights guardian. We want this function to be originally covered and we are working on it and, see, we could have it a long time ago. We have proposed that, in this strong choice, the President of the State propose a non-conflict, politically non-conflict person; this time it was a choice. There were strong recommendations, strong support for some candidates, and we could certainly come here with a candidate who did not have political conflicts. Mr President of the State could stand up for such a thing, and he could recommend, for example, that your party, who would have a great deal on his recommendation, would have such a candidate and would have chosen him. On the other hand, we do not want to have one, but if the President of the State does not take into account the calls and public calls, I could have proposed a new candidate a long time ago. I'd just ask the university who they're proposing, who they're supporting, and I'd send a candidate. For example, there two universities supported one candidate who was non-party, never engaged in politics, is a recognised expert, and would have had one. Support these original criteria for natural law, but not now so, now otherwise, and turn everything around every moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Partljič has the floor, Dr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u56	My replica is valid for Mr Bernick, so it may be good that he may be able to include something in his replica if he may find my performance controversial. Since we are in Prešeren's month, I could say that in my age it is true that man is what he says when he says, "the habits of butare the shoulders and soles of the skin over and over became," and rarely anything hurts in Parliament. The idea that I was born in 1940, and I couldn't know at our border either for partisans or for patriots, that these years in which I was educated, I had a family, I found a profession, I was a teacher, and then I wrote some books in the theaters, that I now have to feel guilty or burned because I was living in some kind of madness. I have to say, what Slovenia is going to do is keep digging in two pieces. Since I studied at the Pedagogical Academy, I also learned to measure an intelligent quantum, and I was measured twice, and it's not very average to say, even though I was among the brighter in class, but it's not, I can't brag about it. But so for 50 years of the history of a nation, which could have been politically unfortunate in a number of moves, to put an end to this, it would have looked as if only those who did not live in Slovenia were actually the real ones. I can say more, I don't want to be, I don't want to get any deeper, I'm just expressing my self-interest. As far as I've been following, I don't know, problems in Argentina, military regimes, etc., we can't tell if there's been any nonsense going on anywhere else. To me, the qualification of Slovenian history and the history of our own people and the people we have just lived here, because we were not all able to leave Slovenia or we did not need, fortunately, such a qualification in such a discussion seems painful. As you have ever suffered, I must say, Commissioner, that you have hurt me. As for the candidate. Let me say that she was not a member of the Communist Union and was never an expressive regimeman. Her father was in prison and punished by the former authorities. It's the only thing she's never mentioned or acted on. That's why I think it's ideological to refuse doesn't say. She had some human peculiarities. She used to talk without hair on her tongue. I'm sure she'll be like this in advance, with those who will cut people's rights. Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Dr. Bernick, you have the floor. [[Microphone!]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u58	Yeah, well, you can see I'm the oldest Member because I can't turn on the microphone. I'm not going up there because the camera could be broken. But I'll say this. I thank Mr. Kacin for his warning. I'm not gonna apologize, but I'm gonna make it right. In fact, I should have given it right then. I didn't say, or I meant to say, "One mind," and that's what I'm behind. If you have to apologize now, I'll say I won't. Enoumje - well, we all admit that, because it writes about it and so on, and I don't know why some would want to defend the old regime, because they've already gone all over the world, but not with us. As far as being wounded or anything else is concerned, I could say the same thing about some of the notes. But if a person is in this congregation, he has some things, truths, or things to endure, or else he is not in this congregation. So I would ask that we try to say what we want, directly, without offense. Now I will go to what has been said that your option seems to know only two candidates, and this is Mr Ivan Bizjak and Mrs Lovtišar-Bebler. As if there were no intelligent, honest, good-natured people anywhere, even if Marxist or anything, is ordinary, the main thing is that a person who has proved himself in life can do something for a person who has a country's feet or suffers from other things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Kacin, behind him is colleague Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to object to the part of the debate of my distinguished colleague, Mr Bernick, who just said that we only know two candidates. I'd like to warn him about what's called the agenda item. When we voted on the agenda, we also adopted this point, and we are discussing one candidate. Therefore, all the debates about universities, about supporting this or that, are irrelevant. The agenda item is a proposal submitted by the President of the country, Mr Milan Kučan, and refers to the candidate who is sitting here today and we are discussing it. Whoever the Ombudsman was before, who also signed up for the invitation to tender, may be an interesting topic, but it has nothing to do with today’s point. And please, let's stick to the agenda, Mr President, and I ask you to tell someone else what I just said in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u61	Mr. Anderlich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u62	There is no need, although there is only one thing to say. The Liberal Democracy did not propose a candidate, proposed by the President of the country who decided after the talks, including Mr Jerovsk, who is now loud and jumps into the floor. Of course, we are determined on the basis of the proposal we have, and it is undeniable that our support on the part of Mrs Darji Lovtijar-Bebler. Mr Bernik, of course, the difference must be made. And if you've listened carefully before to Mr Rupar, Mr Jerovsk and anyone else, or say Mr Pukšič, you may have noticed that this is only because they did not agree with its performance in the previous term, because it was firm to the views of political opponents because it was insurmountable in its beliefs when it spoke of things that were on the agenda. You're actually reading that you can't stand the difference. On the contrary. It's about reading to someone else because he had an opinion, and that's why she can't be a candidate for the Ombudsman. That seems to me like a crazy logic, and I don't accept it. I've voted for a lot of people who didn't come from this nest, as you say or someone before, said there, from the same area in this national council, if we're talking about seats. It is interesting, however, that Mr Jerovšek, because I must say to him that in nothing at all, he does not mention in any way their conduct, it is yours and personally yours, in the spring work, when we also had the president's proposal on the agenda, which we also did not propose, nor was he proposed by the Slovenian People's Party at the time, because it seems to me that it was a single party, but it was proposed by the President, and there was not a single vote. Why? Because he thinks otherwise. Because he had a different political belief because, I don't know, he was inappropriate, but he's been the Ombudsman for six years. There was no justification. I can only explain why there was no support or what was orbiting the towers. Some even mentioned why he did not receive support today. But of course I'm not going to bring the discussion back. So, I've been wondering, and I'm still wondering why no one that the President proposes with, let's say, conditionally, one political option or another political option is going through this national assembly with your support. I do not understand that the opposition does not want to include the Ombudsman in that part of public life and work when it comes to pointing out the mistakes of power, current authorities, governments, state institutions and so on. A mechanism that is even more appropriate to monitor things in a country that is wrong and that they are also being eliminated or that the government must be aware of its mistakes and that there may be some interpretations and similar things that have already been done in the past because of various reports by the former Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Anderlich. Mr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u64	I thank both the speakers for their training. However, I had no intention of suggesting that Mr Kacin must have misunderstood that anyone else would have been treated. But Mr. Anderlich just mentioned that we're not for each other, not for the other. It's like we only have two options, and now we only have one. It seems to me that we need to consider, however, what it will be like for a person who has a certain conviction, a function, and a belief, and I would give my hand for it, to have it. However, this is not the same as being said that such conduct or belief or ideology is appropriate for one such function that we are trying to decide today. These are two very different things. I have nothing to complain against Mrs Bebler, as far as her conviction is concerned, but I do not think that this belief is appropriate for such a function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Comrade Pukšič, behind him colleague Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u66	It's not understandable. It's not on.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u67	It's a microphone. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u68	I turned it on. Mr Anderlič has called me twice when I spoke on behalf of the Group of Members, and now Mr Kacin is talking about the proposal, so what should we actually discuss, I would like to say, of course, that much and that is not exactly what you are talking about. Look. The right to say what options the President had during the election and that the President did not take advantage of this is, of course, a gentleman of liberal democracy, our right. We'll take advantage of that in the National Assembly and say it. To choose, of course, with the option you have in the coalition and to decide otherwise, it is possible and likely that this will even happen, although unfortunately citizens and citizens of this country will. You know, the creative interpretation of the law didn't come into my ear when Mrs. was a Member of Parliament. But what about now, if there is, of course, I hope that she will not be the guardian of human rights. Colleagues and colleagues, those who do not know or have less track record when Mrs Beblereva has so advocated defending those who have intrigued and truly acted on the injury or violation of the human rights of some individuals who have set their heads during the Slovenian war, is, listen, with one word, incomprehensible. At the end. Why not wait at home and be surprised at the proposal made by the President of the State? Why did she have to reinterpret the deadline for the application after her creative work? Why did she even go to do that? If the president of the country chose her as one of the million women in this country, I would. Why did she have to try the filing intrigue, i.e. when the deadline ran out, etc.? Yeah, maybe that's how she warned herself. I mean, that's incomprehensible. In view of all that has been said here today, I would actually expect the candidate to stand up and say, "Thank you for the proposal to the President of the country and I will not run for office" and this point would end.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u69	Thank you very much, buddy Puksich. Comrade Jerovšek has the floor, followed by his colleague Celigoj.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I have to take a call because Mr Anderlič apparently immediately mentioned Jerovšek after the intervention, he mentioned me in the first context, as if I had mentioned or identified Mrs Bebler in any way. Absolutely not, I was only protesting against your integrity because you have withdrawn your views and opinions. However, I am surprised, I think that the LDS has proposed it, or, if Mrs Bebler's own proposal is based on the role assigned to the Vice-Holmec Commission. Although she is a lawyer, she had to serve some relatively low blows on behalf of the party, including quite a number of Mr Anderlich. This has been the case since she replaced Mr Jakič, that you replaced Jakič, who was appointed in the party to take the lowest blow, and they replaced him with Mrs Bebler. Do you understand? I don't know, such a strong party could find a suitable place for a former Member, that would be a duty. However, I would not now point out Mrs Bebler's profession after actually exploiting it in some way in the previous term, that she had to deny her lawyer's profession quite often, and now she is "breathing" at that place that she had disabled in her previous term.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u71	Thank you very much, colleague Jerovšek. Comrade Cheligoj, behind him is a colleague of Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u72	Dear Mr. President, the well-respected assembly. As a member of Mrs Bebler's Common Member DeSUS, I would like to say that we have considered Mrs Bebler's candidacy thoroughly, assessed it very positively and, of course, we will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Comrade Cheligoy. Comrade Tuck, please. Mr Cukjati will be given the floor of Mr Barovic, Anderlič, Auschwitz and Jakšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u74	Honourable President, Honourable Assembly and Honourable Candidate! As a novelist in this congregation, I actually know you from your previous term as a television viewer, a reader of newspaper rubles. I know you from your board appearances, in the meetings where opinions were drawn, Vič-Holmec, referendum outcomes and so on. I have to say, as a viewer, I've got the impression that you have a foreign, very narrow worldview profile, and, well, I have to say, that's the impression I got, even with regard to the feeling of the inhabitants of our country, of the small people, somehow foreign to this function. I may be wrong, it's all possible - I'll have a chance to meet you if you're elected to this place - but I'm not the only one who feels that way, many of them, believe me. With these valuable categories of you and the value world, which is in some way foreign to me, I don't believe that if I'm in trouble and looking for the guardian's help, I'll come to you; I don't know. And there are many who will not seek your help as a result. I know the candidate for your candidacy also knows that. That's not what I'm worried about. I'm worried he insisted on your candidacy after all. Somehow the President of the country in these and similar matters is losing his at least political complacency, saying that he is blowing up at my feelings and at my senses, at my wishes, who is supposed to be the Ombudsman of human rights in Slovenia. And he's been screaming at the feelings of many others. That's what I'm worried about. And I'm worried it's based on such a high election outcome. That's what worries me, not your candidacy, the attitude of politics towards other people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u75	Thank you very much, mate Tucky. My friend Barovic has the floor, my friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u76	I think or I am sure that it is quite right that both the political and ideological options exchange their views in the national assembly, as they were exchanged in the working body. And I am sure that the leaders of the parliamentary groups have expressed similar opinions and concerns to the President of the country. Well, I'm grateful to Dr. Bernick today, too. He's right to speak. In fact, he reminded me that he is one of the many seekers of justice who is still waiting for some outcome. I pulled a parallel from the working bodies of this Parliament, where we talk a lot about people who run away or run away into the beautiful Western world, beautiful for them, of course, and in Slovenia they stop and seek political asylum just to survive, to survive nicely. We make laws for them, we demand from the judiciary, or we demand almost impossible for asylum seekers to live well, we will set up hotels for them, I don't know what else. Today, however, no one has spoken about how many thousands of Slovenians still seeking their right have nowhere to look. We have discussed several candidates with Mr President. It's true, and Dr. Ovsennikov's, and Mrs. Predan's. We searched and spoke to them in person and also gave our opinion on their positive statements made in direct contact with us. Then, apparently, Mr President thought that Mrs Bebler had the most support and probably the most appropriate. At this institute, we've decided, we'll believe. In particular, for five months there are people who seek their rights, who have no guardian, without a guardian. Let us make up our minds and give people the opportunity to seek their rights as soon as possible. Mr. Bernick thus warned how long it took to find this right at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Barovich. Mr Anderlich has the floor, Mr Ašić.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u78	Yeah, I don't know. I have been informed in writing that the Constitutional Court has today ruled on Mrs Predan's deadline or complaint. I've probably not been informed before, Mr Jerovšek, and everyone else. Those who spoke of the deadline being expired, why not those who were proposed during that period were appointed. When you read that, you'll understand that that deadline doesn't mean what you're saying here. Mr. Jerovšek, it's nice to talk about facts. Mrs Beblereva did not replace Mr Jakič in the so-called Jerovšek Commission. You were the chairman of the commission, and you should already know that she didn't replace it, but that Jakič was replaced by me, I'll tell you now, and that Mrs Bebler's second came to the committee, but you'll read the papers, and you'll find that out. We have estimated that, not as you think, it is necessary to reinforce some of the things that you interpret with a negative tone here, but that it is necessary for the work of the commission to run at least a little by the rules of procedure and in accordance with the law, to need someone who is particularly sensitive to the laws and regulations and who is still whipping all those who do not work by law and regulations. If you read the magnetograms, you will find that not one session of the commission has passed, at which you would not need to help in bringing the meeting together at all, because otherwise you would be in permanent and permanent violation of the law on parliamentary investigation and, of course, of the penal code at certain points, and of the rules of procedure of the same commission or investigative activities. Mr. Cuckoo, voters are always right. And it's bad if someone thinks they're wrong and has to worry about why most people have such a wrong opinion. It's manipulation of human souls, and it would be very good for no one to control them. So the voters have now decided whether or not to vote, and voters will also assess what a party has done at the end of the term. Now we've got the bills. But don't talk about people being wrong about what's been going on for the last six months before the elections. They looked at that, too, and they made up their minds. I don't want to think on behalf of anyone, and I don't care about the people you care about, because I think all people are capable of thinking for themselves and giving up their voice and deciding for themselves whether they did the right thing or not. And this is the engineering that we were used to, and this is a relapse of the previous regime; at the time, the party thought about everything and the party appointed the candidates and elected them. That's what happened back then. And if you think it is right that this way further develops democracy in Slovenia, I will certainly not be alone on your shore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Ašič has the floor, Mr. Jakič.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u80	Thank you very much. So, the debate has been going on all the time, in fact, about the mistakes that all our candidate, or candidate, President Kučan, has made for the Ombudsman. That she was not well - behaved on the boards, but that - yes - that she did not respect the will of the people, we heard that too. However, we have not heard anything about Dara Lavtijar having, in my opinion and in the belief of many, an extremely good professional qualification, which she has demonstrated over the past four years in the work and administration of the National Assembly Committee on Internal Policy, that it was the body that, in fact, also in some parts accompanied the work of the Ombudsman, that he was dealing with the judiciary, with the judiciary, with the legislation on internal affairs and the police, where he was most precisely on these two segments of cases that he received annually in the consideration of the Ombudsman's rights, and that she had certainly accumulated a great deal of experience here for her future work. Of course, each of them may have an opinion on the candidate's proposal by the President of the State, and the fact is that he can only propose one candidate or candidate, and the fact is that he estimated that Mrs. Darja Lavtizar-Bebler had the best chance of being elected this time. I think that Slovenia needs a guardian and that a mistake has been made by one of the coalition partners of the then ruling cabinet in the National Assembly, that it has not already been elected. This does not mean, of course, that we do not choose this once again because the SDS Members' Group does not respond to any of the proposals made by the President of the country, who, in some programmed democracy, as I have heard, has already been elected by majority will twice as President of the country. Well, about this will of the people, gentlemen, the will of the people has proved to be in this election, and I think you were very surprised that this people was more than they were when your famous referendum was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Jakič has the floor, followed by Mrs Zalokar-Orzam.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u82	Thank you, for your word. Let me, of course, at the outset, thank you immediately for the fact that none of you had any objection to the fact that five of us are occupied by the vacant seats, which, of course, gives hope that the diversity of opinions in this assembly is also welcome in this mandate. Let me, of course, immediately, given that my name has been mentioned twice after negligence, I will answer my colleague Jerovšk about my membership on his committee. Let me remind him, of course, that I withdrew from this commission precisely because I was on a business trip and he wanted to force the meeting as president when there was no LDS representative. That is why we have agreed in the LDS Group to come to Anderlich's committee instead of me. As you know, in the last four years, Mr Jerovšek, you could not confuse me with your melodies. Let me continue that, of course, he is also a candidate, I am going to the point of content - President Kučan, even in this letter, said that the proposed candidate received the greatest, not the unanimous, support. Of course, I don't understand that the SDS representatives in particular don't understand that they only have fourteen votes and that, of course, their proposal weighs fourteen votes, while others, of course, weigh more. She was an active member of the Human Rights Council, together with me in the first term 1990-1992, sitting on the Human Rights Commission in the then assembly, and of course not only sitting down, but also doing a lot of things, not least being the author of that work or co-author of that part of the Constitution that relates to human rights. I am talking about the previous mandate, where, in the Association Committee as well as in the Internal Policy Committee, it is human rights. It is precisely because it has always been hairless in the language, and of course this causes a major dispute here today, that I am sure that it will help those who are, of course, seeking such assistance in the Ombudsman. Let me conclude that, of course, it is 12 days, dear colleagues and colleagues, 12 days is until the new millennium, and we are still talking about lustrations, ugly views. I cannot get rid of the feeling that this whole discussion is about making those who are always "growls" account, not with LDS, but in this case with the President of the State, Milan Kučan, who, of course, always gets the highest percentages in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u83	Thank you very much, colleague Jakich. Colleague Zalockar-Arms, you have the floor. Behind you, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to say my opinion on Mr Sok's debate, which the candidate colleague Lavtizareva noted in particular that she lacked sufficient quality because she was too insulting in the National Assembly. As far as I have been able to monitor the meetings of the National Assembly so far, and as far as I know about the views of people around me and the excuses, I think it was one of the most tolerant and agreeable Members. I would like to tell my well-respected colleague that it is likely that members of the opposition will have, if this is a criterion for employment after the end of the term, a significantly greater problem than anyone else if this indignation is the criteria. However, I must also say that they are likely to have extreme problems because unfortunately they did not find membership in the Beblers regarding the communists and, of course, this would be the obvious one that they would probably sit for an hour longer today. Of course, it seems to me that many of the discussions on belonging are completely over, especially since unfortunately they cannot tell. But I'm concerned about the debate of my colleague Tsukati. Whenever someone wants to change the electoral base and doesn't like the electoral base, especially because I think it would take self-criticism and it would be necessary for such a Member to ask himself whether there might be something wrong with him or with his political option when he thinks that all the electoral base is wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u85	Thank you very much. A colleague of Jerovšek and his colleague Rokavec have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr Anderlič, of course, completely avoided the principles and the truth about the work of the Vič-Holmec Commission of Inquiry, and of course argued that he and Mrs Beblereva were on the committee in order to at least take place under the law and the rules of procedure. If he does not accept other arguments, however, we know how it was to read at least the written opinion of Mr Bevik, who, as an example of his acting under the Rules of Procedure, referred to the action on this committee, according to his political option. But Mr Anderlich expects him to get a thank you for his work, so he has expressed himself. I have to say, he worked so hard to avoid the truth with that committee, but I still thank him once if he thinks it was help. But above all, he is likely to be thanked by those who have been violated by human rights brought to The Hague tribunal for war criminals. We should thank him for preventing the conclusions of the Commission at the national assembly from being unanimously adopted because he prevented this by obstructing and delaying as a leader of the Group of Members. And now we should thank him. In fact, it would be in the style of gratitude such as that of slaves in the Roman amphitheatre, with the greeting of Emperor "Ave Cesar, Morituri te salutant". Mr. Anderlich, you're feeling guilty about the election victory, and you think we're going to feel like slaves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u87	Thank you very much, colleague Jerovšek. My friend Rokavec has his word, gentlemen, Kelemina, Tsukjat, Yuri and Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. I will dedicate my replica to my distinguished fellow Member, Mr Auschwitz. In fact, Mr Ašič has already thought similarly in Kviaz, but it has probably been mentioned several times in the debate today, and I think in some ways only the historical memory of the bad half-years needs to be told again today in this debate. The fact is that the then coalition party of the SDS did not support the appointment of the Ombudsman, Mr Biszak. It is also a fact that, after a vote in favour of the Ombudsman, the support of the LDS delegation at the time was half. Half. Full support could allow for elections, Mr Anderlich. Please, if you don't interrupt me. And then there's the other one. The fact is that the current position of the Ombudsman's Office is still ongoing. The work shall be carried out by the Deputy Ombudsman and shall have an officer of his own. On the other hand, this must not in any way cause us to lose the right time and to elect the Ombudsman as soon as possible. But, speaking of which, allow me also to express my thoughts on the proposal for Ms Bebler's candidate. I am convinced that the Ombudsman has to reflect in some way in fact in terms of - even in terms of discussing ideological contradictions in the country - in some way a right and a reassurance position. I have not been able to follow this up on many occasions in the debates held so far with Mrs Bebler. And in this regard, I actually have a question about the appropriateness of the proposed candidate for the Ombudsman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u90	Yes, thank you very much for your word. Respectable all together. I would allow myself, and I would also give Mr Ašić a replica, as well as some others, which, according to my assessment of all this debate, follows that you strongly convert all these words and adapt them in your own way, just as you are most responding and also falsifying certain statements. I'm pretty sure, but we can go look at today's magnetogram if someone said today that Mrs. Bebler's "ugly looking" or "wrong talking". On the committee, I was saying, "she looked unkindly" and "she didn't speak properly." Now, where you've heard this, I don't know, Mr. Auschwitz, and I'd like you to say it. So unilaterally, as you explain to yourself and then create these words, that is not how you do it; but if you have arguments, please give them. The opposition to this proposal, which the President of the State has made, has given its arguments, its concerns, and I think that you cannot deny them this right, at least for the time being, not as long as the old Rules of Procedure or Rules we now have are in force, that the debate is not limited or that everyone has the right to express his views, his thoughts on some issue. Of course, you will be able to vote with your majority, to which you now say so, and according to the power you have in this national assembly, anything you want. Thus you will also be able to vote that white paper is black paper, as Mr Praise sometimes mentioned, you will be able to do so today, sometimes you could not because you did not have such a majority; now you will be able to do so, with your satellites and with your supporters you have but the question is, if you actually have a mandate to do so, if the voters who supported you are in favour of voting for black paper; this is a question. And this is where we actually talk about these things, so far it's coming. Well, anyway, let's leave it at that, because it doesn't matter, you'll vote whatever you want. However, given that Mrs Beblereva will be elected guardian, I firmly believe that the number of applications will decrease significantly and that this will also make a major contribution to democracy in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Sugar has a word after him, Mr Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u92	Your Honor! It's just a short replica, given some of the ambiguities. It was said that in no way can I accept the election result or that I do not value the will of the people as necessary. I don't think I've made myself clear. I'm sorry. In fact, I personally deeply respect your electoral outcome, liberal democracy - I have already congratulated my colleague Beumann, for he has picked up inappropriately more votes than I have received - I respect that. And I don't ask you, colleagues, to think in my thought circle, in my value system, at all. I respect your views; we are different, and that is why the National Assembly is here, that there are differences, for sure. However, I expect the President of the country to be my president, and that is something else. And I also expect the Ombudsman to be my guardian, the guardian of those values that I represent. Never let him represent my values by violating other values, but let him not represent other values by violating my values. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Cuckoo. Mr. Yuri, after him, Mrs. Bevk, Mr. Auschwitz, Mr. Anderlich and Mr. Zamernik.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u94	Thank you, President. I will be brief, and I will also try to contribute to shortening this debate. I may apologize for the assessment I am about to make, but I have already heard a lot of today's assessments, reflections at the election and appointment committee meeting, and therefore I appreciate that what I hear again today is boring, at least in those parts where some colleagues are repeating themselves. That is why I would ask, however, because we will not be convincing each other against what we have probably already decided to do at this point, and because any further discussion only strengthens everyone's conviction that we will give up further discussions because there is no or no public broadcast. The journalists have already picked up, I think, what was interesting about the flower or the emphasis from the discussions so far. For two hours, we've been smoking for this, followed by another candidacy, which is likely to trigger similar concerns - some. That is why I am asking and calling on everyone to shorten the debate and bring this debate to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. I will replicate to Mr Jerovsk in terms of clarification. I think it is high time that respected Mr Jerovšek stopped quoting my praise for the functioning of his parliamentary commission of inquiry, because I commended her only in comparison with the methods of the work of the related investigative commission led by his client colleague, Mr Franz Pukšič. Otherwise, I support Mrs Bebler's candidacy and I propose that we move to a vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u97	Three more have been reported. In order, Mr. Ašič, Anderlich and Zammernik.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u98	First of all, it's quite short for Mr. Kelemini. Believe me, I didn't exactly mean you. I generalized what I heard at the board meeting and today. But if you've identified yourself in this, then it's no big deal. The other thing I'd like to say to Mr Rokavac is, I'll say so. Since there are only many new Members in this House, although today this structure has improved slightly and has tended to the benefit of the elderly, I would like to say how this vote has been carried out because I was prepared to have such an objection. Well, the vote was on the first proposal this year, 12.7. at 15.34. 62 Members were present, 53 were in favour and only three were in favour. Only the three "against" members of the SDS Group were Members, and everyone else did not vote. Since the Members of Liberal Democracy, 13 Members "yes" have not been present, which is more than half of the Group of Members. So if the coalition partner with whom the SLS was then, and thus also the candidate Ivo Bizjak, somehow, gave at least half of the votes in their Member's joint vote, we would not be discussing today's proposal for a candidate for the Ombudsman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u99	Dear colleagues who are not in the Chamber, I allow myself to say that we will soon vote, only two more have been declared. Voting is public and requires a two-thirds quorum. Gentlemen, I also invite Mr Anderlich and Mr Zammernik to the floor. Please, Mr. Anderlich? [[Ambassador Anderlich, incomprehensible.]] Thank you very much. Mr. Zampernik.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich is quickly changing his mind. That's what happened this time. I thank him for his gentlemanly advantage! Of course, he also said that he would wait for me and then he would call. However, I am correcting Mr Anderlich's statement and Mrs Zalokar Orazem's esteemed colleague, because it was somehow an acknowledgment to us that we disagreed with the will of the people who showed their will in the elections. In practice, Mr Cuckoo has already responded very well, but I would also like to add to this that we would not at any time have been challenged to think as we were trying to attribute that people should be replaced. I will, of course, have to categorically reject this, because at the elections in my district, LDS had a very quality and good candidate who, unlike this candidate, might even have supported them if I had not been a candidate. But on the fair side, he got less votes than I did, and I beat him. So that the people's will is by no means to disrespect, as some of the predecessors have done. However, so that people can be wrong with some kind of help, and, of course, there are other media outlets, and I allow that. They may have made a mistake in my case, and perhaps it would have been better for them if they had supported and supported your party's candidate, because this intolerance, which now manifests to other thinkers, would have been reflected in the people I represent; that people might have been wronged, and Mr Anderlič, as an interpreter - today's - you may recall that some 2,000 years ago, people were asked to release the villain. So, even this possibility must somehow be taken into account that people are sometimes wrong. [[...]] I hope that this was not the case in my case and that I will be able to represent these people well and with dignity, no matter what guardian or guardian of human rights we will have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u101	Okay. My friend Anderlich! Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u102	Yes, Mr. Ambassador, I thought I should wait. I'm sure in your case, the voters weren't mistaken. It's hard to miss you, believe me! And there's always the voice of the right person when someone's exposed like you. So I absolutely believe they're not wrong, as is the case with some others. But of course, you also have to let people not be wrong when they voted for someone else, but it's not a problem for me at all, and I'm not dealing with it, unless you're trying to put it on your head. For me, the day the official outcome was announced, and long ago, it was clear what the ratio of power was and how it would be. But now, of course, we are talking about a candidate for the Ombudsman and because Mr Rokavec mistakenly said that the LDS could then elect Mr Bizak. Yes, you can. It could be if at that point everyone was in the hall. It must be said, however, that the majority of the LDS were on the side of Mr Biziak, those who were, that some had obligations at the time, even because some of you, too, were of yours - I think Mr Kramberger - was there. But the problem is, what we're talking about in the SLS is that you're an SDS lawyer. That SDS was the one who didn't contribute a single vote. If the SDS had contributed so many votes, percentage by group of Members, so half, would have been enough. 53 + 8 is 61. It would have been enough, but they didn't want to, they didn't want to, because they wanted to talk to each other about a matter that they said was a mistake or a wrong view of the Ombudsman in some particular case, with a pears and cars. And with her head pounding into a pear. When someone accidentally ran into a pear. That's the problem. And then, of course, it looked as if the guardian had put himself on the wrong side; that he did not protect those who were fooling, but he protected those who had been trampled into pear. This was an example of which there was not a single vote of the Social Democrats, but we will not discuss it. I'm surprised that Mr. Rokavec "straped" a lawyer here to social democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u103	Mr. Zampernik.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u104	Well, all of Mr Anderlich's statements would be hard to answer, because he probably doesn't know what he's saying, with all this pushing and not pushing and pear-resistance and so on. But it's only the beginning of your statement about the mistakes or the voters who made the mistake or the voters who didn't make the mistake. You're a master at twisting words and facts. And I would ask you not to draw from this that anyone here claims that any of the voters have made a mistake. But I said that I am allowing the possibility of this - and now comes the point of this - that they were wrong in my case, because they will be viewed as second-class because they chose someone who is not in that option that has a majority here in the National Assembly. And, Mr Anderlich, you know very well what efforts have been made to represent the part that I represent here, but unfortunately, many times failed before; even before this option has meant even more, I am afraid that this will be all the more stressed. That at most of what you have, the areas from which we come those who are not legitimate in your belief will be neglected, compared to those that are on the line with your interests and the things you represent.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u105	Please. Before I give the floor to Mr Rokavac, without referring specifically to any of the speakers, I would point out that in part the discussion referred to things that were not under discussion. While it is always difficult to specify the exact limit on such matters, I think we agree that in some things the discussion does not concern the subject matter. So I would call on everyone to try to hold on to this as much as possible. Mr. Rokavec has the word, Mr. Štemberger has it, and then - Mr. Lavrinc, did you want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u106	Now, President, you've already told me. All I wanted to do was point out the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u107	Okay. Mr. Rokavec, and the last reported is Mr. Stemberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. It is probably necessary to respond again to the epilogue that Mr Anderlich has just staged. Clearly, it must be said that I am neither a lawyer of the SDS nor that I intend not to be a lawyer of the LDS, but to know the situation and events that took place in July, when the vote on the Ombudsman was also on the agenda of the State Assembly, it should be stressed once again that the LDS had stated that it would support Mr Ivo Bizjak's candidacy. More than 13 members of the LDS, Mr Anderlich, sat in the Chamber, but, of course, 13 members of the LDS decided to support themselves. So it is also necessary to make clear here what the actual position of the LDS was. If all those sitting in the hall had decided, then the Ombudsman would have been elected.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Štemberger, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u110	Thank you. It would be time to present our opinion on the proposal for a candidate for the Ombudsman before the vote. Members of our parliamentary group, on the basis of the candidates for the Ombudsman, have conducted interviews with the three candidates who have submitted applications within the time limit. We also had a conversation with Mrs Lovtišar-Bebler, who subsequently applied for her candidacy. On the basis of the presentation of individual candidates, we have unanimously supported the candidacy of Mrs Marija Ovsenik, who, in her presentation, has made a convincing presentation of her work and views on the operation of the Ombudsman's tasks. References from eminent Slovenian institutions, including both universities, its political uncertainty and, above all, our expertise have convinced us that she is the best candidate for the Ombudsman's tasks and we remain in this support. Since Mr President has proposed approval by a candidate who has not received support from our party, we will not support the vote today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I now find, given the latest performance, that there is obviously some other rules of procedure already in force, that it has already been amended. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible - speak without the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u113	Please, the microphone!
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u114	Indeed, it would be - in the next speech, you have advocated more political cultures, as well as legal cultures, to adhere to the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u115	Yes, Mr. Jerovšek, if I may say so.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u116	The two groups of Members are out of line when they are identified as parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u117	But that's why they didn't insist that we have more time at our disposal than a Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u118	Well, secondly, since it is always mentioned that someone is an SDS lawyer, in this regard Mr Anderlich, who is not here at the moment, would like to say this: it is obvious that the President, Mr Kučan, had already drawn up a future coalition, because exactly as he had announced in the interviews at the time, it was. And from this I can now argue back then that liberal democracy was significantly less in keeping with the current coalition treaties, that it did not support Mr Bisak. That's what I have to say for the benefit of a fellow member of the People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u119	This exhausts the list of applicants. I'm asking if anyone else wants a word, and I ignored it. [[No, no, ……]] I ask Mr Lovtijar-Bebler whether he would like a word, given that fellow Member Peterle has called her with a question, to answer him and perhaps to comment on the debate. You want a word? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u120	Thank you, for your word. Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, respected by both representatives of the Office of the President of the Republic. Nice greeting, though we've been sitting together for a while. Look. One of the most powerful readings I have heard here today - if I start to answer some of them first - is that some Members and Members or Members of Parliament do not trust and believe that I could be impartial in my work if I receive your support for the Ombudsman. Especially because I belong to a certain political option and it is understandable that if I receive your mandate, I will be politically biased. I have decided to freeze, as it is called, or postpone membership in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, as long as I obtain this mandate. This is certainly a firm promise and a firm intention. Then another observation, which is not valid if I applied to be a candidate for the Ombudsman after the deadline in which the President of the Republic called on all potential candidates and initiators to sign up for this invitation, I must say that I did not apply myself. I have been reported by a large number of signatories to the initiative; in the explanatory statement and in the material transmitted to the National Assembly by the President of the Republic or his office, it is clear who these initiators and the signatories to this proposal were. Another thing that I think is worth mentioning here is that they came forward with this application by those initiators who proposed me for this function back in 1994. It is said that they have not forgotten the position they had with me at the time as a possible future guardian of human rights and that they have now renewed this belief. There were, of course, some indications about my work in the previous term of office of the National Assembly. Of course, I am aware that some people have not always appreciated my work and, of course, my views, some, no. But I would hope that it would be possible to acknowledge, in some way, the fact that, when we were representatives of individual parliamentary parties in the National Assembly in the previous term, that it was normal for us to have represented individual Members also on the basis of the views that we, as members of individual parliamentary parties, of course, represented and defended. It is normal for a four-year mandate to have disagreements at some point, since, after all, democracy is also that different opinions and, of course, different political opinions are being broken in these mechanisms and procedures. But I can say that I have never been ideologically burdened, as I have heard here a few times before, I was not ideologically burdened even at the time when it was somehow universally accepted, and not at those places that I have occupied professionally, where it would in some way be considered to be just reasonable in those times. Let me stress that I started my career as a journalist and, of course, it was very unusual that as a journalist in a central TV house in Slovenia I was not a member of the union of communists and not later on when I worked in the professional service of the socialist association of the working people, as was said at the time. But more than that, it seems important to me that I have always, whenever I have appeared in such a role or in a place where I have been able to influence the rise in standards for the protection and consolidation of human rights and fundamental freedoms, that I have always taken a very firm stand for these postulates, which are my postulates, no matter which political option I have ever belonged to or may ever belong to. I mean it very seriously. Now, of course, there have also been some indications on the basis of how I acted in relation to the Constitutional Court decision on the referendum on the electoral system. Let me say that I was then one of the 45 members of the then State Assembly, who decided that the Constitutional Court, nothing more than this, should be asked whether another extraordinary remedy could be allowed. For if not another, you all know well that the legal profession has shared a different opinion concerning that decision of the Constitutional Court, and, last but not least, we have been taught by the Venice Commission how it is. I knew that today someone would answer to the account of one of my then debates in relation to, so I said then, creative explanations of law. I've prepared a broader text, but I don't think it's necessary for you to read it here. But there's only one thing I'd like to say. Both by German legal theory and by English, American and others, the creative application of the law and the creative reasoning of the right professional concept, which means that when a legal standard is incomplete, it is inaccuracies, of course, that judges must use some argument, which is also accepted and acceptable in legal theory. And I also wanted to mention a very resounding and very professional book by Professor Dr. Marjan Pavčnik entitled Argumentation in Law, where all this and all these possible legal theories are addressed. And this book was also regarded as very successful and good, including in its translations and publications in Vienna and New York. However, I am prepared for this text, which I have dedicated to the wider auditorium today, but I do not think it is necessary to do so - but I am prepared for this text, if anyone wants to read it, to deliver it to him. Mr. Honourable Member, Dr. Bernick, said something strong or bitter at the expense of the Human Rights Council, the so-called Bavcon Council. You'll think it was established under the Judgment Directive anyway. I'll tell you what. If he was, I certainly didn't know about it. But the fact is, I was among the initiators for the establishment of this world, the fact that I was among the founders or co-founders of this world, the fact that I was a member of this world, the fact is, for two years, I worked as a secretary of this world, and the fact is that I am still proud of the fact that I have worked in this world. There were hundreds of applications to this world at that time, in a slightly different time; I am also sure, some of the different roles that come to the Ombudsman today. Indeed, these were roles that all concerned a certain, say, easy thing about human rights and fundamental freedoms, including a black period in our history. The initiators who had been punished in the so-called Nadet trial were coming, and the initiators who had been convicted in the so-called Dachov processes, especially those who had been convicted in Split, then could not be rehabilitated together with our citizens, because at the time they had no permanent residence in Slovenia and they were not subject to Slovenian jurisdiction; and other other roles that you believe were, of course, marked by the heavy, personal tragedies of the people who turned to this world. I have to say that at the time, I can argue, I had each of these writings in my hands and I've dealt with it. And that I have made the best possible contribution to correcting any of these injustices, as far as it was possible at that time. And that's how I intend to do it in the future, as long as I get your support. I think it is necessary to say here that in Slovenia we have made quite significant, significant progress in the field of human rights, but of course everything is not yet as it should be, but also in the function of the first democratically elected Parliament as a member of the Constitutional Commission and of the leader of the special working group, who has prepared the text of the chapter on human rights in our new, first-ever Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, even then I must say, I have worked hard and also helped to ensure that the Slovenian Constitution is a certainty, at least as regards the chapter on human rights, in exemplary more than exemplary constitutional arrangements in modern and democratic Europe. At that time, we also included in the text of the chapter on human rights the basic provisions of those international conventions that had only been adopted, which had not yet been ratified in Slovenia or could not have been ratified at all, because Slovenia had not been a member of the Council of Europe at the time, for, as today, it was not yet a member of the European Union, was not a member of the OSCE and other international institutions and a signatory to the international conventions on human rights. It has also been said that many, because of being politically very narrowly defined, would not and would not want if I were the Ombudsman, to seek help or support from me. My experience speaks quite the opposite. Even as a member of the National Assembly in my office, which I had in Jessenica, where I was the only Member of Parliament at the time, I received people who addressed me in particular because they said, "We know that you are a lawyer, we do not know how to help, we hope that you will help us." I never asked anyone: where does it come from, who does it represent, who does it represent, whose political guilt it is, but I've always tried to help. And that's what people, the ones I helped, know. But many times it happened that they said to me, "The news, but I love another client, also from the right option," and I said, "nothing, thank God, you gave me so much more credit that you came to me because you trusted me." And that's what I'm thinking of doing in the future. I hope that you will give me your support; even if you don't give it to me, wherever I can work, I will work for the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, especially because I grew up in the family I am in; something Mr Partljič said about this. Now, one more thing. It has been repeatedly mentioned that the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia has not supported Mr Bizjak as a candidate for the Ombudsman. Here I would like to say another new dimension that was not exposed today, but Mr Janez Podobnik recalls well, because he was then the president of the National Assembly, that we had a session of the Association Parliamentary Committee at the same time, because we were then hosting MEPs, members of this Association Parliamentary Committee, and that at that time there was somehow some brief contact in the information on when this vote on Mr Bizak's candidate was taking place and that, as a result, most of the members of the Association Parliamentary Committee did not come to the vote in favour of Mr Bizak as a candidate for the Ombudsman. I think I've exhausted your patience with this, and I thank you very much for your attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Mrs. Darja Lavtijar-Bebler, for your explanations and your views. I'm asking, does anyone else want to discuss it? I find that I am not, and I am closing the debate and moving on to Please, colleague Anderlich. [[...]] Procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u122	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u123	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u124	On behalf of the parliamentary group, I propose a 45-minute recess, 45 minutes. In theory, we could also discuss other points in order to consult on this vote. But I think it's best that it's a break.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u125	Okay. I'm taking a vacation until 5:30, and then the meeting will continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u126	Colleagues who are not yet in the hall, I invite them to join us because we will continue the meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like your attention. Does Comrade Anderlich want a word because he asked for a break? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u127	In the Group of Members, we have consulted and found that there are all conditions for us to decide on the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u128	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. I put to the vote a motion for a decree on the election of the Ombudsman, which reads: "Besides Dara Lavtijar-Bebler as the Ombudsman for a period of six years." I am opening a debate on the proposed decision. Anybody want a word? Please, buddy Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u129	On behalf of the LDS Group of Members, I would like to point out that we will support the candidate proposed in the procedure by Mr Milan Kučan, President of the State. At the same time, we call on other Members of Parliament and Members who have been monitoring her parliamentary and other work for many years to support us in this regard. It is a function that remains, in fact, the last reserve or last hope for people exercising their individual or collective rights. It is therefore important that, in the event that a two-thirds majority needs to be gathered, we provide a convincing majority, including the number of votes we contribute to its election, give the necessary importance and weight to the role of the ombudsman in our society and thus facilitate the work of the ombudsman institution, together with Darja Lavtijar-Bebler recommended for the vote, and with all the deputies and teams that have been established and prepared in the past years, in order for this institution to play the role it plays in our public. As it is said, on behalf of the LDS Group of Members, we will support Darjo Lavtizar-Bebler and also call on other Members to follow us in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Please, Mrs. Orzmova.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u131	I would also like to explain my voice and call on other colleagues and colleagues to vote for the ombudswoman this time, and I hope that Mrs Darja Lavtijar-Belber will also be able to make a great contribution to the first woman in Slovenia, who, in my opinion, can also contribute in this sense as a woman, because it is known that women have a great deal of understanding, especially for human rights and, of course, also in this sense, I think that I can express the desire and hope of women in Slovenia that it will be Darja Lovtijar-Bebler. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u132	Okay. Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Possonec wanted a word. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Mrs. Maria, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I'd like to explain my voice, too. On behalf of Hungarian nationality, I will vote peacefully for Mr Beblerova, and I am confident that she will also be able to defend national rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? I guess not. Dear colleagues and colleagues, before the vote, I would like to point out that, in accordance with Article 12 of the Law on the Ombudsman, a candidate for the Ombudsman will be elected if she votes for 2/3 of all members of the National Assembly, that is, 60 Members and Members or more. I am putting to the vote the proposed decree, and in particular I must say that given that some colleagues do not have voting cards and that voting is important because the quorum is very high, I ask that they raise their hand very strongly so that there will be no misunderstandings regarding the will of the national assembly in this important choice. 81 Members and Members present. We're voting on the proposal. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that the proposed candidate for the Ombudsman has not been elected. Therefore, the candidate procedure and the voting procedure are repeated on the basis of a new proposal for candidates. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. On behalf of the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of the Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. By letter dated 12 December 2000, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Milan Kučan, proposed to the National Assembly that Prof. Dr. Cyril Ribičič be elected as a judge of the Constitutional Court. Does the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic wish to further explain the proposal? [[He doesn't want to.]] The proposal was addressed by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission, which reported in writing to the assembly. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[Yeah.]] Please, you have the floor, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The President of the Republic of Slovenia shall, pursuant to the first and second paragraphs of Article 163 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 9, 12 and 13 of the Constitutional Court Act, on 12 December of that year. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u136	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u137	invited the National Assembly to elect a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. [[...]] The proposal was forwarded to the Commission of the National Assembly for Elections and Administrative Affairs, which discussed and decided at its 2nd extraordinary meeting on 15 December of this year. The Constitutional Court Act in Article 9 provides that a national of the Republic of Slovenia who is a legal expert and is at least 40 years of age may be elected as a judge of the Constitutional Court. On 30 May 2000, the President of the Republic, in a motion for the election of a Constitutional Court Judge, states that on 30 May 2000, he received a notice from the President of the Constitutional Court that the judge, Dr Miroslavi Gè-Korošec, was to leave office prematurely, requiring that he be dismissed as early as 30 September 2000. In accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Constitutional Court Act, he issued an appeal in the Official Journal of 2 June 2000 to collect proposals for possible candidates for the vacant seat of a Constitutional Court Judge. The call stipulated that proposals for possible candidates should be submitted within 30 days of publication. Within this time limit, only one candidate applied for an invitation, at the consultation of the leaders of the parliamentary groups and members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities on 18 July 2000, found that the proposed candidate did not have sufficient support to enable him to be elected to the national assembly. On this basis and on the basis of the discussions he had conducted with the type of personality that would otherwise be taken into account as potential candidates for a Constitutional Court judge, but were not prepared to accept the nominations, he decided to use the law to propose someone who had not applied for the call published or had been proposed. He then issued a re-call to collect proposals for possible candidates and, on the basis of discussions with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, as well as with some possible candidates from the types of Supreme Court judges and the professor of the Faculty of Law in Maribor and Ljubljana, who did not want to accept the nominations, on the basis of the expert references of both proposed candidates and consultations with the legal experts and leaders of the parliamentary groups, decided to propose to the National Assembly that Professor Cyril Ribič, born on 30 June 1947, be elected as a judge of the Constitutional Court at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana. The proposed candidate shall meet certain conditions by law. The panel discussion on elections, appointments and administrative matters expressed the view that this time the applicant changed the criteria for proposing possible candidates. Notwithstanding the recognition of the expert references of the proposed candidate, this time it is a matter of enforcing a political criterion, as he proposed a candidate who, through his active political action so far, does not ensure that the constitutional judge's function is impartial. The representative explained that it was not a duality of criteria, but rather a proposal from the proposed candidates on the basis of professional references. The basic criterion on this and the cases so far is the expertise of the proposed candidate, which has been established by practice in the absence of the law, which is that the proposed candidates are university professors or Supreme Court judges. In drawing up the proposal, the proposer also took into account the views expressed by the leaders of the parliamentary groups on the possible support of members of the national assembly for the proposed nominations. On this basis, the Commission of the National Assembly decided to propose to the National Assembly that Professor Cyril Ribič be elected as the Constitutional Judge as the proposed candidate for the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? This is where I received my application from my colleague Spokonik. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u139	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished representative of the Office of the President of the Republic. Allow me to briefly present the position of the SLS+SKD Group of Members, the Slovenian People's Party, on the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a judge of the Constitutional Court. The position I am presenting is exactly the same as I have already presented in the discussion with the President of the Republic, Mr Kučan, as well as the same or similar arguments as that discussed by Mr Rokavec at the meeting of the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. I would like to briefly justify the reasons why our parliamentary group of the President of the Republic of Slovenia's proposal to elect a Constitutional Court Judge, Professor Cyril Ribičič, will not support this. First of all, our decision has nothing to do with Dr. Cyril Ribičič's personality, nor does it relate to his professional references. Here I also add my personal experience in eight-year cooperation with my colleague Dr. Ribičič [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u140	In 14 minutes, we will conclude or abort the session for today; by then, I ask the speaker for his attention. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't even mind the small murmuring, because it's such a small hall that it's almost impossible in total silence to monitor the debate, but thank you very much for the warning. So, in my eight-year cooperation with my former fellow Member, Dr. Ribičič, I can say that he was a very correct fellow Member. It is understandable, however, that it is within the scope of parliamentary work and the function of a Member, and perhaps also the management of the working bodies he has carried out, that, of course, as a Member, you are acting as a Member, as you command the situation, and of course you are defining yourself. That is to say, our position in no way goes "from the staff", Dr. Cyril Ribičič. In our view, this is an example in which we are now an opportunity for a legitimate question, which is also a question in the professional public in Slovenia and is a constant question in European countries as well as others; this is a legitimate question which could be defined in the following sentence: "In addition to legal, professional and moral references, it is very important that the Constitutional Court or its members also express a worldwide opinion or political balance." This is not a Slovenian imagination; I witnessed a quality and wide-ranging debate of eminent Slovenian legal experts and constitutional experts last night, and one of them - and this was not a mag. Guilt - who also spoke about this issue - spoke about this issue yesterday. This is a question that is now in Germany and also in other countries. It is therefore a matter of trust or, if you wish, credibility enjoyed by such an important state body as the Constitutional Court. The second question that comes to us here is - and this is in fact also a question for the National Assembly, and perhaps also for the President of the State - why is there so little interest when the President of the State signs a deadline under the law for experts to apply for the post of Constitutional Judge. Last call - one candidate, last call - two candidates. This issue, in my view, calls for a thorough consideration. And now the third argument, the third reason - and I reiterate that in no way do we want to stigmatise the political work of Dr. Cyril Ribičič in anything. However, we raise the question: is active political work - here I mention the ten-year work of our former colleague Dr. Ribičič - and last but not least the conduct of a political party - which is nothing wrong and is the legitimate option of every citizen - what does it mean if such a candidate with professional references gets through a procedure as defined in the law the possibility of becoming a constitutional judge, in what way such a decision could affect the issue of the impartiality of the function of a constitutional judge. This is particularly true - this expression has also been recorded in the Commission's report as an opinion, a colleague, the President of the Pucko Commission has stated this - and this issue of impartiality as a fundamental issue is particularly topical if the Constitutional Court finds itself ahead of the task of deciding on sensitive political or visual issues. The National Assembly, on the basis of a proposal by the President of the Republic, is for the first time in a state of independence before deciding to decide and that it needs 46 or more votes to the policy - and to be a politician is something completely legitimate and normal in our country - a policy to enter the area of constitutional judgment. And here I make the last distinction, the policy that enters the area of constitutional judgment, and not the Constitutional Judge, who can eventually, when he finishes his term, enters the area of political space, that is his personal decision. Those are our reasons. I believe that I presented them correctly on the basis of which - and all three of them I also mentioned to the President of the State when I was at his meeting - on the basis of which our parliamentary group, in the framework of the vote, will not give support to the candidate for a judge of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u142	Thank you very much for your presentation, colleague Podobnik. Kolega Drobnič will speak on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members. You have the floor. After him on behalf of the Youth Party, Mr Štemberger, if Comrade Drobnic is to finish his performance six hours ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. On behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group, allow me to give an opinion on Prof. Dr. Ribičič's candidacy as a member of the Constitutional Court. In fact, I'd just keep going where my predecessor ended up. That this candidacy is the most markedly political, which we have probably had in Slovenia so far, since independence. This should, of course, disturb us, especially if we read the Constitution thoroughly. We should avoid such decisions where political connotation is dominant. I have already stressed at the presentation of the committee that I do not challenge Dr. Ribičič's professional skills, knowledge of the constitutional substance. Oh, no. However, there is much more to the constitutional judge or something else you should not have, a backpack, an impressive one. And this is the political connotation that is evident. It can't be denied. This is the first reason, important and I think the essential reason why Nova Slovenija does not support Dr. Ribič as a member of the Constitutional Court. The President himself, Mr Kučan has repeatedly stressed that I have not had the opportunity to hear him directly in Parliament, but I have heard him about similar candidates for a constitutional judge, precisely as regards politics. And in that sense, I'm giving him the right one. Of course, I miss his insistence on sticking to this in all the following appointments and candidates. Totally. How's the worldview definition? Everyone has a worldwide definition of itself, even intimately, this cannot be denied and cannot be prevented, and this would also be unfair and irregular. But this is the second one, as I mentioned earlier, the additional political commitment that you will not only have to do what is right because of your inner inclination, but also because of your inner inclination, because of the customer's commitment, you will have to make decisions that will not be good for the citizens. Katji this institution of the Constitutional Court is the highest institution of the Constitution and the protection of human rights in our country and other countries. The European Court of Human Rights stresses to all judges that they are independent and impartial, without any shadow of a doubt. I quote, "no shadow of doubt." These are the key reasons why Nova Slovenija does not support Dr. Ribič's candidacy as constitutional judge of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you. I think I was short.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Tiny. Mr Štemberger has the floor to present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u145	Thank you for your word. Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia took the following facts and criteria into account when deciding to support the application, on the basis of the nominations received for a member of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia: The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that the Constitutional Judges are loved, said to be appointed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which means that the appointment of a Constitutional Judge is primarily of a political nature. The National Assembly appoints a Constitutional Judge by a simple majority, i.e. 46 Members, which means that the Constitution does not provide for the establishment of a political consensus on appointment for this function. Therefore, we consider it entirely irrelevant to speak of constitutional judges, both in the past and today, being, or should be, called as a-political or non-party candidates. The fact that the age limit is 40 years which must be fulfilled means that most, if not all experts who comply with the conditions on this pay, cannot claim to be completely passive in the political field. We therefore believe that the appointment of a Constitutional Judge will be primarily of a political nature, in so far as the constitution and legislation provide for such a appointment procedure in the future. However, the criteria used to determine the competence and suitability of candidates to perform this function are much clearer and more precise than those mentioned above. On these criteria, according to our party, both candidates are eligible. The above-mentioned facts and criteria for Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party, given that we have not yet been able to propose our candidate, meant that we have unanimously supported the candidacy of both of them, since we have mainly followed the expertise of the candidates and the existing system of appointments and practice in the past, which clearly shows that most of the former constitutional judges have had and still have roots in certain political options. It is true, however, that these roots are much more transparent with the proposed candidate, Mr Ciril Ribičič, than with some former constitutional judges. With President Kučan proposing the appointment of Mr Ribič, which he has by the Constitution, he also assumed responsibility for the so-called political suitability of the candidate to serve as a constitutional judge, from which we are firmly distanced in the Party of Young Slovenia, because we and we will support Mr Ribič in particular because of his expertise. At the same time, in our party, we point out that the National Assembly should consider a new way of appointing constitutional judges, which will ensure at least a politically balanced appointment of constitutional judges, if not fully-arranged experts, the guardians of the constitutional order in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Any other parliamentary group would like to present their position? Please, Mr Jerovšek, the Group of the Social Democratic Party. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we cannot support the proposal of the President of the Republic to elect Dr Cyril Ribič as a judge of the Constitutional Court, because this is a party-specificly exposed personality over 40 years, of course with all due respect for the candidate's professional references. The proposal by the President of the Republic is an unpleasant surprise because it means ignoring some of the standards generally recognised in countries of actual parliamentary democracy in the elections of constitutional judges. We do not know the case in Europe that a member of the Constitutional Court would be proposed or elected president of a political party. It is even less likely that an authorised candidate for the function of Constitutional Judge would propose his own party political heir or successor. In Europe, it is considered that those who have decided to lead a political party do not run for an eminent superscientific function, with the exception of the position of President of the Republic. This rotation in functions was characteristic of non-democratic, mono-party systems. It surprises us that the President of the State has also broken the standards that he has advocated in the previous elections of the Constitutional Judges himself. In view of the fact that it is not appropriate to run directly for the post of Judge of the Constitutional Court by acting as Member or Political Officer. At the time, they were among the candidates of the Magi. Mozetič and Dr. Fisherman. Mag. The Mozetik therefore withdrew from the Member's policy and function in order to meet the conditions of the next call, but he was clearly played out on the basis of the current proposal. Dr Ribičič was a member of the National Assembly on 26 September at the time of the deadline for proposals and the adoption of the candidacy. We also believe in the Socialist Party Group that it is normal for the composition of the Constitutional Court to mirror the structure of society in terms of values. The proposed candidacy, however, goes in the direction of the future fully unbalanced composition of the Constitutional Court. And the future complete hegemony of a political definition. In doing so, there can be no justification for such a composition of the Constitutional Court, not for party reasons, nor for any plans by the President of the State regarding the work of the Constitutional Court. As a politician, Dr. Ribič's candidate acted until the term of office of Member expired and was extremely politicalally engaged. The candidate has also repeatedly identified himself against respect for the finality of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, although he likes to point out that he is a professor of constitutional law. He also sometimes challenged the outcome, the narrow outcome of the Constitutional Court's vote, and this week we have a case where the US Supreme Court, as a constitutional court, issued a well-known decision and no congressman doubted the final outcome of the Constitutional Court. How such action and ignoring the decisions of the Constitutional Court by a legally informed candidate, as Dr. Ribičič has done, affect the reputations and weight of the Constitutional Court and the dignity of the Constitutional Court, we can imagine. The reputation of the Constitutional Court would certainly be affected, so in the Socialist Party's parliamentary group we expect the National Assembly to be committed to maintaining the standards that have been in force so far, it is said, to respect the principles of natural law in the face of the necessary political and party impartiality and the non-relationship of candidates and members of the Constitutional Court. We hope that common sense will prevail and that we will make the right decision in this national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u148	Thank you very much, colleague Jerovšek. In accordance with the agreement of the College that the National Assembly will meet between 2 a.m. and 10 a.m. and 18 p.m., I am adjourning the debate, but I see that colleague Potrce has a procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u149	Yes, Mr President, I would like to propose to my fellow Members that this agenda item be completed today. I believe that it can be very briefly defined, and then it is possible to vote in a relatively short period of time. I do not think it is necessary to repeat everything, but then we have important questions tomorrow that could be addressed at the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u150	There is no discussion and no explanation of vote on procedural issues. I am voting on a procedural proposal to continue working until the end of this agenda item. 71 Members and Members are present. Who is in favour of the motion for a decree in its entirety? [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 25.]] In this respect, the National Assembly decided to continue its work. I ask, does any other parliamentary group wish to present their views? Comrade Potts, United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Thank you for your support for the proposal to make a decision today on the candidate for the President of the Republic for a Constitutional Judge. We support Dr Ciril Ribič's candidacy in the parliamentary group. Our belief is that Dr. Cyril Ribičič, through his professional knowledge and work with students, has demonstrated the willingness and ability to use and consistently enforce the constitutional arrangements of the Republic of Slovenia. Ciril Ribičič was on the Constitutional Commission when the new Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia was adopted. Ciril Ribičič has been a Member of the National Assembly for ten years, and at the same time for the last four years and six years also the President of the Business Commission, desiring that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia should establish as much as possible a balanced relationship and an appropriate position of the coalition and the opposition in deciding on the most important issues within the competence of the National Assembly. Our conviction is that Dr. Cyril Ribičič has personality and moral qualities that will make him, on the basis of the oath he will make, if elected, primarily respect the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia and act for the well-being of Slovenia, and that there will be no personal link between him and any party policy. To talk about the fact that an individual, a respected legal expert, who is a condition for appointment as a constitutional judge, does not have his clear, political conviction, but makes no sense. So far, we have had constitutional judges who, of course, had such conviction. I am confident that the President of the Republic and that this National Assembly will also know and be able to provide, with the necessary additions to the constitutional court, the necessary political and plurality so as to ensure the credibility and confidence of the people in the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Comrade Potsch. Is there any other group that would like to present its views? I guess not. No one has applied for a time-limited debate. That's why I'm limiting the debates to five minutes. I'm asking, who wants a word? I'm guessing there's no one. I conclude the debate and move to a vote. In accordance with Article 87 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and Article 14 of the Constitutional Court Act, the assembly on the election of a candidate as a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia shall vote in secret. In accordance with Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret ballot shall be held by the President, with the assistance of the Secretary-General of the State Assembly and the four Members elected by the State Assembly on a proposal from the President. Representatives of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for members of the electoral commission. These are: Rudolf Moge from LDS, Branko Kelemin from the Social Democratic Party or from the parliamentary groups of these two parties, Aurelio Juri from the parliamentary group of the Joint List and Mr Peter Levič from the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia. I am also a member of this Commission as Chairman. Does anyone object to this proposal? I'm guessing there's no one. I propose to the vote for such a composition of the electoral commission. 61 Members and Members are present. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 97 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by giving its name and surname. The Member who will assist me in the exercise of the vote shall deliver a vote to each Member and the Secretary-General of the National Assembly shall indicate the name and surname of the Member in the list that the vote has been delivered to him. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 98 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, an unfulfilled ballot or a ballot, which is not completed in accordance with the instructions referred to above, shall be invalid. On the basis of Article 14 of the Constitutional Court Act, the candidate will be elected to the post of Constitutional Judge if the majority of all Members vote for him, i.e. 46 or more Members. We will vote in the Chamber. The Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table in front of the Bureau. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 117, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 6.25 p.m. and will last 20 minutes until 6.45 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members who will assist me in the vote to meet again in room 117. We will continue the session 15 minutes after the commission has done its work, which could be at 7 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u153	I ask colleagues and colleagues who are not in the hall to join us to continue the meeting. We're continuing our session. We're picking up the conundrum! Okay, that's gonna take a little longer. Please be so kind. I propose a re-voting. Okay. Again, please, colleagues and colleagues, let's find out what's going on! [[55 present.]] The assembly is adjourned and I publish the outcome of the vote. Minutes of the outcome of the vote on the election of Professor Cyril Ribič as Judge of the Constitutional Court: The vote was held on Tuesday, 19.12.2000 in the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. 79 ballots were distributed, 79 ballots were delivered. No votes valid, 79 votes valid. The "yes" was voted by 59 Members and 20 Members "against" were voted on. On the basis of this outcome of the vote, Professor Dr. Cyril Ribičič was elected Judge of the Constitutional Court. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] On behalf of the National Assembly of Prof. Dr. Cyril Ribičič, I congratulate him and ask him to swear before the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u154	I swear that I will judge by the Constitution and the law and by my conscience and by my every effort to achieve constitutionality and legality and to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms. [[Flattery.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-03.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the meeting by 10 a.m. tomorrow, as we continue our consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on public finances. Have a nice night. Goodbye.
