ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-21-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u1	Fellow Members and fellow Members! By witnessing the continuation of the 1st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Maximilian Lavrinc, Aurelio Juri, Roberto Battelli. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall! [[54 present - or 55, because one colleague forgot his card.]] The assembly is concluded and can proceed with its work. I ask the President of the National Assembly to discuss some issues.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-21-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u2	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen. At the meeting of the leaders of all the parliamentary groups, we have made a substantive agreement on the next statement I would like to read. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia expresses its deep solidarity with people and places recently affected by a tragic natural disaster. He expresses genuine compassion for the victims and their families. However, from this afternoon's reports, unfortunately, we have been able to understand that nature has not yet calmed down, not where it has been ruthless so far, not elsewhere in Slovenia. In accordance with its competences, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia wishes to assist, to the best of its ability, in the resolution of the consequences of disasters. At the meeting of the leaders of the parliamentary groups, we found that Members and Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of Friday's single decision, collected 900 000 tolars, symbolic financial assistance for directly affected families. At the same time, we decided that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia this year renounces the practice of sending Christmas and New Year's cards, except for the needs of the most urgent international protocol. The funds that would otherwise be intended for this opportunity will, in an appropriate manner, be devoted to the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to the reconstruction efforts in the affected area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-21-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Are there any comments on this statement? There's no point. Thank you very much. The assembly will first hold a third item on the agenda at today's meeting on the 1st Extraordinary Session - a proposal for decrees on the establishment of committees and commissions of the National Assembly; and then on the 4th item - elections and appointments. Before we proceed with our work, I would like to inform you that the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the new Slovenia have informed the President of the National Assembly that, as a result of the breach of the agreement reached by the leaders of the parliamentary groups on the proportional division of managerial functions in the working bodies of the National Assembly, which makes it impossible for the National Assembly to exercise at least some control over the functioning of the executive branch, they will not participate in the consideration of item 3 of the agenda. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Defence of the Proposals for Decisions on the Establishment of Boards and the Commission of the National Assembly. Under this item of the agenda, the assembly will consider the proposals for the establishment of committees and commissions submitted today by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission, which you are about to receive on the bench. We're moving on to consideration and decision-making. In this regard, I propose that we discuss all the motions for resolutions together and then vote on each proposal for a resolution separately. Anyone would like a word on this proposal? I guess not. Since no one wants a word, I ask the rapporteur of the Commission for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs to give a joint introductory explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-21-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! At its 1st meeting, the Commission adopted conclusions on the establishment of working bodies of the national assembly during this mandate period. In this respect, we have concluded that the State Assembly is to establish 18 working bodies during this term of office. We have also concluded what will be the numerical representation of individual parliamentary groups, including presidential and vice-presidential seats in all working bodies, together with the work of the decision, which suggests that those parliamentary groups which, due to a small number of members of the proposal, do not have as many members as working bodies, may require that they be represented in each working body with one member at a time. We have also adopted a framework key for the presidency of working bodies, namely, the LDS, the six presidents of working bodies, the SDS three, the combined list of social democrats of the three, the SLS + SKD two presidents of working bodies, the New Slovenia one to two, depending on the distribution of Vice-Presidents in the National Assembly, the DeSUS one chair, the SNS also, the Young Slovenia Party and the nationalities one chair. At the same time, Kviaz, a Member of the Parliamentary Groups, a colleague of Janez Podobnik, who, in my opinion, was very correct and with great effort, led to an agreement. Unfortunately, this agreement between the leaders of the parliamentary groups, after they met, I think eight times, did not exist, and thus the Commission for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs at the 1st Extraordinary Session, which was suspended several times, decided to propose to the National Assembly for today's meeting those working bodies which, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, should carry out appropriate presentations of candidates for ministers in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Commission therefore proposes to the National Assembly for elections, appointments and administrative matters to discuss and adopt all proposed decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-21-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u5	Thank you very much for the report. Does the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Please, Mr. Sasha Patch.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-21-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the Slovenian National Party, we propose that today the National Assembly should adopt a decision on the establishment of two more working bodies, as permanent working bodies, first of all, the Commission on Local Self-Government. We all know that at present there are three laws on the financing of municipalities, several variants of the law on local self-government and in the final stage also the issue of regionalisation or the law on the provinces in Slovenia. We are convinced that this is a strong enough area and a large one and that a regular working body should be earned. On the other hand, this is one of the foundations of the European Union's accession, which should be based on political parliamentary parties. And the other working body, which is supposed to be the permanent working body of the National Assembly, is the Disability Commission. Perhaps there is no need for arguments for the establishment of these two working bodies or of this other working body, but I suggest that today the National Assembly adopts this decision and that the KVIAZ Commission, by setting up them and appointing them, meet at the next regular meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-21-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u7	Thank you very much for your proposal. Anyone else from the parliamentary groups? Please, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-21-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u8	Given that this item of the agenda is also being considered without the presence of two parliamentary groups, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group, I find that, in fact, the reason for the absence is the same as it was for the first two points. In the absence of an agreement at this stage, I declare that liberal democracy is still of the view that it is right and that it will advocate that other working bodies, which we do not appoint today or some today, should take account of proportionate representation with the results achieved in the elections for all parliamentary groups, and in particular we believe that it is essential that these two groups, including, of course, others in the opposition, take the lead and also actively participate in the two working bodies that represent key oversight in the country, namely budget and other public finances, as well as supervision of security intelligence services. This is mainly because it would not give the wrong impression that liberal democracy, together with coalition parties, simply took something more than it belongs to it, and that in any way the representatives of the NSI or SDS would be deprived of this proportional distribution of seats in the working body leadership. At the proposal of these two opposition parties, we have taken into account today at KVIAZ their desire to cooperate in working bodies with members or members, so that their presence in working bodies will, and I hope, also play an active constructive role in the adoption of legislation in the National Assembly. If it seems now that this acceptance in the constituency may be undemocratic, then it must be said that all attempts to harmonise have not yet been completed. However, since it is necessary for the National Assembly to carry out all the necessary work in the coming days in order to be able, after the Prime Minister has submitted a list of candidates for ministers or ministers, to be able to make presentations before the national working bodies of the candidates, it is essential that we today carry out at least these constitutions of the working bodies that we have on the table today. I hope this won't be a bad trip for the work of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-21-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Is there any other group of Members who would like a word? [[No, no, ……]] Before giving the floor to Members and Members of Parliament, I would like to remind you that, taking into account the current practice of dealing with the motions of decisions, it is only possible to table amendments to those points of the decision which determine the powers and tasks of the individual working body. Any proposals for a change in the composition of the working body need to be coordinated in advance at a meeting of the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. Therefore, as such, they cannot be submitted directly to the National Assembly for consideration. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. There are no written reports. Anybody want to talk? Please, Mr. Janez Sponik.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-21-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u10	Mr. Vice President. I have two rulings before me: the first is the establishment of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health, Labour and Social Policy and the second for Culture, Education and Science. In the light of your last comment, in which the section of the decision could be amended, I would in fact simply ask a question; only at the decision of the Commission at the first meeting were the titles of the decision different. The first decree was called - the Committee of the National Assembly for Health, Labour, Social Policy and Disabled Persons. It is true that Section II, when it comes to the workaround of this Committee, speaks precisely of the problem of persons with disabilities, monitoring and examining their situation and proposes measures to improve it. All Members, and above all the leaders of the parliamentary groups, have received quite a few letters from the disabled organisations. I think it would be good to have a word in this committee's address, i.e., "and the disabled." It also applies to a second decree on culture, education and science. On KVIAZ we have set a different name for culture, education, youth, science and sport. I therefore suggest to my colleagues that we consider that the title of the decree would also be the one proposed at the first KVIAZ meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-21-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u11	Thank you very much. I see that Mr. Anderlich has come by, and I give him my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-21-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u12	On behalf of the parliamentary group, these two amendments, as I understand they would not need a break, are therefore supported and should then be corrected. Given that there has always been a talk on this definition of these two work areas, I think there is no reason not to accept it. I thank Mr Sponik for bringing this to his attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-21-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Anyone else please? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a vote on individual proposals for decisions. In a single decision, we will take into account the comment made on the title. So the vote on the motion for a decision is entirely complete. I shall put to the vote a motion for a decree on the composition and election of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Rules of Procedure. I ask Members and Members to report their presence. There are 57 Members and Members present. We are voting on the motion for a decree in its entirety. Please. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision is fully adopted. I shall put to the vote a motion for a decree on the composition and election of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the National Communities. There are 60 Members and Members present. Who is in favour of the motion for a decree in its entirety? [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision is fully adopted. We will vote on the proposal for a decision on the election of the President and of the four members of the Commission under the law on the incompatibilities of the exercise of a public function with a gainful activity. There are 60 Members and Members present. Who is in favour of the motion for a decree in its entirety? [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision is fully adopted. In order to discuss and decide, I propose a decision establishing a Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Foreign Policy. Mr. Pucko wants the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-21-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u14	Mr President, I am procedurally proposing that we decide on this decision at the end, because the New Slovenia Group is missing the name of one member.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-21-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u15	I think the proposal has been adopted. Thank you very much. We will go to the next proposal for a decree establishing a Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Finance and Monetary Policy. There are 56 Members and Members present. Let us take a full vote on the proposal for a decree. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision is fully adopted. We are discussing the proposal for a decree establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the Economy. There are 58 Members and Members present. Let us take a full vote on the proposal for a decree. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision is fully adopted. We are considering the proposal for a decree establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure and the Environment. There are 55 Members and Members present. Let us take a full vote on the proposal for a decree. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision is fully adopted. We are discussing the proposal for a decree establishing a Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Defence. There are 54 Members and Members present. Let us take a full vote on the proposal for a decree. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision is fully adopted. We are discussing the proposal for a decree establishing a Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for education, youth, science and sport. I ask Members and Members to report their presence. There are 53 Members and Members present. Let us take a full vote on the proposal for a decree. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision is fully adopted. Just one moment, please. We are discussing the proposal for a decree establishing a Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health, Labour and Social Policy and Disabled Persons. Members and Members, please report please? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-21-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u16	It's not on.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-21-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u17	Could you please repeat that?
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-21-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u18	I think that the decree is called on to set up a committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for health, work, family, disabled persons and social policy. I think the family's been released.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-21-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u19	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-21-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u20	It's not on.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-21-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Maybe someone's objecting? We are discussing the proposal for a decree establishing a committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for health, work, family and social policy and disabled persons. I ask Members and Members to report their presence. There are 55 Members and Members present. Let us take a full vote on the proposal for a decree. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision is fully adopted. We are considering the proposal for a decree establishing a committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for agriculture, forestry and nutrition. There are 58 Members and Members present. Who is in favour of the motion for a decree in its entirety? [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposed decision is fully adopted. We are discussing the proposal for a decree amending the decision on the election of the President and the members of the Council of State of Slovenia's mandate-immunity commission. 57 Members and Members are present. Who is in favour of the motion for a decree in its entirety? [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision is fully adopted. We return to the decree establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Foreign Policy. Does Mr. Pucko, President of Kviaza have any suggestions?
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-21-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u22	I propose that in point 3, the text should be amended to read: "The Foreign Policy Committee has a president, two vice-presidents and twenty members." The text in the fifth line of this point is also amended accordingly, namely the "New Slovenia Group of Members" and in point 4 the line is deleted where the dots and the "New Slovenia Group of Members" are deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-21-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u23	Thank you very much. There are 54 Members and Members present. Since there was no objection, I propose that we vote on the ruling in full, with these amendments of course. I ask that we vote on the ruling as a whole. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision is fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Mr. Pache has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-21-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u24	Procedurally. In the opening speech of the Slovenian National Party, I proposed that the National Assembly meet with a proposal to establish two new permanent working bodies. You must have accidentally missed the proposal of the Slovenian national party. Please put him to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-21-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u25	The proposal was not deliberately released. However, it is known that the issue must be raised first at KVIAZ. For this reason, I ask you to ask the relevant question or an appropriate proposal at the next KVIAZ meeting. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-21-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u26	The question was raised on the KVIAZ committee. I believe that the National Assembly on KVIAZ is, therefore, quite fitting if the National Assembly votes and shows its will whether it agrees with the establishment of two working bodies, that is, the Commission on Local Self-Government and the Commission on Disability.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-21-SDZ3-Izredna-01.ana.u27	We can put to the vote, but regardless of the vote, the matter will have to be dealt with at the first session of the KVIAZ. Please, we are voting on the proposal to consider, at the first meeting of the KVIAZ, the issue raised, the establishment of two new working bodies. There are 47 Members and Members present. Please let us vote. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 22.]] The proposal was not adopted. It was, sorry, sorry! The proposal has been adopted - I am correcting. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to four. PERIOD OF THE DAY - LOVE AND NAMES. To this point, I have invited a representative of the Council of Justice, and I welcome him, or he is not present, I do not see him. You have received the proposals of the Judicial Council and the proposals of the resolutions and reports of the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. Under this item of the agenda, the assembly will consider the proposals of the Judicial Council for the election of five candidates for judicial office. We are moving on to the consideration and conclusion of individual proposals. The Council of Justice submitted proposals to the National Assembly on the election of candidates and candidates for judicial office, at the courts of the four District Judges in the District Court in Ljubljana and the Judge for Offences in the Senate for Offences of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposals were addressed by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission and submitted reports and proposals for resolutions to the assembly. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[There's no such thing as a wish.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. [[It's not.]] Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss this anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a vote. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Ms Tatjana Turk-Pilič to the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. I ask Members and Members to report their presence! There are 55 Members and Members present. Let's vote on the motion for a ruling. (The vote was 53.)(Nobody.) I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Barbara Pecklar to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. I ask Members and Members to report their presence. There are 54 Members and Members present. Let's vote on the motion for a ruling. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Ms Irena Čretnik to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. I ask Members and Members to report their presence. There are 53 Members and Members present. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Ms Maja Lajevac to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. There are 53 Members and Members present. Who's in favour of the motion for a ruling? [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Gregor Berden as Judge for Offences in the Senate for Offences of the Republic of Slovenia. 52 Members and Members are present. Who's in favour of the motion for a ruling? [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and at the same time conclude the 1st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You will be informed of the further part of the National Assembly in due time. Thank you very much.
