ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 2nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened on the basis of paragraphs 51 and 54 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that he is detained and cannot attend today's meeting with my colleague Maximilian Lavrinc; I have no other apology at this time. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. Before this, I ask that those who, for various circumstances, may not have a ballot card with you, by raising your hand, confirm your presence and by raising your hand later also tell whether you will support or not the proposal that will be put to the vote. Let's figure out the conundrum. 59 Members and two colleagues who raised their hand are present, 61 Members and Members; the assembly is concluded and may decide. I ask politely for peace in the hall so that the assembly may decide normally. I invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovska, and the candidates for ministers and ministers, whom I welcome very much! Before setting the agenda for this meeting, we will also hold a procedure for the hearing of the minutes of the 1st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. The log is available in the computer network. Does anyone require amendment or addition or any other comment on the minutes? I guess not. Since there are no comments to the minutes of the 1st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, we are moving on to a decision on the adoption of the minutes. Let's find out who's here! There are 71 Members and Members who have cards and two who will vote by raising their hands. Who's behind the record? [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the minutes of the 1st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly have been adopted. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 2nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda was received by reference to the two agenda items proposed on 30 November 2000: 1. the designation of a candidate who, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, acts as a Member instead of a Member who has taken office in the Government; and 2. Proposal by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of ministers. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We are moving on to proposals for the withdrawal of individual items from the agenda. We have not received any proposals so far. Comrade Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear National Assembly, distinguished Prime Minister, candidates for ministers! In the Social Democratic Party, it is noted that there are no business reasons for us to carry out the 2nd item of the agenda, saying that we are holding elections on the proposal for a list of candidates for ministers in the government. In fact, Article 265 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly speaks very clearly, with a very clear view that Members vote on the appointment of ministers by voting on the list of candidates for ministers as a whole. We note that the list of ministers under the current law has not been fully submitted. As the Government Act in Article 8 stipulates that in addition to the President of the Government, the following ministers shall be composed: Minister of Finance, Home Affairs, Foreign Affairs, Justice, Defence, Work, Family and Social Affairs, Economic Relations and Development, Economic Activities, Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Small Economy and Tourism, Culture, Environment and Space, Transport and Relations, Education and Sport, Health, Science and Technology. So it's 16 resorts. In addition, ministers without a department may also be in the government. What we have on the table and have before us is a list that is presented under an invalid law. And I hope that this National Assembly has in it so much state conduct and so much seriousness that it will not, at the beginning of its mandate, violate all legal and commercial provisions and vote on an incomplete list, which is totally illegal. Such a government would be illegal, as the Government Act, even in its 9th Article, states that the number of ministries, their powers and the organisation of ministries and other administrative bodies lays down the law. And I read it to you from the law. Under the current law, the list of candidates has not been submitted, so I ask you, Mr President, to protect the integrity of this National Assembly and to immediately withdraw this point and give the Prime Minister additional time to submit a complete list of candidates for ministers, as provided for by law. Indeed, the Minister did not submit three ministers, as far as I know. The law is clear, hasn't changed lately, and there's been enough time, enough opportunities, and I think we need to act in accordance with the law. Therefore, once again, Mr President, I ask you to withdraw this point from your agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u3	Thank you very much, colleague Jerovšek. Mindful of my responsibilities and waiting for someone to raise this question, I have asked the secretariat for legislation and legal affairs for an opinion on whether, in view of the applicable law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and taking into account the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is possible to consider and decide on a proposal for the appointment of ministers if the list of candidates for ministers is incomplete and more than two thirds of the candidates for ministers are proposed. I got a written opinion, which, if I may, says that the National Assembly can decide on it. You can get written explanation on the bench if you want - covering two pages. But I would ask Mrs Tina Bitenc if she is so kind and briefly explains her position.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u4	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Very briefly. First of all, I would like to start by setting out Article 265 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on how to vote on the proposals tabled by the Prime Minister for Ministers. So they are decided by voting on the list as a whole. What should the list include? So, whether it should cover everything with the law of certain ministers, it does not in fact determine the government, nor the law on government, nor the rules of procedure. The first paragraph of Rule 262 of the Rules of Procedure provides that the Prime Minister shall, within fifteen days of his election, submit to the President of the National Assembly a proposal for the appointment of ministers, which shall be in writing and shall include a list of the candidates submitted, together with the particulars set out, and shall be reasoned. That is to say, exactly what the list should cover, the rules of procedure do not. The Government Act in the second paragraph of Article 11 also defines the obligation of the Prime Minister to propose to the National Assembly a proposal for the composition of the government. For us, the third paragraph of Article 11 is important, which stipulates that it is considered that the government takes office if there are more than two-thirds of ministers appointed, the ministers without a source do not take the lead. We believe that full regulation, i.e. the implementation of a constitutional regime whereby ministers are appointed in Slovenia on a proposal from the Prime Minister of the State Assembly, is to be understood, I will say, subject to the third paragraph of Article 11. Otherwise, we have a lot of issues unresolved and can be resolved, including legal consequences, taking into account the whole of the regulation in Article 11. Therefore, we believe that - to shorten - at all stages of the formation of the government, at the stage of the appointment of ministers, it is necessary that the proposal itself, as well as its further consideration and decision-making in the National Assembly, refer to a list on which more than two-thirds of ministers are present, without a reference. Of course, this number refers to ministers as defined in Article 8 of the Government Act. And if we can find that there are 13 ministers proposed, more than two-thirds of us represent 11 ministers. Therefore, from the point of view of such an interpretation of the law, constitutional arrangements, including the Government Act and the Rules of Procedure, we can conclude that it is therefore possible to discuss and decide on the list submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The Rules of Procedure now allow Members to clarify their views within five minutes at the latest. Comrade Jerovšek, do you insist on withdrawing? Please, which group would like to clarify the position on the withdrawal proposal? You will be given the floor if you wish to speak on behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Jerovšek. [[Yeah.]] Please. You have the floor. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am very surprised that the President of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, after hearing, among other things, yesterday's opinion of an eminent lawyer with a number of professional references, will present here in the National Assembly an opinion which in fact denies certain business decisions and relies solely on the third paragraph of Article 11 of the Government Act, which applies when two rounds of elections of ministers have already been held. Then this is allowed, which is explained here. The fact is that these articles of the Rules of Procedure are extremely clear and do not allow such matters to be dealt with in a legal and illogical way. In fact, it will not be the case that Article 265 sets out a way of voting, which is a whole list. The list fully represents what is enshrined in Article 8 of the Government Act and this list has 16 full candidates for ministers. If 16 candidates for ministers had been submitted and two-thirds had not been confirmed in the first round or obtained a majority, it would not have been a national assembly for, then the mandate holder would have submitted a re-list and a re-vote would be held. And even though the list falls in this case, what the President has now offered us as a legal opinion is possible. Here it is, I will read to you once again 266th article to see that this is exactly what it is: "If the list is not voted on, a new vote is taken on the appointment of ministers on the basis of a new list of candidates for ministers. The Prime Minister must submit a new list of candidates within 10 days of the first vote at the latest. If the new list of candidates is not voted on, the Prime Minister may submit that each candidate submitted from the list of candidates shall be voted on separately." This is the second paragraph of Article 266. It contains what the secretariat is referring to. However, as I said, this is implied in the event that two attempts have already been made to form a government. That is why it is clear here that there was no such thing here that the list of ministers was not fully submitted. I am also surprised that at the beginning of the National Assembly it is possible to violate the law in its entirety and with a view to achieving political objectives to undermine the rules of procedure and the law, which is extremely clear, and to act ignorant or to act as a business roller or bulldozer and to work fully in line with certain narrow political objectives. I don't know, then if we did that, it's basically the announcement of some state of emergency in this country, because this clearly shows that there will be no law in this country, no rules of procedure will be respected, and that the National Assembly is, in fact, completely without need here, because what has been agreed at some point in power will be carried out. I hope, Mr President, that you will use your credibility, your reputation, and I also expect the elected Prime Minister to see the mistake - I am not saying that at the time he presented the list of ministers, it was clear, but I expect that today it is crystal clear and that both such eminent political representatives must act in accordance with the law and the rules of this national assembly, which is our constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u7	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members, colleague Lois Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u8	Mr President, Members and Members, Mr Prime Minister and candidates for ministers! I am pleased and proud to be back in the company of Members and Members of the national assembly of this country. I would like to say that, as an opposition Member, I know precisely that we do not have enough votes to convince you to respect the laws in force in this country; but we have enough votes to warn you when we think you are passing the law, as in this case, that we tell you and the Slovenian public. I deeply regret the fact that the whole matter of the new coalition has already begun by playing the agreed rules of the game. The beginning that led to the obstruction at the very beginning, you know. There was twice a breach of agreement as to how, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, positions will be proportionally shared within the working bodies. What is happening today is the continuation of the same story. What the coalition has allowed and chosen is the beginning of the procedure in the third round. You've gone from behind because you think you'll get through so easily, and you have so much to conclude that the sun will never rise again. You have two thirds, you can make anything in this house. And we will insist that you respect the laws. And we propose that because we are a constructive opposition - so that we do not come to such an important action as setting up a government, to problems or shadows with respect for laws - we propose that the Prime Minister take advantage of the legal possibilities for those two departments temporarily to take over everything will be fine. So I don't know why you start in round three or stage three. We will insist that the work is lawful, the law and the rules of procedure are clear. The whole list has to be presented, so we understand it, so he also said on TV yesterday that he was a professional representative. Which we don't think is negligible. And I don't know why you're pushing us into trouble with step three, and you're pushing yourself into it, instead of the government being put into it. And we propose not to skip the procedure that will undoubtedly lead to procedural complications, as we know the operation of this house, and this is entirely in line with the rules of procedure. We therefore advise that you do what is right in this case and that you do not employ us in the third round and that you give us a full list or a complete list of candidates. On a procedural basis, I ask the President of the National Assembly, Mr Pahor, whether he has asked, given the knowledge of the laws, the President or the mandate holder to complete the list. I would like to hear this question or this answer. Then there's something else. Mr President, with all due respect, see, you said, if you want, you can get the secretariat's opinion on the legislation on the bench. This should be waiting for all of us. I would not like to propose a quarter of an hour's rest to read a relatively long opinion of this secretariat. I think this would be part of the normal and cultural beginning of our work. And I suggest that this, this opinion, in which it is possible, is said by the responsible person, should also be decided in the way the government proposes. So we do not want any shadow of doubt about the legality of this procedure, which will bring about the Slovenian government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Since my colleague Peterle is referring to my duties, let me explain the following. As President, I was obliged to follow the rules of procedure. Since there have been several different opinions, I have previously consulted experts on this and have been assured that such a reference is not disputed. As some of the discussions continued, I also formally asked the secretariat to give such an opinion. I have done so as President, so that I may be able to call this meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. At the hearings, as far as I know - if I'm wrong, correct me - no one has opened the question of this Rules of Procedure. That is why, of course, it was not possible for me to expect to give myself the self-initiative opinion that served my judgment. Now that this issue has been raised by my colleague Jerovšek, I have asked the services of the National Assembly, as said by my colleague Peterle, that the opinion which is written on both sides will also be immediately given to you on the bench. I ask the members of the group whether they would like to present their views. [[No, no, ……]] A motion for withdrawal? Would you like another word, Comrade Jerovšek?
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u10	It's not understandable. It's not on.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u11	Please, if you want the word, you have the option of using the speaker stage. You want a word? Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u12	It is obvious, then, that the arguments are so strong that, of course, the parliamentary groups do not want to go against the legality of this national assembly and are aware of this. I think, Mr President, you too are perfectly clear. In fact, in your opening speech, you mentioned that you would advocate a higher political culture. If we were to break the law and the rules of procedure at this time, this would mean that we have considered all the political culture that has already been established in the ten years of parliamentary democracy, and that you have immediately begun to act against what you have promised to this national assembly. That is why I think you have all the right, in the capacity of the President of Parliament, to suspend and hold urgent consultations so that we do not proceed with these violations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u13	Thank you very much. By the rules of procedure, we have thus exhausted the possibility for the Group of Members, or on their behalf, to explain their position on the proposal you have put forward - a motion for withdrawal. Once again, my colleague Jerovšek, in my decision to decide on this point today, I have also drawn attention to the position of the Legal Affairs Secretariat. You have a position in writing in front of you. I think all the conditions to the Prime Minister are met, do you want a word? [[...]] Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u14	Mr. President! Dear Members and Members! In this debate, which was now open, I would appeal primarily to common sense. In fact, we are trying to put the government after the elections, which have produced very clear results. People have said their will, a coalition has been formed, a elected mandate-holder and a mandate-holder wants or proposes a government. We agreed, and there was a consensus broader in the country, including in the government that has worked so far, even in the new opposition, if I may say, to try to rationalise the government's work and to reduce the number of sources. That's why we tabled a new law on government, and the National Assembly has also adopted it. This law brings together several ministries - three so far economic ministries into one joint ministry. We also join the School Ministry and the Ministry of Science. In doing so, one new ministry, the Ministry of Information Society, is being set up to follow the trends in the world, the challenges of modern technological development. This was adopted by the National Assembly and, unfortunately, the formal option that exists was used in the meantime, so that the group of at least 200 Members [[?]] blocking the implementation of the new law by introducing the referendum initiative. So we have to wait at least a month for this new law, which brings together the ministries that are rationalising, to enter into force. And what the Prime Minister should do now in this situation, when we are all for this new law to come into force, to unite the ministries - whether I should now propose three new ministers for a month now, three more ministers who will no longer be ministers as soon as the law which has already been passed and which is now blocked by this initiative for a month - is very likely not to succeed in carrying out the referendum on this issue; I have already said that I think this would be one of the most pointless referendums I know because I would like to block any more effective functioning of the government, the rationalisation of the government. Well, and so if we come from this likely assumption, in a bad month we will have the validity of the new law and the merger of these ministerial departments. It is logical, therefore, that, as President, as a proposal for a list of ministers, I have used the path at my disposal: to appoint at least two thirds of the ministers, to appoint one minister or candidate in these departments, and that, once the government has begun to act, if you confirm it, I shall authorize, in accordance with the law, that the Minister or Minister shall carry out business in the other two or in the three branches, that is, one minister in the other two economic departments, and the Minister of Education also in the Ministry of Science, until the date of entry into force of the new law on government. This is the most rational solution and, as we have heard before - and we have already checked - it is in accordance with the law, it is in accordance with the rules and thus allows us some normal start of this government, without such, perhaps really unnecessary curves, that we should appoint three more ministers within a month under the old government law. I would really appeal to all of us to try to gather together enough seriousness and responsibility to get this government to work. We have a lot of open problems ahead of us, and every waste of time now, of course, is damaging - to whom? - to all of us, our country, because we cannot, in the meantime, when the former government is practically closing down, the new government cannot begin when we cannot solve the most serious issues and problems ahead. So I think it is perfectly legitimate, as we have heard, to elect the government today in the manner I have proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u15	Thank you very much for your word, Prime Minister. We have thus concluded the possibility of a discussion. Everyone who had a chance took advantage of it. You want procedural? There is no debate because there is a discussion, there is no replica, because the debate is on the agenda item, so I ask that we proceed to the vote on your proposal, Mr Jerovšek, when we are present. Please, let's find out what's going on. 86 Members and Members are present. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 60.]] If anyone has made a mistake in this vote, it may have been my fault in this case. The "yes" was voted by the one who pressed the green button and the "against" by the one who pressed the red button. I'm sorry. Expansion. Does anyone have a proposal to expand the agenda? [[No, no, ……]] I note that we have not received any proposals for extending the agenda and that we can move on to a full vote on the draft agenda. I propose that we adopt the agenda for today's meeting, as you have received by reference. At the vote, I give the proposed agenda. Members and Members of Parliament, please be advised that we are present. Please! There are 83 Members and Members present. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against 18.]] In view of the outcome of the vote, I note that the assembly adopted the draft agenda for the 2nd extraordinary meeting. We're moving to point one. Please, procedurally? Please, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In particular, in order to avoid being present at such an important meeting in violation of the law and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I shall propose that the Rules of Procedure Commission meet after paragraph 1 before moving to paragraph 2 be informed of the opinion of the Secretariat for Law and also the relevant legal opinions and decide whether or not there are business options for the implementation of item 2 of the agenda. Indeed, it is necessary to state in explanation of this proposal that it is not so uniform that the state is now being saved at this point, as it is now, at this moment, that a decisive moment has occurred, even if it is not all by law, if it is not by law, that it is necessary to form a government. Mr Peterle has proposed a very rational proposal, which can be taken very quickly. So as a constructive opposition, we propose this. I believe that Mr President of the Government has some problems in this case, because he has also complained through the media that other centres of power in the country want to form a government and that it could happen that if he were looking for new names to obstruct part of the government. It's a real challenge for the Prime Minister. But he can take some of his own resources. It is also necessary to state in this explanation that this coalition, which today is a party to illegality, in solutions to the Rules of Procedure, in August or perhaps the first day of September has rejected the possibility that it would also give this coalition the opportunity to form a government today in accordance with the law and to even avoid "hearing". With an honorary exception, I must say here, Mr Anderlich, this coalition is complete, probably formed at the time, voted against a very rational, more rational proposal on government than you now offer, with 12 ministers, which would actually reduce costs. And even one article would change the constitution, there was enough time, but there was no political will. That's why crying here is now about endangering the foundations of the state, but I don't know what it is that [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] It's literally out of place. [[...]] At that time, the same coalition rejected the interests of the state, acted strictly politically, strictly recalculated, and did not want a rational government law to be passed before the elections, and to the extent that the irrational solutions that are present in this national assembly, as regards how the government stands, would be changed. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps you refused to do so at the time. Do not reject or reject the Rules of Procedure and the Government Act today, as this leads to illegality. I propose once again that, following the first item of the Rules of Procedure Commission, a rational solution be found. And I believe that, in the meantime, Mr Prime Minister will also consider, he is so pregmatistic and is so rational that he will lean on a legitimate solution and submit a list of candidates for the government in accordance with the law, take over some ministries of his own and will carry out additional "hearings" and all will be resolved relatively quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u17	Thank you very much, colleague Jerovšek. Article 334 of the Rules of Procedure states in the first paragraph - I quote: "If there is any doubt as to the content of a particular provision of the Rules of Procedure, the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure during the meeting of the Presidents." Mr Jerovšek raised the issue of a possible breach of the rules of procedure. On the basis of the clear position of the Secretariat, we have found that the Rules of Procedure are not violated and that the National Assembly today can decide on Point 2. In accordance with article 70, you performed and wanted a word, and I gave it to you. If you do not agree with my explanation, I will put my explanation to the vote and we will withdraw any shadow of doubt as to whether or not the National Assembly may or may not decide to do so. You want to talk about it? [[Yeah.]] Then please, because it is not possible to discuss here that the National Assembly, by voting, decides on my interpretation that, without violating the Rules of Procedure, by interpreting its determinations during the meeting from my position, we can continue the meeting of the National Assembly. We're picking up the presence! We are voting on whether, therefore, the National Assembly can proceed or not, in accordance with the interpretation I have given. Anyone who wishes to support this decision, please vote, also those who disagree. 81 Members and Members are present. Excuse me? Again? If you can start voting, they're warning here from work. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against 19.]] I find that the National Assembly can continue its work. My friend Peterle, do you have a procedure? Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u18	Mr President, I think we are still in the great shadow of legality, respect for legality. You have the right to interpret the Rules of Procedure, but you have no right to interpret the Government Act. And there is no article in this law on government that would allow a mandate-holder to offer a squandered government. It says he has to propose the appointment of ministers, not just some ministers. What applies to two thirds is valid only if the government is not confirmed; two thirds are considered procedurally and in accordance with the law since then. So tell me, Mr President or Mr President-in-Office, where the basis is for starting with a reduced one is an incomplete proposal for the composition of the government. The government can operate with two-thirds, but it cannot start with a reduced number of ministers. Please, let me get this straight. I propose a quarter of an hour's rest for those in charge of this house to take a closer look at this matter; it is not just the rules of procedure, it is a government law and it is a violation.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u19	My friend Peterle, I don't personally see any reason to take a break, unless it's suggested by one of the sent-off groups. Secondly, I believe that all business opportunities are for us to continue the debate. We have just decided whether or not to explain the Rules of Procedure during the meeting, and most of us have found that the Council of State on agenda 2 may decide. So I suggest we move on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DETERMINATION OF THE CHANDAT, CONSTRUCTED AT 14. He's a member of the law on missions to perform the function of a messenger instead of a messenger who took over the government's function. The Republic Election Commission forwarded to the assembly a finding on the acquisition of the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly. The findings were addressed by the Commission’s mandate-immunity committee, which informed the assembly in writing. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? Please, my friend Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u20	Your Honors are here! At 9 a.m. this morning, the Commission held a mandate-immunity commission and found or noted that the Member who took over the new post had become Prime Minister or, in the future, the Member who assumes the post of Minister for that time, could no longer serve as a Member for that period. Accordingly, and on the basis of the documents of the Republic Election Commission and the written statement of the candidate of the list with which it replaces it, the Commission has concluded that there are no reservations to the appointment of a new mandate, i.e. the mandate of the Member of Parliament to Mr Suklet. We propose that you take the proposed decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Anybody want a word? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a vote. On the basis of that and in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, I shall put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: "Until Member Janez Drnovšek, elected Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members, has been able to act as a Member, he shall act in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 14 of that Act as of today, Mr Borut Suklje, born. June 24, 1958, residing in Ižanska cesta 144, Ljubljana." Members and Members, please note their presence! 81 Members and Members are present. [[The vote was 74.]] [[Against four.]] I can invite Mr Shuklet's Member of Parliament to the Chamber. [[Let's hear it.]] I sincerely congratulate our new colleague, Mr Borut Shuklet, on our common behalf. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is on the proposal of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of ministers. I'm asking for a little more silence in the hall. Indeed, the Chamber is not suitable for such meetings, but with little patience it will not be difficult to conclude these agenda items as well. Article 262(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provides that the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall, within 15 days of his election, submit to the President of the National Assembly a proposal for the appointment of ministers. By letter of 23 November 2000, the Prime Minister, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, forwarded the following proposals for the appointment of ministers: Dr. Dimitri Rupla, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dr. Bohinc, Minister of the Interior, Dr. Anton Grizold, Minister of Defence, Mag. Mr Anton Ropa for Minister of Finance, Dr. Teo Petrin for Minister of Economic Affairs, Dr. Vlad Dimovski for Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mr. Jakob Preseknik for Minister of Transport and Communications, Mag. Franca Bootha, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mag. Mr Janez Kopač, Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Ivan Bizjak, Minister of Justice, Dr Lucio Čok, Minister of Education and Sport, Dr Dušan Kebra, Minister of Health and Mr Igor Bavčar, Minister of Education and Sport, responsible for European Affairs. On 26 November 2000, the Prime Minister added a list of candidates to the proposal that Mrs Andreja Richter be appointed Minister of Culture. You received the Prime Minister's proposal on 23 November this year and an additional proposal on 26 November this year. He wants the Prime Minister, Dr. Drnovšek's word. Please, Prime Minister Drnovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u22	Dear Members, Members of Parliament, Mr President! I have presented a list of ministers, with whom Mr President of the National Assembly has briefed you. Assembly of the government is always very demanding and nothing pleasant process. Sometimes more quality candidates are available in individual departments and it is necessary to choose who would be named among them, and others who are not selected are somewhat disappointed. I am sorry that all their names then appear in public This is never a mandate-holder, I have never referred these names to the public myself. I know they're uncomfortable if they didn't end up on the proposed list. In some cases, the mandate holder would want someone, but he cannot get his consent for such or other reasons. Under all these circumstances, I have tried to get to the best possible list of ministers or ministers, and this list is before you today. I am sure that this is a good list, that there are good candidates on it, that some of them have a lot of experience, already in government experience, others are coming to a new government, but they have a rich professional and different path to them. I am also sure that they will work successfully as ministers. We've already talked about a complication with the government law, where probably the old law applies for a month or so. I will, as I have announced, if you approve the selected ministerial team, for this transitional period, because I can do this for a period of up to three months, the mandate of Dr Teo Petrin to carry out, in addition to the Ministry of Economic Activities, the duties of the Minister for International Economic Relations and Development and of the Minister for Small Economy and Small Economy and Tourism. And Dr. Lucia Chok, as Minister of Education and Sport, also covers the Ministry of Science. Until then, we expect this to happen in a bad month's time when these resources will join together in a common area: a resource for the economy and a resource for education and science. I expect from the candidates, as probably our entire public, all our citizens, not only to be qualitative, but also to do their job honestly. I expect that they will listen to the guidelines that I have already spoken about in my presentation, as a candidate for the Prime Minister, to try to make the country not only effective, but also as kind as possible to people, that we will jointly look for ways to simplify the various procedures, administrative complications, how to enable citizens to do more quickly and more easily all their relations, all their obligations or rights in relation to the country, in one form or another, so that we will all become more effective together in carrying out our activities, both economic and all others, at the same time as being more friendly, open, more friendly and even more open-minded. I would like candidates, candidates, future ministers to listen as much as possible to all citizens, including non-governmental organisations, so that you will not be imprisoned in public authorities, in the ministries, to think as citizens, not only as officials or ministers, and to put them in the shoes of all citizens who come in contact with this country in one way or another. It's our common country. Not long since we won it. Let us try to make it as effective as possible, as friendly as possible, and let us also try to improve everything that is not yet the best and optimal. I think that behind us is the period of the establishment of the country, including transitions, and that we can now do some things better, more qualitatively, that some of the details that we may have overlooked in these years should be put in place and that Slovenia really becomes a modern, modern country, comparable to those we wanted to compare with even when we decided on our independence. Dear Messengers and Members! In my proposal, I also put forward a proposal for three candidates for the ministerial position. That's more than ever. I would like to see more candidates in the government, but this is already a step forward. One of the experiences I have gained in doing so is that we may still be conscious of the fact that when we decide who to choose or otherwise say who is better, we may, in the same choice, subconsciously give priority to a male candidate. Sometimes a little effort has to be made, and I too have had to make an effort in this case, and it is surprising that I have had the most difficulty in proposing candidates, women for ministers. It was much easier for all male candidates. So I hope that this will be a valuable experience for all of you and that we will take this as a step in the right direction. I am sure that this move will already improve the functioning of the government and that we may be better able to represent the real interests of all Slovenians, both Slovenes and Slovenians, citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. In accordance with Article 263 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the candidates presented themselves to the home labourers and responded to questions raised by committee members. It follows from the opinions of the home work bodies that the presentations of all candidates were appropriate [[opinions of the committees received]] . I'm asking the rapporteurs, do they want a word? I guess not. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? They have been registered and will be given the opportunity to speak in line, first of all Dr. Andrej Bajuk, New Slovenia's Group of Members. I ask the leaders of the parliamentary groups or representatives to communicate their views from the speaker stage and all other Members and Members from behind the bench. Dr. Andrej Bajuk, you have the floor; he will be given the word of Dr. Miha Brac.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u24	Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members, distinguished Prime Minister Dr Janez Drnovšek, distinguished candidates and candidates for ministers, respected citizens of the Republic of Slovenia! Allow me to present the opinion of the New Slovenia Group to the esteemed assembly and to all who accompany today's debate by means of public information. As soon as the new government is elected, New Slovenia will take on a new role in the context of the Slovenian Coalition, which will also be its responsibility. It will take over the role of the democratic parliamentary opposition. I would like to stress the extremely important importance of this role for a democratic and legal country for which the actual division of power is essential. The opposition is a constitutional part of parliamentary democracy. There's no democracy. The New Slovenia Group will be responsible for the task of the opposition in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Our Members will, through their initiatives and arguments, enable the important work of the Slovenian public to be effectively present in influencing decision-making on matters of general social interest. We will consistently work for the thorough exercise of the supervisory function exercised by the State Assembly over the work of the Government. In this sense, we expect the opposition to be able to work effectively in the staff of this assembly. At the same time, I would like to stress that we will support all those projects that are of national importance to the country, such as the creation of Europe on domestic soil and the entry into the European Union, consistent respect for and enforcement of the principle of equality of citizens before the law, in particular in the tax field. Equal opportunities are also primarily in the areas of education and education, the correction of injustices and the like. I would like to draw attention to some other important facts. The parliamentary opposition is small, which means that the ruling coalition will have a much greater responsibility for the democratic development of Slovenia. In this regard, I would also like to point out that our deep belief is that the state has a special responsibility to provide conditions for the creation of a media plural space. Let me conclude with the hope that the ruling coalition will also understand the crucial importance of the constructive opposition to the normal functioning of the Slovenian society and the country and that, despite this fact, it will not yield to the temptation to always overcome only the argument of power over the power of the arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u25	Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]] I give the floor to my colleague, Dr Mih Brejc, who will speak on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members and will be given the floor of Mr Marko Diaci for the Youth Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome! Well, today we are sitting in the hall of the former Central Committee of the Communist Union, and there have been many things happening in the past. There must have been a violation of human rights, a violation of the Constitution and laws, and I'm afraid that the ruling coalition has touched something small when you so vehemently trampled on the rules of procedure today. This is not a good prospect for the future, it is not a good prospect for the next period and, of course, puts you all in a strange light. But we don't have any choice but to find out that we're telling you, we leave the rest to your conscience. Last but not least, we have drafted a government law in the Bajuk government this summer, and we have also put it into action, and you have not accepted it before. Think of how much trouble you would have saved yourself if you had accepted it. But since we suggested this, the proposal was already bad in advance and, of course, today you have this chaos, which, of course, does not honor you. Similarly, the creation of the working bodies of the National Assembly has taken place. At the 1st session of Kviaz, we were informed of the ruling coalition's decision to be less working bodies to be smaller. It was said that the electoral result would measure the employment of these bodies, not only by the number of members, but also by the number of presidents of working bodies and vice-presidents. It also turned out in the debate, I think I can say that this was a majority opinion that the party having a minister should not have a president of the working body in the same field. It is said that the Minister, I do not know, for agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture should not have a public party, but someone else, the Ministry of International Relations, not the LDS, but the working body of someone else, etc. It was also said that we would coordinate our interests. In advance, we reported what we wanted. Everyone's a little bit more than they expected. It turned out that there were no special objections at the first meeting. You could almost say that we were somehow quite pleased with what the coalition offered. But on the same day, you turned the board around and it started moving from one working body to another working body. As a result, offers were becoming less serious and the opposition had to make the decision as it was. We have, as you know, decided not to take the lead in the National Assembly, but just membership. Well, at present, due to such a series of votes on labour bodies, as was the case with KVIAZ, we have the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly and the two Vice-Presidents of the Working Bodies in this National Assembly. However, we will also give up on this, except of course, if you respect the rules of the game that you have set for yourself. If I say a few words about the uncriticism or lack of real self-image of Drnovsk's government candidates, or of the candidates we have listened to in these days. The key feature of Drnovšek's presentations and his former and future ministers is the complete absence of self-criticism. Presents in these days have given the impression that the situation in the country is alarming. You even said the necessary crisis management. As soon as possible, one of the candidates said that the position should be taken so that the Bajuk government would not do any more damage. So, after four months, the situation has changed so dramatically that it has to be done. To claim that we, the Bajuk government, have committed in four months what you are talking about, and to forget that you have ruled for eight years, that is indeed a low doing. Therefore, according to Mr Rope and similar and media support, the public is expected to feel that within four months we have caused a deficit in the pension register of around 27 billion, perhaps more. There will be no money for teachers' salaries - about 9 billion is missing, there will be not enough funds for children's allowances - 3 and a half billion so that there will not be enough funds for employment programmes - 2.8 billion, etc. That the future would be black, you said, because the external trade deficit had increased. If I heard correctly, you said five times. And in four months, I guess. But the documents, you know, which are available here in the National Assembly, in the government, even in public, show what was happening and when what was happening today was coming. I hope that this documentation clearly shows that the situation, the situation as it is today, is the fault of the team led by Dr Drnovšek in the past, or of the teams and, of course, that crisis situations have arisen in the past eight years or at least the consequences of these crisis situations, which some candidates have been talking about, but not in the last four months. Interestingly, the need to introduce crisis management is discussed by those who have caused such a situation. You've made so many mistakes in the past eight years and you've caused such a situation in the state treasury to agree with you, you're going to need a crisis management. But history, as well as practice at home and abroad, teaches us that companies that are failing never get out of the crisis those who have caused the collapse. Well, Slovenia is something special in this respect. Those who have caused such a situation are now preaching to us about what needs to be done, but they are not saying a word about their role, but they are trying to take full responsibility upon us who have been ruling for only four months. But what did you do when you were in power? Why haven't you done what you've been planning for the past eight years? Why did you even let this happen? At the candidates' presentations, we heard a lot of things, including a lot of vague promises. Some candidates have shown that they have little knowledge of the area they will run, some do not know the coalition treaty they have signed. And that's what they're saying. Well, some are rewarded for their "breathing" in the past. So nothing new. Apparently, there will be plenty of room in the new government for arrogance, at least that's how it can be concluded after some candidates' presentations. Who's a mag? Visjak, a member of the Social Democratic Party, asked Mr Rope what he had done to ensure that 50.3 million tolars of illegally used funds employed in a restructuring and privatisation agency returned, he replied that he had asked that money be returned, that he demanded, if I remember now, also, that he had said a judicial route or something like that. Nice. Okay. But the question was, what did he do, not what he said? What did he do as president of the Supervisory Board, as a minister, as a member of the government? What did the government do in this case? Yeah, nothing, no. That's clear. Nothing. And so the government has done nothing in cases where it has found illegal use of funds in ministries. More than that. The people who run such ministries are candidates again today. It is quite clear that such people have lost credibility and thus have also lost credibility in the government with Mr Drnovsk at the helm. The principle of the division of power is given to Parliament by the legislative authority, the government by the political enforcement authority. Both branches of government are independent and independent of each other. That's what the textbooks say. In Slovenia, however, you are obviously closely connected if you do not already pour. As things are now going on, the government or the narrower political summit of liberal democracy, because the other coalition partners obviously have no special role to play in this matter, will decide on some matter, and everyone else will vote unanimously and obediently as ordered. Given the current ratio of forces in the National Assembly, the coalition will change the rules of procedure, at least as announced, and of course in the direction of greater efficiency and rationality than I have read somewhere. What does that really mean? It is not difficult to guess that the coalition will also try to silence the already weak opposition in this way. Let me say that Drnovskov's government will rationalize democracy in the next term. The fact is that liberal democracy has won too much and has formed a coalition with a two-thirds majority. The opposition is weak, it has only a quarter of the vote, 22. We do not complain about it, we are not hurt or offended, we just want the rules of the game that you have set for yourself to be respected. You can vote us over, you can take our word, but you can't take our dignity and our freedom of thought. A strong position should have so much political culture if it already lacks a sense of democracy to enable the opposition to play its role. As can be seen from the composition of the working bodies, Drnovška's coalition has given the opposition a completely marginal role; the most you are able to land on is that the opposition plays the role of the fig leaf. We are aware of the role, our roles in the National Assembly and we want to play it, but obviously the government coalition does not. Push or push us into a corner, you want us to stay there too, and your actual intentions and undemocratic posture will try to hide by offering us some places for which you have no interest or are irrelevant to you. When we rejected such offers so far because they were unworthy of us, you condemned us to force us. Please, when has it ever been that a weak minority blackmails a vast majority? As foretold, we will participate in the work of the National Assembly and its bodies. If there is no reasonable agreement, we will only be members of the working bodies, all leading functions should be carried out on your own. We will continue to insist that the opposition in the National Assembly will be given the right conditions for its operation. We will continue to critically assess the work of the ruling coalition, and if there is a miracle, the media will also summarize something small about it. We will continue to advocate the plurality of media space, etc. It is quite clear that Drnovskov's government does not need the opposition because of itself or the local public. You need an opposition because of your appearance in relation to the outside world. Democratic societies are characterized by democratic dialogue, but democratic dialogue is essential to the democratic behaviour of both sides and not just one. And a statement about the public. The candidates for ministers have announced serious measures, belt tightening, etc. But isn't it interesting that pensioners and DeSUS have not decided on any protest and convention where the President of the Republic would take place because there will be changes to the pension law and, of course, pensions will grow slower than they have been before if they don't even freeze. Trade unions do not protest, although the coalition has announced that workers' rights will be reduced. The government, in which I was responsible for the field of work, family and social affairs, has drawn up a law on work space for second reading. Your coalition contract says well that this will have to be aligned with European standards, which is, of course, complete nonsense because there are no such standards. It is only a question of whether we want to reduce the rights of workers or not. Here I will be very pleased to hear the debate about what the position will be, say, the United List of Social Democrats of some kind, but now I will really say that they will take the union position at the time, whether they will somehow forget everything they said a little while ago. Let's wait and see. Although the economy has also come to light with great hopes, if we sum up everything we have heard these days, I would say that the economy will also have to move more than ever in the form of contributions, taxes and more, but not protest, praise what it is. All right, let's do it. The government, as the largest employer, predicts restrictions in the public sector, and this one is as silent as a mouse. Under the new government law, there is no longer the Ministry of Science and Technology, and look, nor does the Rector of the University of Ljubljana, who can be very hospitable in all possible matters, Dr. Mencinger, say any. Science no longer has its minister, science is irrelevant. Neither the Maribor rector Toplak says any, nor the president of the research organisation, nor the directors of the large institutes. Everybody's pretty quiet waiting for what's gonna happen. But at the reception of Zois' prizes, I'm told and moaned and said, and that's terrible. This is the image of the professional public, but we didn't create this image. You've been in power for eight years, they're still hoping to tell us, but not you. So, the result of the success story [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u27	Please, for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u28	which we've been listening to for eight years is a crisis management program. [[...]] This begins with predictions of restrictions, belt tightening, etc. Wrong world, I'd say. On the one hand, Slovenia is in bloom, the story of success is one "full swing", said the Americans, okay. But you're predicting that the next few years will be difficult. How's it going together? Of course, it does not go as well as much as what you have said in these days, what you have said in recent years, but in particular what you have done in recent years. Therefore, the Social Democratic Party will not support this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Brace. Mr Marko Diaci has the floor, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, followed by Dr Janez Podobnik on behalf of the United People's Party. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u30	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members, distinguished Prime Minister and candidates for ministers! Respectable citizens of the Republic of Slovenia! The Parliamentary Group of the Young People's Party of Slovenia was more or less pleased with the hearing of ministerial candidates on the home labour bodies. The average rating could be "good." The fact is that individual areas are complex and candidates have set themselves many tasks to be carried out. Due to the macroeconomic constraints necessary to achieve the strategic objectives of the Republic of Slovenia and mentioned by the candidates for ministers, we believe that maximum coordination between the departments will be necessary to carry out the tasks. An integral part of the coalition agreement between the parties likely to form a government from now on is also the cooperation agreement signed separately by the Youth Slovenia Party and accepted by all coalition partners. We expect the Government to pay particular attention in particular to the following areas: education policy, employment policy, social policy, integration policy of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union, housing policy, equal opportunities policy, youth policy. We also expect your government to correct the mistakes that have been made in recent weeks, when we are again openly disappointed at the work of state authorities in working with young people. That's not the first time there's been any mistake. This happened in the case of the grant of scholarships to the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for employment because the right of these young people to scholarships, which are the real essence of the existence and residence of a student or student, was again violated. Or, for example, Zois’ scholarships, which are smaller than nominal and realistic, and should support the most talented in their content. The problem of scholarships, which exist for the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia in the context of solving work processes, is a challenge for students and students to survive. Students and students who have only received their first scholarship with a 20-day delay are aware of this very well. And more so those students who didn't even get their scholarships for the month of September. And once again, the problem of payment didn't come up for the first time this year. In the Young Slovenia Party, we expect that if there are no urgent changes in the way the Slovenian Employment Institute works, the story will continue equally in the following year. We therefore expect the country to start solving this problem today. We also point out that the European Union has started to write a White Paper on youth policy, which will be the basis for a coordinated and quality solution to youth issues and we note that Slovenia, as an associate member, has the right to participate in the drafting of this document. We therefore call on the government and the competent ministers to become aware of these activities and to actively participate both in the preparation and later implementation of the White Paper on Youth Policy and the Young Slovenia Party ensures that it will cooperate effectively with all its knowledge and energy. In the field of telecommunications, we remind the country that it must provide an information society that will be guided as cheaply as possible to access all sources of information, in particular the Internet, whose price of impulses the monopoly Slovenian operator is expected to encourage again in the near future. We strongly oppose this on behalf of the Young Slovenia Party and for the benefit of the users of services, as this further distances us from the information developed countries, which are both very much ahead of us and do not in any way allow such a trend as has been present in our country in recent years. In the area of defence and related activities of the integration of the Republic of Slovenia into NATO, we note that these are the priorities that we support in the Party of Youth of Slovenia as such in the coalition contract. We therefore hope that the Joint List Youth Forum has aligned its views with the parent on this issue, as this is, in our view, a condition for achieving the objectives set. We also want special attention to be given to the area of local self-government, because it is necessary to listen to the problems of local communities in the direction of the financial stability of local communities, which is a prerequisite for the decentralisation of our country so many times. In the area of culture in the Party of Youth Slovenia, we believe that Slovenian cultural space must be opened to the world as economic and scientific openings are. Culture is a living organism that develops only under the influence of the domestic and also the wider environment, adapts to it and thus improves. Therefore, it is unacceptable to think that subculture is not part of our country's culture. In the Young Slovenia Party, we support it and we hope that the government will support it as well. The creation of the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth Policy will for the first time in the history of independent Slovenia, the youth issue will begin to be addressed and resolved in a coordinated and effective manner. Respectable candidates and candidates for ministers! The quality of the government's work will depend primarily on you, so today, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia, I call on you to start a new period in our country, which will provide opportunities, knowledge, social security, employment and equal inclusion in society and the life of our country. We will support all candidates for ministers while at the same time closely monitoring and evaluating their work in the future. We wish you much success in favour of Slovenia and its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Diaci. I give the floor to Dr. Janez Podobnik, who will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's SLS+SKD Group, and after him I invite Mr Jelinčič to the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u32	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, distinguished Prime Minister Drnovšek, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers. The SLS+SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposed list. The high support that the proposed candidates and candidates received from the parental committees is, in our view, evidence of at least two. First of all, it has been shown that, despite different views, this constitutional and business institute is a good opportunity to present candidates for ministers and ministers for the first time comprehensively with their vision in Parliament. If this option is over, then it won't happen again. There may be different views, but the fact is that we have heard in these days a comprehensive presentation of visions for individual areas. It's an instrument that makes it possible. Secondly, the vast majority of support on the labour market is primarily a great responsibility for the coalition to make good and wise decisions with this majority. The formation of the Sixth Government in Slovenia alone is also an opportunity for this government to prepare a comprehensive vision, strategic objectives and leverage for the transition of Slovenia to a developed society for the next four years. In our parliamentary group, we firmly believe that the key challenge facing Slovenia is in the coming years, and this is also a challenge for Slovenian policy, how to enforce constitutional, legal and other institutions, that Slovenia will become a modern and efficient society of consensus. We are prepared to discuss some of the issues related to the role of the opposition with full responsibility in the coming days and weeks when the National Assembly will fully shape the composition of the working bodies. It is understandable that, in the role of the leader of the parliamentary group, I cannot express all the key programming guidelines that have been recorded in the government coalition or in the document presented by the Prime Minister. The government team proposed include three ministers proposed by our party. We are confident that they will do the work of ministers with responsibility, commitment and expertise. Allow me, however, only some of the programme highlights that are of particular importance to us. The order does not mean priority, but nevertheless, sound and stable public finances. Secondly, how to design such a comprehensive operation of different systems, different policies, especially health policies, so that the policies and instruments of the country will also allow Slovenian citizens and citizens to live healthy and longer in order to extend the lifespan of Slovenes and Slovenes. How to achieve the national consensus and strengthen it in a key foreign policy direction is to enter the European Union. Let this be a common European challenge for everyone in Slovenia, as well as for joining NATO. In our parliamentary group, we are particularly sensitive to issues related to regional development; the role of the municipalities is very important here. In the parliamentary group, we estimate that the programming text is very rich and very detailed in terms of challenges, how the Slovenian society and the Slovenian state will face the challenges of globalisation. Perhaps it is a bit weak in the following element: how globalisation will achieve and allow Slovenia and Slovenia to preserve our national essence. Our parliamentary group and our party, which is rooted in respect for Slovenia, will no doubt always be very sensitive here. I will conclude with the conviction that one of those areas, which is not alone shown in the programming texts, has been mentioned several times in these days also on the working bodies, the duty of the Slovenian State and Slovenian policy to deal with all its mechanisms with the reality of the very worrying demographic indicators. Here we expect Slovenian policy to be able to step together and design solutions that will be good for the future of Slovenia as a country. Prime Minister and newly elected ministers - I am sure that you will be elected - I want a successful job, and in the SLS + SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party you will have working but very attentive companions of all the provisions that have shaped our agreement to join the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Dr. Squirrel. I give the floor to Mr Zmaj Jelinčič, who will present the views of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members and will be followed by Mr Ivan Kebric, the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. That's a nice hello to you all! We have before us a proposal for a list of candidates for the appointment of ministers submitted by Dr. Janez Drnovšek. Some LDS colleagues said that "the light will now turn on when the forces of some former continuities disappear and new personnel will come". I think it might turn on the light, and yet it'll make sense that we'll sing that Kekcheva song all the time. Because we will have to have a lot of good will in order to be able to handle all the things, all the intestines that the multi-month Bajuk government has brought to a great extent. I will not descend in those periods that have led to the fact that the situation has deteriorated so much if I do not have to cut too far back, but certainly the errors have been increased, multiplied. I think we have a lot of work ahead of us, especially the proposed ministers and ministers. If we take a shot and go in the order of the candidate list. First, let's look at the foreign affairs of Dr. Dimitri Rupl. I think he's gonna have a hell of a lot of work to do. After all, if nothing else, information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is leaking at all ends and places. They're earlier performed by those who shouldn't know, like those in the next room where the information is intended. The distribution in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will urgently need to be rectified. It will be necessary to correct the starting points and those vehement ignorant and voluntary moves that have taken place in the last few months. He will have to address, for example, the issue of the Slovenian Embassy in Paris, where the house was purchased by the State and it was bought as a house where it can immediately begin to work and yet the State Secretary from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs under Mr. Peterlet, Mr. Raščan, scattered this house and broke it down by bringing seven Bosnians to order the house, something even without citizenship, who, without the knowledge of Ambassador Kunič, smashed the house and after ten days when they broke everything and did nothing, left. The company Esad-Palamar, painting and wallpapering from Vojkova 77, received 10 million Slovenian tolls for this work. It's true they demanded 12, but they got 10. These people have destroyed a lot of things, but above all they have destroyed the fact that, say, the embassy or embassy in Paris cannot work, even though it could have worked for almost six months in new spaces. The people in the Ministry didn't even think about what security meant. For if foreign citizens do such work at their own embassy, at the Slovenian Embassy, they will certainly send at least smart intelligence services to someone who has already planted something in a corner. At least that's what fellow Members can learn from their fellow Members, but before that, ministers from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs could learn from their fellow Members. Certainly Mr Rupel will spend quite a lot of time, resources and nerves to put this ministry in order. It will certainly take a long time to settle what is not regulated in relation to some countries that are very important for our country, for example, in relations with Yugoslavia. Three people have done great harm in this area, Mrs Petrič, Mejak and Cigoj. However, I hope, at least, that Mr Petrič will not come back to work on this issue again, so that Mr Cigoj will remain in Montenegro, where he has been sent after the "poor" thought and "poor" suggestion of Mr Petrič, who in the meantime took his place in New York, and that Mr Mejak will cease to be such an expert as they thought he was, and that new people will be introduced at the ministry under the tactics of Mr Rupl. I'm sure we'll have to settle our relationship with Iraq. The embargo will fall briefly, Slovenia needs oil and so far only one Slovenian policy and one Slovenian political party has so much sense [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u35	Please, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u36	That she went to visit. [[...]] This is a Slovenian national party and I personally. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] Thank you so much for the applause. [[...]] It'll probably be easier for you to clap when the oil prices come down on us. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] [[...]] It will undoubtedly be necessary to develop an alternative option for Slovenia to enter the European Union. The East is a very important item in international policy. It will certainly be necessary to connect with the Russian Federation, China and other Eastern countries. Even with Cuba, Mr. Mayor. I see some gentlemen of social democracy don't understand things, but I'll lend you a book, you'll read something. I'm sure it's not just the United States of America in the world. This is one segment that will set different starting points with Bush's election to Europe. There is no doubt that an agreement on small-border cooperation with neighbouring Croatia will also have to be drawn up, which, in the previous mandate, the People's Party has failed to lead to the rejection by the National Assembly. I fear that this National Assembly will accept it - I must say that we will also vote against it in the future. I am afraid that with this, Slovenians will lose sovereignty over their sea and sovereignty over a large part of the Slovenian coast, because in the small border band on the side of Slovenia is covered for Croats the complete territory of Slovenia, from the Slovenian-Croatian border to the Slovenian-Italian border, and into the depth it reaches so deep that it covers both crossings, from the coast to the crossing of Škofija. Croatian ships will be able to sail the sea with a small border pass and because they have all Croatian companies, Brodospas, Jadrolinija and all others, their exhibitions also in Novigrad or Umag, which belongs in a small border area, these ships will be able to sail across the Slovenian sea without the possibility of Slovenian customs, Slovenian police or any other authorities involved in their transactions. They will come nicely to the Italian-Slovenian border and cross with a passport. The next minister is Minister of the Interior or candidate is Dr. Rado Bohinc. A lot of work awaits him, too, and I hope that the senseless actions of the police, when they place them on the road to the coast on certain days, from Kozina to the coast, after three blocks, block the whole road, push them all away, ask them questions under the spotlights, inspect cars, actually walk long and narrow, they have to turn their pockets and everything like that, because they're supposed to be looking for drugs. One wonders whether gentlemen - perhaps it will be necessary, Mr Bohinc, to correct this, for it is necessary to tell gentlemen today that those who are "smuggling" drugs will be able to get through at least two mobile phones, one that is in the car, driving forward and telling if there are cops, and the other that is in the hands of the one who listens and turns and goes the other way. [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u37	Please, there's no intervention during the show.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u38	I think it would make sense to put an end to this, because in no way does a good light fall on the Slovenian police, who only smiles with such actions. But he will certainly have another task, which means equipping the police - the police will have to be equipped, arranged and, if nothing else, ensured that the police have at least enough petrol. As I am aware, the police do not even have enough money to pay the price of gasoline to Slovenian Petrol. Maybe it would also make sense to get rid of the petrol bills for the cops. After all, it is about putting money from one pocket into another pocket, and no one has much use for it. There is also a reform of public administration. I think this is going to be the toughest nut for Dr. Bohintz, because, as we know, he's not a lawyer. It would make sense, or I hope, whether he's a lawyer, but then I'm wrong, and then he's an economist, because as a minister of science, he acted as an economist, and certainly not as a lawyer, at least his moves were like that. The question of whether or not Mark Pogorjevac will remain on the agenda for the organisation of the police, as a segment, for example, can also come to the attention of the public administration. The next minister or candidate is Dr. Anton Grizold, Minister of Defense. Undoubtedly, the most resounding action will be the one they have already launched under Minister Janša, which is the professionalisation of the Slovenian army. Today the Slovenian army acts as a poorly organized camp unit. The Slovenian army is without leadership, without purpose and without purpose. After all, this is not the fault of officers or subcontractors; it is a good cadre, but it is undoubtedly the fault of irregularity in the field of legislation and sub-legislative acts. Such failures by some young men in the military are unacceptable to this ministry. It's about people who are without motivation, without everything, and as moms, they call the chief of the barracks to make sure their sons wear thick socks so they don't get cold in their feet. In fact, it is a disgrace for the entire Slovenian government and for all of Slovenia, not just the Ministry of Defence. In professionalization, I think it will be necessary to ensure that if this happens, it will not be the private army of the minister, but that if it does, it will be the professional army of the Republic of Slovenia. We are not in favour of this in our party to have Morris again, as he was at the beginning, when this was a unit of the Ministry of Defence, we are not in favour of developing from this historical pattern from the late twentieths and early thirties when "Laibstandardte" grew into "Sturmabteilung" and then into "Shutstafeln". Perhaps it is good here alone that Mr Drnovšek has failed to bring Mr Ernest Petrič, who wanted him, to this place, and it is good that this Mr Petrič has remained in America. Next one's a mag. Tone Rop, candidate for Minister of Finance. I must say that I appreciate Mr Rope as an expert, although I think he might be doing better in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and that perhaps Mr Mojmir Dark would be Minister of Finance. However, I am sure that Mr Rob will keep this expert on his team as a consultant. He's got a whole bunch of problems on his mind, too. And if we turn to just a few of these problems, it is certainly one of the major problems of tax administration. To avoid talking about the entire tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia, let us look only at the tax administration of Cyprus. There they are at the head of this tax administration, people who are actually destroying the coastal economy. I'm not going to let go of whether that's their purpose or whether they're doing it because of incompetence and ignorance, but it's going to be absolutely necessary to replace these people. After all, the chief of management was the one who refused to wear the new Slovenian label in 1991, because he had no idea what he was going to do and what he was going to do. Such people certainly do not belong in this position, and I think that Mr Rob will have to think twice about keeping these people alive or replacing them. It will also have to deal with various problems with economic operators who are suing the Slovenian State for errors it has made in the financial field and have already received lawsuits before the courts. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Finance did not wish to deal with these people until now, which would be in the interest of the State. If these people recover, as this German has recovered from the European Court of Justice, their "right" will indeed bring these people, Slovenian citizens, to their rights. They went in line across all the internal steps of the justice system, received lawsuits on these steps and now the Ministry of Finance does not want to correct these errors, does not want to participate, despite the fact that these people are prepared for agreements and any agreement means a great savings for the Slovenian country. This is, say, the company Iola that sued the country for a few million German brands. It will also be necessary to rewind certain people who do not implement and comply with the laws that were in force in those times when certain companies were put in a difficult situation, when they were illegally charged with taxes and are still being sued and blackmailed to pay that tax. These people will also go to the European Court and get a lawsuit there. It's, like, Radiol from Kostabona. In short, Mr. Candidate for Minister is working hard. The applicant for economic activities is Dr. Tea Petrin. If I continue to deal with the things that I have just said, from the same area, from Primorska, the issue of the deliberate destruction of certain economic operators, when the Ministry, now the Ministry of the Bajuk Ministry for Economic Affairs, did not have the hearing to resolve the indemnity of saving 80 jobs at the Hrapelje glass plant in Kozina, even though I warned the Minister at the time. They didn't think it was worth calling the bankruptcy manager and selling that company for the amount requested or for the sum submitted to the buyer, but rather, I don't know why, probably for personal reasons, for personal reasons, for personal reasons, they let the firm fail to destroy the glassworks, to lose 80 jobs and more. Certainly, Mrs Tea Petrin will also have to give her secretaries a good spin in order not to repeat the Šuštar issue, when this Mr. Secretary, from Mr Dragonje to date, had such scissors and canvas in his hands, in particular one large shovel to throw money through the window or into certain pockets. If what the media say is true, that only in the last year 3 billion 500 million dollars of irrefundable loans went into different hands, and if what people in Slovenia say is true, some will also be affected by the fact that it was not only him that was fueled by this money, but also by some of the political parties and even political parties, Mr Petrinovo will have a lot of work to do. It will certainly have to cooperate with other ministries in changing and correcting the tax administration if we want the Slovenian economy to grow. The Slovenian economy is in recession. New taxes are being prepared, and I don't think that's good. It is not good in this way and in tax policy, instead of following the wishes of the Slovenian economy, we bow to Europe and are prepared for Europe to look at us a little better, to land on a lot of ground. Why does Europe take and want Cyprus to be its wing, and as soon as possible, rather than Slovenia, it is divided in half? Why? Because of their tax policy, which allows for the growth of small companies, which allows for the growth of so-called companies in the newspaper or in the letterbox and so on. That's why they want to have them in Europe to ban it! Austria was taken, and the first thing they demanded was the abolition of the confidentiality of tax deposits because they said Austria was laundering money. It's true, then what? Let's get it, let's make it! So what's going on in Austria now? They demand to leave the European Union because they want to live well. I think that the Slovenian people deserve to live well, and Slovenian citizens must feel good, safe and, above all, social security in Slovenia. The candidate for Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is Dr Vlado Dimovski. Corrections to pension reform are urgently needed, and yet it is a topic and bone that is not only hot when it is taken from the crane but will be hot all the time. The public administration's payment system is imported. The former governments have agreed to the pressure of judges, doctors and similar associations, which have forced good positions, but which are simply by themselves. There has been a breakdown of the complex public administration payment system, and this will need to be rectified. The candidate for transport and communications is Mr Jakob Preseknik, who is known as the former Chairman of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee in the National Assembly. I hope the Air Force Act goes through now. Mr President has been very successful in blocking the adoption of this law as Chairman of the Committee, and I hope that it will no longer be so and that certain things will come to pass. However, I am sure that if he wants certain things to come to pass, he will have to replace at least one of his secretaries, and that is also former Member of Parliament Jaret Pregl, who is certainly the crucible of development in the Ministry of Transport and Communications. However, I would like to know whether, in fact, the management of Telekom Marjan Podobnik has been included in or will be replaced by a coalition contract; however, whether the privatisation or sale of Telekom will wait, and then it will be replaced. Well, maybe I'll repeat this question in a little while when Telekom or when the issue of telecommunications goes to the new ministry. I hope that Mr Presečnik in his ministry of transport and communications will also be ecologically oriented and will support the construction of green bridges on Slovenian highways, which is also a European project, and if the government of Slovenia, the new, future government, wants so much to enter Europe, I hope that it will also accept it. At the same time, he will try to get a job from domestic contractors. In Italy, as a subcontractor, it is impossible for any Slovenian company to participate as a subcontractor. Not to mention that any Slovenian company should work as a contractor. We put work on our noses in the hands of foreigners, who then take for subcontractors Slovenian companies, pick up cream, pay subcontractors to a large extent what they should be paid, and: goodbye. Subcontractors, for those simplest jobs, with half the money, are Slovenian companies. I think it's a shame. However, I hope that he will put in this framework, or now that new infrastructure projects are also being discussed, that he will also put in these projects a coastal road between Kopro and Isola, by taking up the tunnel link between these two cities, and by doing so we will gain Slovenians about 4.6 kilometers of coastline. Which is huge for Slovenia, because this is more than 10% of the Slovenian coast. There are also roads in Prekmurje. The roads are being repaired there; and yet nothing has been done, but it is about time. And one more thing: I hope that he will still get the trucks on the railways and not allow the old, spoiled trucks from various countries that are not allowed to enter Italy in any way and move them on our side of the border to the Italian trucks to drive it further, but that these trucks will go to the railway and not destroy the roads or the environment, and that the Slovenian state will also get some additional money on the railway infrastructure. Mrs. Booth, mag. Buta, who runs for agriculture, forestry and nutrition, will certainly hunt Slovenian farmers when we enter Europe. The fact is that farmers in Europe, Slovenian farmers in Europe, are facing a much worse picture than those of Austrian farmers - despite all that, they were on a higher level and had more money. But as a country, the Slovenian state has no money. The government, both the current negotiators and this government, which is supposed to occupy the throne today, does not have the right negotiators to provide Slovenia with a starting point for Slovenian farmers to secure their lives peacefully. I also hope that he will not continue with Minister Smurf's policy and grant grants to client-sized farmers, but will help small farmers. I also hope that he will not treat Slovenian bears in the same way as Mr Smurf and that he will not allow and sign the shooting of bears everywhere, especially where their then president builds his own house. Mr. Janez - Mag. Janez Kopač - is a candidate for environment and space. The protection of the bar, which is an acute problem - not only Ljubljana but Slovenia - has been calling by law for eight years. Promises were made all the time, and of these promises - nothing. And yet it is more sown with black constructions that will have to be removed from this map. At least it is plannedly destroyed and if anyone thinks that he will gather to allow the French to build his own shop on the bar, they need it or should tell him that this Leclerc then sells his shop soon and buys it to the Slovenian Mercator, it is only and only a name that needs to be paid by the way and spent certain money. I hope that Mr Kopač will not raise a fee for building permits to fill the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and that he will be more rigorous, stricter in this area, but that he will not collect any more money. Mr Kopač is the largest protector of the Slovenian budget - we certainly remember him from the National Assembly at least. I hope he looks at people here. I hope he will also work with Mr President to build green bridges. Green bridges - across Slovenian motorways for animal crossings - are being built everywhere in Europe and even in Croatia; the only country that does not look at it with a smile is the Republic of Slovenia. I also hope that it will not fit in with any cheap incinerators or waste incinerators and that it will interfere with the new technologies that can be obtained, which are accessible, but which also bring money to the country with their implementation, but not in the way that it would be incinerated by incineration plants, then from Austrians, Germans, Swiss, French and others for certain money, to incinerate toxic waste in Slovenia. For this is the quiet purpose of many of those who advocate for incinerators. As Minister of Justice, Mr Ivan Bizjak is expected to take his seat. I have no good opinion on the work of Mr Ivan Bisjak. As Minister of the Interior, he did nothing when the gentlemen of Morris planted a bomb under my car. As the ombutsman did not do what he was supposed to do, people sent a whole series of complaints to our side, and for the legal profession in this position is certainly not acceptable. In the opinion of our party and in my opinion, the justice minister should be a lawyer. It is specific and I think that these specific matters are so important that this area should be taken over by a lawyer. It also bothers me when Mr Bizjak said at the "hearing" that he advocated remaining the so-called life term of judges. This very mandate of judges, once confirmed, who remain judges for all eternity, is essentially driven by sound logic, with people's wishes and with the rights of other citizens. And this one is not a life-long one until he retires, but people call him a life-long term of judges, is actually a disgrace to Slovenia, because if there was a desire for these judges to become apolitical, it turned out that these judges have become very, very political because they know that no one can do anything to them. However, Mr Bizjak, the fact that he is not a lawyer, may be corrected - in four years, the law school ends with a little grace, Mr candidate. For education and sport, the candidate is Mrs. Lucia Chok. I hope she stands up for the third university in Primorska. The Slovenian National Party supports this third university; we believe that Slovenia should also get this university. And here the government - I hope that it will not only remain on promises, as has been the case for quite some time, but that these promises will apply I hope that, as a school minister, it will change certain historical untruths that the Slovenians, after the dictatorship of the Berlin School of History of the early 19th century, will take on autonomy and will support research towards the autonomy of the Slovenian nation. The idea of the Venetos as our ancestors is known everywhere in Europe, Venetology is a famous segment of the study of historical science. This is not the case with us, for it is still based on the never-present displacement of nations in the 6th century. But I understand the historians who, on the basis of these postgraduates, obtained their diplomas, obtained or obtained their doctorate, Master's degree, and so forth. I also hope that it will take into account its client's school programme, which, unfortunately, I must say is not bad; a lot needs to be corrected, but in principle it is good. And one more thing. I've already talked about public services, the payment system. I think that schoolchildren also deserve to get their salaries fixed, in particular to align themselves with others paid by the public administration, without giving priority only to doctors due to the fears of some high-level politicians and only judges due to the fears of some other high-level politicians. Dr. Dusan Keber is a health candidate. In health care they do not have a good opinion about him because they say he advocates centralism, that he wants to close all health homes in Slovenia and simply submit them to a single strong clinical centre. I think that local hospitals, although truly specific to Slovenia, are important and urgently needed in this particular specification. I also hope that he will commit himself to the adoption, as soon as possible, of a law or amendment of the Health Action Act, to take into account the medical staff's chambers in this law, not only the Medical Chamber, but also others, for which he may have to draw his State Secretary Zajc to his ears if he keeps it. It has been retained by all the ministers so far, perhaps it would make sense for Mr Keber to replace it. Because we are not in any position to prefer merely medical personnel at the expense of other medical personnel. I also hope or wish that section "c" in the drug law will be definitively regulated - these are medical aids. Auxiliary medicines, including alternative medicine, have long been included in Europe's legislation. With us doctors, because they feel that direct substitutes of God are on earth when walking around in white robes, they forget that it is not essential or essential to heal, not the way that a person gets better. I think Dr. Keber knows that at least 30 percent of each medicine has a placebo effect, and it would make sense for this to be settled. Mr. Bavčar - what should I say to him? Mr Bavčar, I will not tell you anything, perhaps just that it would make sense to warn Mr Potočnik that the Croats should not be helped to enter Europe. The Croats should find themselves alone. Mr Potočnik has enough work to do with Slovenia's entry into the European Union. It would make sense to fight for Slovenian interests and to transfer the energy it consumes in convincing and teaching the Croats to our side. In spite of everything, we will always be and everywhere against the closure of free-carrying shops. For if Europe, as a developed society, took eight years to adjust when it enters - I don't know what entry they're already in Europe - that they've adapted to shut down these free-of-carry shops, so of course they haven't closed them down, but that they've changed the name of these shops. It doesn't say "duty free" anymore, but it says "travel value", terms of purchase, prices, tax exemptions are the same as before. But we Slovenians, as good servants, must continue to nod quickly from the court of Vienna, do before the master slips with his hand to be happy. It's important to realize that no one likes servants and servants when you don't need them anymore, you send them to the corner. And if some of our politicians in Europe have suffered shoulder to shoulder and in German they are told that you are, "but you are a fine child", that is not enough for Slovenia, and I think that this should no longer happen. Mrs Andreja Richter will, I hope, support the preservation of national being. This should be its primary task and the preservation of national life: it goes to museum activity, it goes to mobile cultural heritage, it goes to a fixed cultural heritage, this is what the Slovenian people raises in many cases also over European nations, over many people. In fact, as I have already told Mrs Chok, that what will change about the never-present migration of nations and that the autonomy of the Slovenian people will begin to be explored, despite the fact that it has been banned twice in Slovenia's history or twice has been prohibited from exploring this topic. First, at the end of 1860, when an extensive article on the Venetian language was published each year in the journals of Matica Slovenije, and then the second time, immediately after2. World War II when even Boris Kidric's father was banned from discussing it, writing it, and so forth. I hope that today, and in this government, we will overcome these prohibitions. I hope the media law is good. This is a terrible thing, and in the framework of the law, there will also have to be a lot of attention, and I certainly hope that democracy will also have to be taken care of and allow the right option to carry out that project of the right-wing daily newspaper that it now has in its drawers. What was I going to say about these things? [[Answers from the gym.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u39	May I have peace in the hall, please? Once again, I ask for peace in the hall. Comrade Victory Jelinčič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. To say: The Slovenian national party wants to tell you that we know such problems, we know such weak points, we know irregularities. And we're gonna keep our eyes on the government. I hope the media will help us with this. During the two mandates, the media closed down a lot of times and preferred to listen to strong political parties who told them what to write and what not to do. I hope it's not gonna be like this anymore. And because we want, despite all that something is being done for Slovenia to strengthen Slovenia, that Slovenia will get its place where it belongs, we will support the proposal for a list of candidates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u41	Thank you very much for your comprehensive contribution to my colleague, Victory Jelinčič. Mr Ivan Kebrič has the floor to present the position of DeSUS's Group of Members, followed by a colleague from Tone Anderlič for Liberal Democracy and Miran Potrč for the United List.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u42	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished candidates for ministers and respected candidates for ministers. In our Group of Members, we have thoroughly reviewed the proposal that has been submitted to us for the composition of the government. We believe that the composition is good, and we believe that it is imperative that we move as soon as possible to carry out the tasks we have - both the government and the highest authority of the executive branch, both us Members and Members of the legislative body - to move on to those tasks which the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and which were entrusted to us by the electorate, the electorate. We believe that we, too, could have a long and broad debate and talk about what we are thinking about or the area covered by this minister or minister. We believe, however, that it is essential that we move as soon as possible towards the implementation of our coalition agreement, because the tasks are clearly defined and as such necessary for us to start implementing. In this coalition agreement, each party has tried to give its best in its programmes. And certain programmes are identical; we all fight and want to reduce unemployment in order to create and open new jobs, we all want education to be so high that our schoolchildren, when they are done, are fit and ready for Europe. We all want such a health care that will be accessible to all; not only to one but to all the latest achievements of health sciences and medicines available, to all - not only to those who can pay in certain cases. We want science to be given that emphasis that will lead us through technology to better management. I will not list any further, because these tasks, as I say, are identical or very similar. Maybe we're just different in order of priority. Perhaps, if I say in a cartoon way: one we think, we will buy one tank or two or a helicopter less, or we will use that money to open new jobs, yes, at the stage or in the priority of eliminating poverty. We know where we are - in those and others - and we believe - that we want to conclude that we want this government to start when we elect it today, and also with our help - us, the four members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia - to start working tomorrow and that we will also start and abandon such and different delays and engage in those laws that are ready, and to make changes to those laws that are necessary to change them so that we can adapt and comply with Europe as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u43	Thank you very much to Mr. Kebrich of the DeSUS Group. I ask Toneta Anderlič, the leader of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group, to introduce us to her views; the discussion will be concluded by fellow Members of the Group, Mr Miran Potrč of the United List.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u44	Your Honor! The coalition has 58 members, so that is not even two-thirds, but a large majority in this National Assembly is enough to say that we have formed a large coalition. In the LDS, we believe that this coalition will be able to carry out all the programmes presented and implemented by the Prime Minister and by candidates for ministers and ministers, in the manner and satisfaction of all citizens and citizens. Most of the things are written in the coalition contract, but life will certainly run under, some will need to adapt and resolve things that will be set before this government and this coalition, and, of course, before this country. [[...]] We are confident that the opposition will be - for us it is 32 Members and not 22; mathematics can be a very exact matter and accounting presents some problems, but it is an account before mathematics if I am well aware. In this sense, it is certainly true for this coalition that work, the composition of the programme and the composition of the coalition contract have been put in place in large quantities, many coordinations, many hours left over and indeed made the programme that represents for Slovenia and for these parties who have been given a mandate in the elections to lead this country, so that it will not leave any issue in vain, and that we will finally be able to say that we have all worked together for this country and for these citizens. I believe that logic will not prevail in the current coalition - because it was already different in these preparations - as someone has already mentioned here: if what one party imagines, they nod everyone else and bring them out. I believe it was now that what the SDS had imagined was done by two other parties, one of which was a bit of a struggle, and the other one was blindly following. The spirit of the CK haunted the country of Kranjska for the past five and a half months and such an inheritance as can now be found in the balance sheet, it would be difficult to cause any war on these soils. But of course, the balance sheet will have to be made, corrected, and certainly today is not the time to criticise the 1992-1996 government, not the criticism of the government, which has been from 1996 to June 2000, but especially the view of the electoral results and the citizens and citizens who want the power in this country. The responsibility of the LDS is great, it is the greatest and, of course, we are not afraid of it; responsibility also in the direction of respect for the rights of minorities. And if the SDS and SNI feel threatened in any way, then I can assure you that it is not so much that they will have at least as many presences in the working bodies and in the decision-making process in the national assembly as they have received support in the elections. So, the percentage proportional representation of the Liberal Democracy will be advocated all the time. There is no correct claim - on the contrary, it is misleading - that it has been any other way so far in this month when we discussed how to divide the leadership of the National Assembly, the management of working bodies and how to ensure participation in working bodies in order to make it any different than in the comparable 11 countries of the European Union. Go take a look and you'll see! In all of these countries, it is in the same way as the presence was ensured and at the outset it was also in our case that it is in all of these countries. Mr Peterle knows very well how his fellow internationalist, Mr Kohl, was in the German Parliament when he was in power for 17 years, as the largest parliamentary group first chose the management of working bodies and collected them as much as they should, because their rules of procedure and their arrangements provide for this. In any case, it is true that, at the beginning of these talks and even in the midst of them, Mr Brejc publicly stated that he was satisfied with what social democracy had received in these divisions, that he would later find that he would not be able to play the role of the victim, that he would not be able to scream: hold the thief, that it is what belongs to him and that then a situation arose: if we do not go, go ahead, you do whatever you want, we will be constructive or any opposition already. That logic is acceptable, too! But this logic was established by you, gentlemen and I believe that what was said before was sincere, just as I sincerely supported the proposal, namely to amend the government law - I am talking about June - because I believed that the idea of reducing the number of ministries - I think that 11 fucked them in that project envisaged - is an honest matter and because I know that this is useful for this country. And that is why, of course, it is us, because, without the fact that the LDS did not back it up at the time, the LDS 26 would have supported it, even any other party that was then in the opposition - so to this day - would have supported it. You're not gonna believe this! The biggest problem and reservations and withdrawals from those positions were from the current position of Bajuk. That's what this was all about! And more! On the one hand, you say: we offered you a law that would reduce the number of ministries, rationalize the whole matter, make the government more flexible, more operational and so on, and you say, just because it was proposed by the Bajuk government, you did not support it. That's not true! It's a hoax. By the time the proposal came and when it was actually adopted in the National Assembly, you produced a referendum. The current Member, a former Member, a municipal councillor from a specific party that is second in this House, and even a number of relatives and similar have seduced this referendum. It is all for free to say on television: our customer has nothing to do with it, but it is of course for citizens to decide whether or not they will sign. It can, it can be manoeuvring, it can be a thing that someone likes and even thinks someone will believe it. We believe in the dark. Because we can't believe it. Your ambitions in this part were not sincere. And even in the part where you talk about how you are a victim of disproportionate distribution of jobs in working bodies and in the management of working bodies, they are not accurate, they are not, above all, sincere because you probably want to be a victim and we will not help you. We still think that there is room enough and the time is for an agreement, it is time for an agreement; agree and believe that an agreement is within that to find. Of course, it is clear that if you write seven priorities of these three in your proposals, it is clear that this is more than enough. For for others who also have priorities, then is gone. And in this sense, we probably cannot say that it is only then that a possible agreement is possible, and only then does a minority not get wrong when only and only what she wants get. However, agreement and once again agreement are needed on these issues. And I believe that now will be the time for an agreement, when we will finally establish a very clear relationship between the position and the opposition and me in this respect, particularly the public praise of Mr Brejc, that it is good to negotiate and talk and that what they already had in social democracy is a great deal - almost everything they imagined. It is true, however, that in this part of the world some solidarity overcame a younger brother in the coalition, who in one way or another had more at his disposal than he would have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Anderlich. I give the floor to Mr Miran Potræ, who will speak on behalf of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats and thus conclude the presentations of the groups of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u46	Dear Mr Pahor, President of the National Assembly, distinguished candidates for ministers and candidates for ministers! A month and a half ago, voters and voters decided on the composition of this National Assembly and each of the parties participating in it dedicated a share of their trust. On the basis of this contribution, a coalition was formed and the Prime Minister elected, who drafted proposals between coalition parties for ministers and ministers to be decided on today. Our conviction is that the proposal is a good one and that the candidates for ministers and candidates for ministers are ready and able to carry out the responsible and difficult tasks that await this government, according to their best abilities for the benefit of citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Members and Members of the Consolidated List are confident and ready to be asked in this direction to take the most responsible and serious action and to give them the necessary support in preparing and implementing the decisions taken in the Government and in the National Assembly. In this direction, we also believe and understand that our common desire for a government to be formed as soon as possible in the light of the electoral results is understandable and justified. It is only after a month and a half before citizens and citizens to carry out this action and to ensure that the tasks entrusted to them by the elections are carried out in a responsible manner. I would like to point out that Members and Members of the Consolidated List are aware of our responsibilities and tasks to the full. We do not imagine that power is taken over in government or in the National Assembly in order to be easily realized for the benefit of ourselves, the parties or the larger groups. This power can only be assumed in full responsibility for the tasks that await us, for the benefit of citizens and citizens, people and for the programme that we - I would hope to say so - especially so far - also with regard to tasks that are not pleasant and difficult - have been entered into a coalition contract. We were in the United List of Social Democrats two months earlier in the opposition. We are aware of this situation, we know that in this situation you can only participate in decision-making, you can't make your own decisions as a rule because you don't have the majority to do it. However, even in this situation, it is possible to be constructive and to participate in proposing decisions, and it may be possible to act in such a way as to prevent, above all, the necessary decisions from being taken. We would like to see cooperation in the National Assembly as much as possible, and that the second - the latter - would be only a hindrance to decision-making - as little as possible. What will be the situation will also depend on the opposition, not just the coalition. But it is true that even from the coalition and its conduct, not only from the opposition. Two are needed for good cooperation, and two are most often needed for contention and non-cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You probably don't have to point out that as a coalition party, we will support your election. We wish you a success. We will cooperate as long as it is in our power. We also imagine this cooperation as, I would say, creative help and criticism of your work, as your willingness to act collectively, as your willingness to listen to suggestions, ideas to be given. We also want to respect the relations between the Government and the National Assembly, including your attitude towards respect for the Rules of Procedure and the procedure in the National Assembly, so that we can help in what this National Assembly can and must help in the work which means the legislative authority, as it is enforceable for you. We want all this cooperation and successful work to be in favour of the implementation of the adopted programme, so that Slovenia will be an economically successful and socially just country, in order to ensure progress, in order to provide approximately equal opportunities for all to work, development, decent survival, in order for knowledge to be the basis and guide our progress and for Slovenia to be a successful country in an equal European community of countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u47	Thank you very much, colleague Run. With his performance, we have exhausted the presentations on the positions of the Members of the European Union. In accordance with Article 67, the following gentlemen will have the opportunity to discuss without a time limit: Mr Barovič, Tsukljati, Bernik, Petan, Peterle, Pukšič, Peče, Jerovšek, Kelemina and Mr Rupar. Following Mr Rupar's performance, Members and Members will, of course, be able to apply for the debate, but I limit it to their debate for a maximum of five minutes. Mr Barovich has the first word. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members, honourable Members, colleagues, colleagues. I'll be shorter than time allows. When I became a member of quite a few working bodies, I was aware of the responsibility of working for all of us in these working bodies, and this responsibility was so much greater because we met and faced for the first time in some decisions on how to express our opinion, whether a candidate for a minister or a minister is suitable or not. I was at five hearings, from start to finish, and listening, trying to listen to nothing but content. That's the one that got me to make the decisions. These were not the same in all five cases, because I was deciding on my own conscience and my own judgment. I have gathered three objectives that I thought must be met when presenting candidates and candidates. The third was that the content of the programme presented by candidates for ministers or ministers was so designed that it allowed for the continuity of good work. Secondly, it was more important that the content was accurate and that the programme had clear objectives, at least some, for the benefit of the Slovenian State. And the first, most important is that I come from Zasavje, which is not a region, but I would like to be a legal-form region and I want legislation to be regulated to be a legal-form region. Because I come from Zasavje, where the unemployment rate has been at the same high level for two years and is increasing and I would like it to be smaller and I would like it to be reduced by amending laws or by adopting new laws or by working with the government. Because I come from Zasavje, where local communities are trying to prepare programmes on the basis of which they will already employ so many unemployed people, as well as those which the industrial past of course drives away from work; and I would like laws to be regulated so that they do not interfere with the work of local communities. And finally, because I can't explain to the people in Zasavje what the political position and opposition is, who's for and explain the thesis that's valid here, but I don't agree with it: if you're not "against" you. I don't like and I don't like political power, even if it's absolute and self-inflicted. However, I know that the only argument I can fight against political power is to prove with content that we are sometimes right in the opposition, and I am sure that we will be able to do so within four years. And there's something else I know. That if the government coalition is so strongly entrenched only on political grounds and on "trading" in narrations, it will soon collapse, disintegrate and divide. So, Zasavje was my first reason and the fact that I confirmed three of the five candidates for ministers that I want the government to start working as soon as possible, in good, of course, our places, as well as all of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Barovich. The next one has the word France Tsukati, followed by Dr. Bernik.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u50	Ladies and gentlemen! In the whole process of presenting candidates, there were many beautiful promises, plans - if you really did take them - you should say that a number of them are impossible and that even sometimes an urban question would be why it has not happened so far. However, the presentation is a presentation and also includes an element of unpredictability or desire that may not be realized. However, I was disturbed or disturbed by the fact that the candidates repeatedly answered the questions, but they avoided questions that might have been a little harsher in the matter. Above all, it bothered me that sometimes some candidates were very black and white critical to this five-month-old Bajuk's government, sometimes even tastelessly critical, and until the government's action in recent years, I must say, uncritical, which is and is also detrimental to future work. With regard to the suitability of individual candidates, however, I would only touch on the areas I manage, because "but the shoes should belong to the hooves", as regards the Ministry of Health. I want to explain why I didn't support Dr. Kebra's candidacy. Look, the coalition agreement you signed, the ruling coalition, on almost a hundred pages, is aimed at only two sides of health care. On these two sides, there are some principled approaches that are so universally acceptable that they are not challenged, but one side is dedicated to details that I do not know what they have to do in a global document. Nothing, but nothing about saving basic health care. This is not a small problem of equal access to health care, an equality that we all swear to. There are still places where there are 5,000 people tied to an ambulance, which is only twice a week, and comes in those places virtually one doctor per 8,000 inhabitants, if considered to be full-time, and we have places where after 1,400 people come to the general doctor. It is a human resources problem where we know that the average age of doctors in rural areas is 50 years, and we are actually sinking into a human resources gap and there have been job offers in some health homes for years and years without response. It is a problem of neglecting the adult population, those who are most sick and who have increased by about 40% in the last ten years, this is an age group of 65 to 75 years, and we have not paid any more attention to this under Drnovška's eight-year-old government. This is due to the dramatic rise in chronic diseases, cancers, such an increase that we do not hope to report it to and hide the world’s health organization. It is therefore a number of problems that have been solved by the current liberal democracy policy, which in the field of basic health is virtually poor, and does not solve it in this coalition agreement. And the candidate for minister was caught on purpose or voluntarily in this narrow coalition agreement in this area. It was because I had not seen any new way, no new approach to this issue, that I was against. In general, however, if you allow the ruling coalition to be so severe at the beginning of the mandate, it has taken decisive action to make extensive changes to the Government Act and, as announced, to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The law is obviously designed to increase the freedom of government by means of innovations such as the introduction of ministerial councils. With the novelty of the Rules of Procedure, however, we are expected to read among the lines of the coalition agreement, so that the opposition will be severely reduced by the manoeuvre of influence. It is not good that the government writes its own law and that the ruling coalition writes itself the rules of the game at the beginning of the term. At the end of the term of office, at the end of the election, when each, including the ruling party, takes little account of the possibility that after the elections it might land on the other bank and that it is therefore good for the opposition to provide space under the sun and at least a few possibilities for the implementation of critical supervisory functions. It is not good, therefore, that the Government Act and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are written for one term and are subject to daily policy. I know that these concerns are weightless and that it will be decided as it will be. Actually, I'm against it, one more vote. I'm concerned about the beginning of this term. For the rule of law and democracy are great goods, at least that's how I felt when I entered politics, great goods, which are very gentle and fragile, and blind to the roll of parliamentary power can easily overwhelm and crush us all - in the long term for sure; believe me, even at the expense of the ruling coalition. Despite my negative voice, the government will surely be confirmed. I would like Drnovskov's government to have more hearing in the field of education in the field of world-viewed breadth and plurality; in the field of health, more hearing for the needs of a small man in the countryside; for more hearing for basic health; in the state administration, less corruption and fewer lizards; and in collecting more fair and consistent taxes, etc. I want to, although eight years of experience does not allow me to have a firm hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Joseph Bernick. He'll get the word Rudolf Petan after him. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, candidates for Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! In the beginning, let me immediately mention that I am surprised that there is no longer any Prime Minister among us and not most candidates for ministers. I note that, in particular, those who have already been in previous governments do not seem to be interested in this debate, although it should be of interest to them. If you read the coalition contract, you'll see, at least I had that impression when I read it for the third or fourth time, with some changes and improvements. No wonder it's written like this because the authors of this coalition program are more or less the same. Today the eyes of the Slovenians are directed to this place here, in place and around the world. I will not go to the ministries where there is much to be mentioned, to mention further, but I would like to talk about a topic that is only in the title in the coalition contract, not in the text - attention to the Slovenes around the world. Everything since our independence - I will not talk about what was before - appears in more or less platonic frameworks this relationship and somehow repeats itself from year to year. So, this story goes through all LDS governments. I can say that we have nothing to promise or Slovenians around the world, in place, we have nothing to promise from this government. We formally had in previous governments an office for Slovenians in place and around the world at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We've always wondered why there, because the Slovenians around the world aren't strangers. That is exactly what the government, as well as Parliament, defines to some extent, to our people. We think they're strangers. Then there was the commission for Slovenians, both in place and in the world, here at the National Assembly. Now I understand that this commission will somehow be degraded to some kind of subcommittee of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Look, not even these two offices have worked so well so far. I'll tell you why. These two committees, or the Commission and the Office of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, are in mind. The country has never taken care to frame this problem in order to define Slovenia's attitude towards Slovenians around the world and that is why all this activity was in mind, and it is not possible to do so on such a complex issue. Nor has this been done, although we have repeatedly proposed that legislation be found in countries that have problems such as we, who have many displaced persons, and that we should try to create a framework in which all these activities would take place. Nothing happened. Another time. As you know, Article 3 of the Constitution of our country requires the adoption of a law on Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship. This has not moved anywhere since this constitution was proclaimed, although the World Slovenian Congress has sent here a bill. Nothing has happened, nor has it been said that this law is not sufficient, it needs to be fixed or anything. I'm pushing for this to be done. And of course, the commission for Slovenians, in place and around the world, has not moved this thing anywhere, although it is from this commission that it would be expected to start work within a legal framework. To this day, however, we have nothing. Look, it's a legal framework of work, relations, maps and everything for expatriates, for Slovenian people around the world. This group also includes the Citizenship Act, the Elections Act and the Voting Method and so on. It's all limping, and it would have to be fixed. There seems to be something else here - that this unemployment somehow coincides with a falling interest in essential Slovenian matters, Slovenian values and so on. And because of this, I am very concerned that you are a small supporter, such as ours, hoping to write off people around the world who, with their talents, could give much to our country, especially the younger generation, which is very educated today, has high functions and is very successful in various businesses and professions. We could be our good, as I would say, ambassadors to Slovenia in the world. Well, this government's got a lot of work to do. The work that should have been done in the last eight years is still here, and we should all be very conscientious about what this government is going to do, so that the next National Assembly will not face again some book that they will say, 'but I've already read it, it's 'deja-vu''. So, I appeal to the government, although there is almost one third of the candidates here, that this is also an idea and approach to some concrete and forward-looking plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Bernick. Before I give the floor to Mr Rudolph Petan - then he will be followed by a fellow Alojz Peterle - let me say that in your performance you mentioned the expectation that there will be candidates and candidates for ministers here with us all the time. Having understood the fact that we are now starting the fourth hour of debate and that, as we say, not once, we are not discussing in the most appropriate circumstances for this discussion, however, as is the case with most Members and Members, even on behalf of Parliament, I would have expressed the expectation that most of us, at least most of the candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers, would return and follow the debate. Comrade Rudolf Petan has a word, as it were, for Aloise Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr President, distinguished candidates for ministers and ministers! Greetings also apply to those who are not here at this time and, of course, to the Prime Minister. When I thought before the meeting about whether I should call, or should I even debate, given that the ruling majority has a strong two-thirds majority - we think differently, and we have the right to this opinion, as the thoughts of the largest party - I hope that they will not prescribe here, too, what we can think and that, if necessary, they can break the rules of procedure, break the constitution, ignore the rules of procedure, ignore the constitution, essentially act as some kind of roller. Of course, I was also guided by the idea that the iron repertoire of each democratic country includes the opposition, and the opposition is also a condition for democracy. And because, of course, I am also aware that in this iron repertoire, the opposition also has its task and its obligations, and this obligation is to take a critical view of the work of the ruling opposition and the ruling positions, to critically assess the government's work, to point out mistakes and, of course, irregularities. And since there have been a number of errors, irregularities, in this short time since the elections in the work of the ruling coalition, I think I need to come by and also point out these irregularities and these mistakes. Because I want to carry out this task of constructive opposition on my own as well as my colleagues from the party in good faith. And if I start with that first irregularity or a mistake that seems very important to me, because if this continues, then that could be quite a problem for our young democracy. Actually, I'm going to start by amending the government law, and I'm not going to talk about the content, and there's been a lot of talk about that. It's a procedure. It's a procedure. Because we know that procedure is also in this iron repertoire of democracy. In fact, I was very disturbed by this, and still bothers me, because it is still happening that the meeting of the working body at which this amendment of the law, i.e. the Committee on Internal Policy, was actually convened half an hour before the beginning of the meeting. This seems unacceptable to me because the rules of procedure are clear and I think that such speed can only be harmful. And given that this was not the only case, I would say that this voter, who operates in this national assembly, is not only a roller, but a racing roller, because there is a violation of the rules of procedure regarding the reference and how long earlier the meetings should have been convened. The same has happened with the very reference to the meeting of the National Assembly, but I do not think that this is all summers for the President of the National Assembly; it only flies on it as much as the party that is in the government and is a member of the ruling coalition and has to be subordinated to it or whatever - they will clear it themselves. The fact is that such a drastic violation of the Rules of Procedure has not yet taken place. As I said, the Rules of Procedure are clear, there are breaches of the Rules of Procedure, and I think that this continuation of the meeting's references is half an hour before the meeting itself. The announcement that there will be a meeting is not enough and it is not enough to learn from the media, that the next day a meeting of the National Assembly will be convened and that the National Assembly is not enough for me, but that the meeting should also be actually convened, must be a call, not just an announcement. That is how I think this is a well-intentioned warning of what would not be good for it to become a practice. This is a bad start for me, a bad pattern to continue, and it would be good to have a position, a real ruling majority, which, of course, has a two-thirds majority, to listen to the weak opposition. The fact is that this also points to a certain arrogance, a certain arrogant attitude of the ruling majority towards the opposition. It must be realized, however, that without the opposition there is no democracy, at least not good democracy. And let me be allowed, I only remember one example. During this time, many people in Slovenia gloat and enjoy the events of the American President's election. But the fact is, whoever wins, whoever wins, will only have a few hundred votes more than the one who loses, or if I can use the term that will be in the opposition in the 100 millionth election auditorium. It is said that the one who rules that the one who rules has only a small advantage. This is said, on the other hand, to take account of the fact that this is the only world power today, both after economic pay and after others, even after the political, military and any details of any area we assess, is the case. This is said to be no condition for a good development, for a good democracy a great overpowering position over the opposition. Therefore, it bothers me that today some people are still calling, give, be patient, be united in Parliament, do not fight in Parliament. That means for me some kind of one-brained. But Enoch is not well, and that is why I also mentioned this event from the United States, because there is progress when it is essentially one and the other, says those who are ruling, and those who are in the opposition are about as strong. Thus, it is not possible for someone with a cylindrical roller to overwhelm the thinking, the opinions, the attitude of the one who is in the minority. The fact is, there can be no good and rapid progress without democracy. I will not talk about what kind of pattern Eastern Europe has on this in the last 50 years, when this system, where not only has the opposition been driven somehow, the opposition has even been eliminated, the opposition has been a sin, the opposition has been banned, the opposition has been eliminated. And that is why it seems important for me to draw attention to this, because even today's vote, when we are almost all convinced that there have been certain breaches of the rules of procedure, the 60-20 vote, and quickly, this is the racing roller I was talking about. We probably can't stop it, that's the fact that these are the results of the elections. But it is the content of the work, and this is what I would like to point out that the opposition's thinking and the opposition's warning, as I have said, are, in our House at this moment, two-thirds against a bad-third, if one part is not defined. It is necessary for this two-thirds majority to listen to this humble opposition, which remains in this House; and this is our task, which we will only do consistently, and we will draw attention to mistakes. Another such serious example to be pointed out seems to me to be the humiliation of the opposition in the division and, above all, in the management of parliamentary working bodies. The fact is that the ruling coalition itself has proposed a way, a system of sharing governance, but when it comes to practice, it has somehow turned out differently. It was also an agreement that all working bodies have not the same weight; it is said that we cannot only talk about numbers, we also need to talk about value, about the weight of these individual working bodies. And here again, the ruling coalition played the roller, which overpowered the interests and also the proposals proposed by the ruling coalition itself. I hope that this will be improved, as the biggest party representative has said. Tose seems to me a poor traveller and a poor example of working in a democratic parliament, in a democratic country's parliament, or we must ask ourselves whether we are not as democratic and as legal as we would like to introduce ourselves. There's something else I think it's important to warn you. In presenting the candidates for ministers, we noticed that the candidates were very generous with promises. Perhaps we were sometimes surprised at what they promised, but only one of these candidates - this is the candidate who has a treasurer, that candidate who has a box of money - but he just said that everything the other candidates promised would be difficult to make or perhaps not even possible. So, there's only one of us who's poured clean wine. Now I don't know if I should say that the other issues were not so well-known, which, after all, we can't blame them, because they really can't know every detail, or maybe even try to deceive us. I'm not gonna judge what it is, I'm just giving options. The fact that one person has specifically told us what is waiting for us, that restrictions, including certain deletions of certain programs, may also be waiting for us, does not give me much confidence in the work of this suit. I don't think they're going to do what's right, but if that's what's going on, that's the thing to be warned about and that's worrying. This is not good for Slovenia, this is not good for the country and, of course, this is not good for Slovenians either. That's why I won't be able to support this suit. But it's true, and I admit it, I wish I was wrong. I would like this Minister of Finance to be wrong and that all the other candidates for ministers who made a lot of promises would be right. That's what I'd like. Given that even in the area I come from, we have a lot of projects to implement, of course, I will have to, and I will be forced to find out who was right, or a candidate for a finance minister or others. Speaking of which, when I'm probably gonna check in with them, they're gonna have to say whether it's money for these projects or not. Like I said, I wish I was wrong. Until I find out, of course, I have to believe what they said. They just said that financial coverage for everything they promised wouldn't, and that's why, of course, I won't be able to support this suit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Petan, in your performance you have also mentioned several times the violation of the Rules of Procedure and several times my responsibility in this, so allow me to explain two things. First of all, as far as the recall is concerned. On Friday, 24 November, at a consultation with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, we decided that this would be today. When the "hearings" were done, I had the opportunity to convene a business meeting - that's what I did. However, the time of today’s call was harmonised and no parliamentary group objected. Secondly, as regards infringement of the Rules of Procedure concerning today's decision on the list of ministers. Did any of the opposition colleagues ask at a committee meeting or a secretariat, or would today's decision constitute a violation? No, that's what I did, aware of my responsibility. Once again, the secretariat has made it very clear that today, when it decides on the list of candidates for ministers and ministers, it does not violate the rules of procedure. Therefore, I do not have a bad conscience as President that today the National Assembly is acting in violation of the rules to which it is bound. My friend Peterle has the floor. You want a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u56	Actually, it's not a replica. I'd just like to fill you in. I didn't mean today's session, but I thought it was happening when it was - it was - I also think it was Friday when we were adopting changes to the government law. At the time, what I said was true of the speedy reference. Actually, it was 20 minutes before the meeting, not just half an hour. Not for today, I'm not doing anything about today's session.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u57	Okay. Thank you very much. My colleague Peterle has the floor, Mr. Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Members and Members, candidates and candidates for a new government! I understood my parliamentary duty and my word to the electorate, so I had to draw attention to the purposes which do not have a basis in law when it comes to electing a government. I am talking about the government law, not the rules of procedure, because the government law is talking about how a mandate holder should act when proposing to ministers, and not about a partial government, I have explained this earlier, but about the government as a whole. And on the committees, Mr President, there was no place to be troubled by the behaviour of the Prime Minister, but it was about the candidates he had given. On the "hearings", which were not, of course, I would say, it is said, that there should have been a place about these things that were not, but should have been, because all candidates for government members should have been proposed, and of course there was no such possibility and we can only talk about it here, so I object to the argument or explain that no one on the committee has said anything. Now, because today has been repeatedly mentioned with a special emphasis that people have decided that way and that way. In order not to be mistaken, I would like a very clear word here as well. People have only decided which party will give the vote. So that no one would explain that they decided to do it and that coalition. Only the parties have decided, not the coalition. After all, the coalition could be different with this human will. And I have not been given any authority by my constituents to make any illegal decisions, so I insist that this coalition leads us into illegal decision-making. And I'm not asking the coalition to be generous, to offer it or to offer it. He's just offering, as she thinks, and we're supposed to be picking this out of this menu today, so to speak, a predetermined meal tomorrow, something else. I don't care about this monstrosity, and I'm not talking about generosity. I'm interested in legality. So I don't mind if this is a two-thirds majority, and this has turned out today, because whoever supports this government is certainly not the opposition. The opposition is only a coalition of Slovenia with two parties, one is Nova Slovenija, one is the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. This too needs to be made quite clear. If the parties here have publicly supported this coalition, I do not care whether they have special agreements or have a contract; they have supported this government, as they have previously supported the candidate gentleman for a term of office. I don't mind the word roller, I don't mind the style, the roller can roll, but either it's legal or you invent a bulldozer or I don't know what kind of fancy machines. And I'll say one more thing at the beginning, one general comment. I am very glad that this terrible slogan about the government's expertise was finally beaten in one of the Drnovsk governments. We have an area covered with no doubt with a profession or with the professional education of a ministerial candidate, which is unusual in this place. I am glad that this is so, because this means that Drnovšek takes politics as a criterion in his work and everywhere in normal democracy are ministers of political, not professional functions. The professional functions are secretaries, subcontractors, as well as state secretaries, and the Minister is a political responsibility, and from this point of view I welcome the choice in a sector that is at least unusual for the Slovenian situation, but talks about normalisation of the political view of the government's work. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I have a problem continuing. Actually, I don't know what else to add. In fact, if I come from what the prime minister or already elected Prime Minister has said, then I must say first that I did not have the impression that the Prime Minister is speaking to us, but a candidate for President of the State is speaking to us in two years' time. This is also set out in the Coalition Treaty that, after such a thing has happened, the next candidate must also be from the LDS; I have no objection to that. Look, if the Prime Minister is here, I'd say, well done, and I've got nice shows to love, and he tells us to be kind, to be, if only, better, to be more efficient, more quality, and more women to be political, against which you can't stand, against which you can't and you can't vote, because we're all good people, we're all for being better, efficient and so on. He talked to all the Slovenian audience, he didn't tell us what the government would do, but he advised us or he told us to give each other kind, better, more effective work. Let's just say I'd forgotten that, and I'd say, okay, I heard that at Mass on Sunday, but now I'm wondering what we're gonna do, what the Prime Minister is gonna say. I understand it's "public relations" that it's part of the propaganda. From this same party, we have other signals about what will happen in Slovenia, and I will talk about this. I am more concerned about taking together facts that are not going, or statements that do not go together. I wrote down a literal quote from the Prime Minister, who last told us that the situation was very serious. And of course we accept this again; it is hard to say that the situation is not serious, not all things are arranged. Let's forget who's been on the government for eight years. But today the Prime Minister said it is time for Slovenia to become a truly modern country. I have to stop here. Here, however, I think that Mr President has admitted that we have not gone in the direction of a real, modern and democratic state in these eight years. Which I've been alerting, not the only one in the opposition benches, a series of years. So it is a little distasteful that those responsible for everything in eight years explain to us that the situation is clear, that we need to improve, that we need to be good and that we need to start working now. After two years, I understand that, or after one year, the Prime Minister will run for President of the State, because this position can also be with the LDS, so that there is nothing wrong with it. What will we do, ladies and gentlemen, is to ask what the Prime Minister will do, which is said to run for president of the country. For two years there will be no action to solve the problems that are open, some for eight years. Because the Prime Minister and his team will only work on nice things. This means that we will be even more obliged not to take the austerity measures initiated by the Bajuk government, not to talk much about the financial holes, maybe sell to Telekom, because there is a last bag of money in that country, from which certain holes can be covered by the government's work, or the former ministers or current candidates for ministers. I warn you, ladies and gentlemen, or the new government, don't just count on Telekom. I have been in this government for months now, and every week we have received a different report from the Ministry of Finance on holes. Every week, they discovered something else missing in this cash register, how much money they had in them. For a time we were talking only about different numbers, as planned at the beginning of the year for expenditure, then they slowly realized that even a few ten billion in revenue would be too small, saying that the issue would be even bigger. On this, ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister, the new government mandate-holder, has told us nothing. He said to laugh, to be nice. That is why I say that this is the speech of the candidate for the president of the country in two years, not the response to the challenges of time, which is strongly determined by how the three Drnovsk governments ruled over these eight years. Mr President said nothing about poverty, he said nothing about legality, and I am concerned about this huge difference in the view of legality between the Bajuk government and between this next government, which will undoubtedly, in spite of the law, be elected today. I'm really worried about that difference. The President of the country said nothing today about agreements - we are now a little in the foreign policy area. I do not know if what was not available in the previous term and the government has broken the issue with the partners with whom it is once again, matters under the three agreements and has imposed this on Parliament if Parliament has not adopted them. I hope that we will have at least this mandate, and that this has not worked on a number of occasions, the same coalition in the government and the same in Parliament. If not, the government will once again propose agreements with Croatia, Austria, the Holy Headquarters and they will fall in Parliament. And I would like to know whether the coalition is united in that these things, which were reportedly already resolved in the negotiations, will bring through; and this is not a cough. Mr President said nothing about why he hadn't smoked heroin in years, which is being smoked all over the world, and the warehouse is full to the top. The police have been very successful and have also picked up a lot of these in this mandate. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u59	I'm asking for peace in the hall. Comrade Peterle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u60	the matter. [[...]] And I hope that the government, the Bajuk government, will be able to work out this matter. That's the question I'm worried about. The president won't even mention it. I'm not going to talk about quantities I know aren't small. See, public finances, ladies and gentlemen, public finances are one of the key issues that will not only be faced by this government, as this government can go almost to the same people in relation to public finances as it has done for eight years. The key people will be the same in this government, the ones who tell us that we really have to start now. I have not heard from Mr President that I would today take a position to take over the relationship of corruption which has been very effectively pursued by this government. He did not say anything about grants, which were very quickly distributed shortly before the resignation or the end of the third Drnovški government; that is not the problem. No talk on how these matters relate to state aid and so on. There is no talk of one paying taxes, but one of them is not being paid through public scrutiny, and this is about the billions we talked about, in those companies where young people have money, not in small craftsmen, farmers and so on, or entrepreneurs. That's not what this is about. This is where we hear things about India Kormandia. Next thing. For the first time, I say, public finances are a key issue that will have to be solved, even if we want to join the European Union, because we will not get there with such imprudent finances; but I am not talking now about the deficit in the state budget produced by Drnovskov's government four times in 1996 and the legacy it left at the beginning of June, of course, has not been able to recover in five or six months, and this same government will find its own mountainland, not ours, we have saved at least a few billion, despite drought and other problems. Then the state administration. Ladies and gentlemen, who read the reports of the European Commission, this has seen that this has been the issue, the real lack of reform will in this area is highlighted in every report of the European Commission so far. The President here sees no problem, and if eight years is almost nothing done, and if not the laws that the Bajuk government put in the package before Parliament was disbanded, so if it is not now going to adopt legislation in this area, the next report will be one way or another worse, and who knows what the legality of the functioning of the state administration is, he knows how difficult and long-lasting preparations are for you to make a difference here. So so far there have simply been no serious interventions on this important area of social life or power, and I allow myself to ask myself with a calm conscience publicly whether those who did not want to do anything will now do it all together in a short time. I don't believe it or have the right not to believe it. Then it's education. Look, I was really expecting today because I assume that the president and his team are monitoring certain things, that he will say something about modern illiteracy in Slovenia. That study that we have already mentioned in this house, which is a comparative study on different types of literacy and concerns a larger number of countries, there we are very much at the bottom, very weak and the President nothing about it. I say, public finances, state administration, education are the key things that should be taken seriously, but they will be caught by those who have not shown the will to make any difference here. That is why I do not expect transparency in public finances, I expect to continue to grant grants and continue the policy of appearance, which will speak to Brussels one way and work at home another. Since I have already mentioned Brussels, I would like to say something else on the subject of European affairs. Look, we have actually contributed to rationalisation in these few months and worked with the minister or with two less ministers. There was no Minister for European Affairs and Minister for Local Self-Government. And it is now being introduced again because there are such internal needs in the party, once again the Minister without a charter for European affairs, because they are the parliament of another need, and the European Affairs Commission is lifting. Wrong world. I am saying this because I know that in the candidate countries there is a system that knows the European Commissions as well as we do, but they do not know the European Minister everywhere. So, of course, this minister will not now have an interlocutor in Parliament, in a special working body, for which I have found that he needs at least one session per week, not a rare meeting of the International Affairs Committee, which has other things. Now it's going to be concentrated again, it's going to be one fevd again, and then we're going to end up on some subcommittees or subcommittees, and so on and so forth and mercifully, the LDS will offer if someone takes over a subcommittee. Thank you very much, gentlemen. And I am reminding myself in this regard of the monopoly of foreign policy functions that one party can afford in this coalition; I will not moralise on those who have supported it. Okay. You think it's okay, but that one party has the head of government, the foreign minister, the European Minister, the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Association Committee, such as this party's fidelity, five key foreign policy functions are in the hands of one party. I can't support it because I'm a Democrat, you know. And I don't care in the foreign policy field either. Then I'd like to say the following. In the Slovenian foreign policy debate on the issue of approaching or entering the European Union, we had a few more in-depth discussions on topics that had opened up at the time. So, the issue of land sales, identity, language, culture. Today, when all the European Union, including the candidate countries, is ahead of the Intergovernmental Conference in Nice and before the continuation of this process, which is already called the 'post of Nice', so there is no political expression on the vision and strategy of future European development, I would also like to take this opportunity to do so - in particular, I will propose to the Committee on International Relations - that we start this debate again. And that our conversational partners here will get the impression that there is some will. I would like to be as unanimous as possible, not only about what everyone in the candidate countries can say that each country must have its own Commissioner. Today, we need to know or to have something more ahead of us. Today, visits ask us how we can see the whole, not only how we will introduce protective transitional regimes and so on. And today this debate in Slovenia is almost gone. Not inside the customers, just among the customers. But since that is the monopolistic will, there must not be a European Commission which would be an eminent place to debate this matter there. And I can't imagine what the meetings of the Committee on International Relations will look like, which, by the way, already has enough other issues. I'm on my way, ladies and gentlemen. Look, I would expect the president to say something about double criteria in Slovenia. If it is a true coalition, it is a state of consent, if it is considered to be wrong by some, it is a country of unanimity. Look, this kind of polarism and double standards will have to be stopped in this country if we are to have a consensus on key issues. But not to preach consent just about everything and at the same time. No country has a consensus on everything. However, it would be good to consider now what our agreement on the European Union is from here on out. This has been the case, but now key decisions are coming and it will have to be said what Slovenia wants. Look, there's something else I'd like to say in the end. I said earlier that the president was talking well, he turned out well, but of course we have other terms, and I'm more careful about those, and I take them more seriously. The eminent representative, or member of the LDS, Mr Šetinc, wrote in one of Ljubljana's journals about "the whip of God". He didn't write about "the roller coaster," but he said he'd have to use "the whip of God." So I believe it more than those words about kindness and I fear in such a relationship of forces that there will be a modern, democratic state of mind led by the leading or party of the relative majority, named LDS, and this thing can go along a path called "who will not be with us will be hurt". That's how I understood the Whip of God. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Comrade Peterle. My friend Sasha Pece wants to replicate your performance. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I understand it hurts to lose one's position. Pain, unfortunately, sometimes also causes a person to think rashly. Sadly, though, a person with an unreasonable way of thinking becomes a judge because he determines who is the position and who is the opposition. There was a period when this same national assembly met with two key, so far crucial, namely the appointment of mandate holders or the election of a mandate holder and the proposal for a government law. In my opinion, according to the conduct of the entire national assembly, at the moment we voted on the mandate-holder and when we voted on the government law, you were not, Mr Peterle, the village that you are playing today. You weren't there. Today you hope to criticize or hope to talk about being the only opposition in this national assembly. Please! What the opposition is that you do not even hope to come and express the power you have as a Member and vote against it. No, you'd rather back off at the most crucial moments of the establishment of this national council. I'm asking you nicely, or I'm going to say so, not because of your words, but because today, frankly, is a television broadcast. That's all I wanted to explain. Otherwise, I believe you have your opinion and will insist on it, and I believe that this is due to the loss of a position you once had. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Comrade Peterle has a replica, he also wants to replicate colleague Jerovšek, colleague of Rupar. I ask that the replicas do not distance themselves from the subject of today's debate, which is one way or another, this is the appointment of a government. First, I give my word to my colleague Peterlet. Each one has a maximum of five minutes for the replica. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u64	Mr President, I will not take five minutes to take advantage of this debate because I do not want to prolong it, and I will undoubtedly hold on to it. As a Democrat, I was taught that if the leader of a party's parliamentary group publicly declares that the party will support the government, then I cannot count it as an opposition, not on any principle. As for obstruction, Mr Peče, read the rules of procedure in which this right is given to the opposition party to express its political will as well. We have expressed this in the way that the Rules of Procedure permit it, and we have done as we have done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u65	I'm asking for peace in the hall. Now we have three replicas - all three please for a short performance - first colleague Jerovšek, behind him colleague Rupar and, as I see, colleague Pece wants an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u66	Thank you very much. It stung and, in fact, a frightening performance by Mr Pečet in that sequence, when I think he stressed several times, "and Mr Peterle, you are hoping to speak." What a spirit to move into this national assembly! In fact, these are the words and dictions of Visinsky. Indeed, I hope that we are not yet so far away that Members of the National Assembly in the National Assembly would not be able to speak. I hope that Mr Sašo Pece will apologize that this was at least a "lapsus lingue" and that he does not stand for it, because if anyone else comes here with warnings and warnings, "how do you hope to speak"; so far, in the previous term, we have not experienced such a thing. This is probably the result of this coalition and an extended coalition with members of the Slovenian National Party that they believe that there is no more place where Members can speak. If Mr Sašo Peče does not deny this and actually apologizes to all the members of the National Assembly, then this will sound very ominous and echoing throughout this building and I hope that in the Slovenian public too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u67	Thank you very much. My colleague Rupar wishes to have an explanation, followed by Mr Pece and Mr Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Sasha Peckett. So, the attitude towards the man who has achieved more in life has done more, perhaps more experienced and educated, in the tone you have given him, Mr Pece, is not acceptable. In particular, it is not permissible for a colleague, a colleague in the National Assembly. I would like to warn you that an electoral campaign with a populist turnout has passed that this national assembly has been given the opportunity to express its opinion by all countries, both the position and the opposition with all legitimate and legal elections. That's why I would ask nicely - look, you don't know whether you're a position or an opposition, you're one, you're another, whatever you're doing, that's how you react. At least the attitude towards the fellow man can still be at the MP level, not at the kid's level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Pache now has another word. Article 70 gives the President the right to intervene, if any, outside the context of the replicas. So I would ask that in replicas we limit ourselves to the subject of today's debate. My colleague Peca and his colleague Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u70	This is the last time I've heard from a lineup. I've always stood by my words, and this time I will, and since I said that I was standing or that now it's my last replica, I'd just say, "Dogs bark, caravan goes on."
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u71	I think it would be good to move away from words that someone might consider inappropriate. Mr Barovich has the floor. It's the last reported replica. Good. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u72	Dear colleagues! I don't want to have a class right now. Trained, experienced colleagues certainly know much. It surprises me that sometimes not and for me, for example, if I am fresh and I apologize if I think wrong, the opposition is the party that has not signed any agreement or government coalition and is outside this coalition. If, however, respected gentlemen, man thinks with his head and adheres to Article 82 of the Constitution, which says that Members are representatives of all the people and are not bound to any instructions, we also have the right to use our head and vote within the parliamentary group and one swallow does not yet bring spring. I would just like to reiterate that at the two most important meetings, we were the only representatives who were present, who were willing, opposition, also by voting against the mandate-holder and against the adoption of a proposal for a new law on government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u73	I would like to invite Members and Members to conclude this exchange of views now with the replica of my colleague Jerovska and to give the five who have been reported an opportunity to conclude the debate. Please, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u74	Mr. President! Since Mr. Pache couldn't be brave enough to apologize and say that he could have made a mistake and that he was wrong to say that it was a lapsus when he spoke to the diction twice and you, sir, are you hoping to speak? I ask you, as President of the National Assembly here, to say that this threat, this threat by MrPeče, is not part of the policy of this coalition, and to ensure that the word that Mr Peče has gone through permitted, through the framework of political democracy and all these positive standards, and that you, with the authority of the President of the National Assembly, ensure that no Member is afraid to speak here in the National Assembly. However, since Mr Pache failed to do so, I hope that he has never dealt with decay in his life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u75	My colleague Jerovšek, as chairman, I have a duty to keep an eye on four things. First, I give my word in order to give it right. Secondly, to give everyone the same time laid down in the Rules of Procedure a third time that there are no objections in the performances, if they are, and for the fourth time that I am leading the discussion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The performance of Comrade Pečet may have been politically unacceptable to someone, but at least in the statement you are making, I could not accept him as offensive. I took the second part of his performance as an insult and asked him to withdraw. It's an integral part of this lively controversy. I do not consider this to be an insult, and as President, I do not have the right to ask him to do so. Mr Pukšič asked for the floor. And once again, even to colleagues who are not here, four more will speak after him, and then we will go to the vote. Please, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr President, first of all, I must say that I am actually disturbed and somehow not used to sitting behind people and talking, or talking and sitting behind my back. I don't know why it's being disabled or not allowing this to be done for a payphone. However, as far as I'm concerned, I'd like to ask if I have the opportunity to continue speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u77	Look. It was an agreement that all those who do not perform or act as representatives of the groups of Members, the possibility and the right, as well as the duty, to perform from the benches. May I remind you, my dear fellow, that we will also speak from the bench in the new Chamber of the National Assembly, and that this is in fact a custom which is in the tradition of parliaments, which we want to be partners with tomorrow. So please, if you're so kind as to speak like everyone else from the bench. This, as it is said, will also be a custom that we will adopt by our conduct in the new Hall of the National Assembly. Please, buddy Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u78	Thank you very much for explaining. Although, of course, I hope that the conditions for work will be slightly different in the new Chamber, and given that there are really no conditions for normal work in this Chamber, it would certainly make sense for me to be allowed to speak behind the phone. And since I don't have that option, of course I'm going to continue here from this bench. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings to many ministers, candidates for ministers and ministers. I hope the Slovenian public sees them now. But not on the entire team, as proposed by Prime Minister Drnovšek, and also my greeting to Mr. Prime Minister Drnovšk, wherever he is. Of course, it would be true, in my profound belief, that he would be present in the Chamber at the time of the formation and election of the government. Mr President, I will, of course, continue with the bench. I would also ask if you would provide me with conditions on one side, because, of course, it is not most appropriate for me to listen to something else with my right ear, but, of course, I would like to say it myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u79	Comrade Pukšič, we are about to begin the fifth hour of debate, and I hope that this is not just my assessment that we are all doing our best, that there is actually relative peace here and the possibility for any debater to be heard. I think these conditions apply to you too. They're, like, ungrateful right now, but maybe we'll be going to a new hall next month. This time I ask you, too, for patience, and all other colleagues, of course, to listen quietly to his performance. Comrade Pukšič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u80	Well, I hope my performance doesn't come out so we'll be interrupted ten times during our work, but I'll try to continue. The start of the work of the newly elected Parliament and the first meeting of the KVIAZ, the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission began with a proposal to reduce the number of working bodies and the number of members in working bodies. For such a decision, it was 13 votes for the United List, Liberal Democracy and DeSUS. So, with 13 votes in favour of 22 members of this working body, of course, this was voted. This was in fact imposed at the first working-body meeting and accompanied by other non-conformity groups, at least to the extent that certain matters need to be considered and may be postponed to the next meeting. But that didn't happen. The power of the three-member coalition was, of course, large enough and they did. Well, the division of labour bodies or the chairmanship of certain working bodies in the negotiations led by Mr Podobnik was, of course, in view of the percentage achieved by the Slovenian Coalition in the last elections, such that these two parties belong to five presidential seats. Of this, it is already further defined by the Rules of Procedure that there are two heads of two presidential posts, this is the control of the budget and public finances and the control of the intelligence and security services - the positions of the opposition. We have three remaining, so to speak, for which we were able to negotiate or discuss, that is to say, for the management of three jobs, three working bodies, on which no other party has been nominated from the working bodies as a Social Democratic Party, so there are only two left. In the case of these two parties, as the other party did not put up the ultimates: only this and nothing else, but she wanted a choice between the two working bodies. Neither one nor the other in the context of the Slovenian Coalition was offered this, they were variants; either one or the other, and of course, we did not agree to such a toy. This was why Members of the Social Democratic Party and Members of the New Slovenia did not participate in the 1st meeting of the National Assembly when the Prime Minister was elected and when the Government Act was passed. Of course, the adoption of a government law does not speak or bring [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u81	Peace in the hall, please. Comrade Pukšič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u82	does not bring rationalisation according to the law we received from the previous Bajuk government in the previous reference. [[...]] If such a law had been adopted in the previous reference, it would indeed have meant rationalisation. In view of the presentation in the individual working bodies and in view of a few words of the Prime Minister, such a government coalition will lead Slovenia with such a ministerial team along the path of developing democracy, integrating into integration, NATO, the European Community and so on, I do not really believe. The reasons are something. She has shown what she can and can do in her reign since 1992. However, today's team, which is composed as presented by Dr. Drnovšek, does not have any ministers from Styria or Prekmurje in its composition. However, this would be more than strictly necessary. Out of the eighth constituency, five Members have a liberal democracy, and I am deeply convinced that a member of the eighth constituency is at least one suitable - so at least one of these quotas - for the occupation of a ministerial position. Moreover, if this had happened, we would have received in the eighth constituency also from the eleventh constituency called Haloza, a Member of Parliament -- that is, this same-name party, liberal democracy -- which would have been very much needed, because this would have been provided in liberal democracy to explain, said someone from Haloz was trying to explain why and how it was actually living in this area. In fact, this is also the area of the congregation or congregations that have not yet seen the water supply or the water supply, or drinking water, in this area. Finally, it is the area of the Slovenian Mountains, Haloz, Ptujsko-Dravsko Polje, if you want Styria and Prekmurje, the area with the highest unemployment, and the area where income per inhabitant is the lowest. In short, all indicators of the negative functioning of centralisation with a team that is also centralised from the central Ljubljana region are, of course, the result of all this. It is frightening that less than 50% of gross domestic product is thus generated outside the central Ljubljana region. Slovenia is actually too small to afford such a one-sided centralised development. Unfortunately, even worse than it has been so far, some parts of the coalition treaty show, although Mr Drnovšek has not spoken and said what this government will actually do, but what it will not, or about 200 laws, which are now proposed in the National Assembly, will therefore reject more than half of these laws. I wonder why she will reject the law on additional co-financing of the construction of primary schools. It is also apparent from the last collection of data from primary schools, where investments are still needed, that many primary schools today have suitable spaces, and many of them are, of course, not yet. Many children in Slovenia today do not have any room for sports education and, of course, there is no possibility of doing so. This law would also allow matters to be completed more quickly in this area. Last but not least in the demographicly threatened areas, these people who live in these areas, but we know that in Slovenia there is about one third of the population in about two-thirds of our country's area, it is imperative that they get at least the basic elements of life in these areas, such as safe, comparable primary education, education conditions and, of course, some infrastructure, among them - we will have to give you the right - that water is one of the important things. The other thing that this coalition will not adopt is the law on the provinces, which states in its work that before the entry into force of the law, the National Assembly will amend the relevant legislative acts and abolish the envisaged agreement of the municipalities for the transfer of individual tasks. Yes, so little, so little of the rights actually enjoyed by the municipalities, will the State Assembly want to abolish some of the powers of the municipalities and automatically transfer them to the institution of the province, which it will thus administratively designate in the offices. Is this also a prediction of the abolition of some Slovene municipalities, what was already intended in the previous coalition before 1998? It says that this coalition will not support the law on the gradual replacement of asbestos cement pipes in the water supply infrastructure. Mistake! These pipes need to be replaced and the adoption of such a law, which will allow this, needs to be adopted. The coalition said it would not support the law on increasing employment in municipalities with an average unemployment rate. Colleagues and colleagues, tell us what you're going to do with these citizens. Of course, it is easier to control them if you have them unemployed and naked and barefoot, as they are called. I think it is wrong for the coalition not to support the law on the transfer of assets from former socio-political organisations to the funds of local communities. It is also wrong if the coalition does not support what it has written in its coalition contract on the Education Chamber of Slovenia. Given that I was at the "hearing" of the candidate for the Minister of Education and, thank God, at least there she did not speak so restrictively, but gave the opportunity to coordinate this law on the Education Chamber, which obviously means - or I hope it means - that it will not, as is the custom of this coalition, by voting of course, reject the law. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Community Financing - the Coalition Treaty states that the coalition will reject the law after the government proposes its new Law on Community Financing. All right, but this time I would like the coalition to propose such a law on the financing of municipalities that will not fall in the Constitutional Court. The Coalition of Liberal Democracy and the Slovenian People's Party has proposed a law amending the financing of municipalities, one which, thank God, fell in the Constitutional Court because such as was adopted did not guarantee the performance, performance of the tasks of municipalities which are required under the Constitution and law to carry out certain tasks. Of course, I believe that again with such a change of law, she will try to cut into the new smaller congregations, in the congregations of a demographically threatened area. Like then, if this happens, I will take on my maximum engagement and warning to the Slovenian public what is actually coming. I don't know where the coalition saw so many shortcomings in the law on scholarships, which it intends to reject, proposed by my former fellow Member, Mr Mežan, Chairman of the Committee on Education, Culture and Sport. I think that in the area of scholarship there is much more to be done, much more to be done also in the construction of student homes and significantly more to be done in the area of tax collection in those individuals who, at the time when the apartments were sold out, "shocked" - and if I say the word stolen, I will not say anything wrong - at the time of the adopted law around the apartments, when some for several thousand years they were buying a few apartments, not only those in which they were dwellings and thus were solving their housing problem - it was not a problem, it was normal; but it was abnormal that they were buying more apartments and, of course, today on the market for astronomical prices they are selling, but if they are not selling, there are students who are renting them, but who are paying them astronomically, and no one is also controlling it, because everything goes without registering home because they are not paying taxes, because they are not selling them, because they are not selling them, because they are not selling them are not selling them, because they are not selling them, because they are not hoping to apply enough to the students. However, in the event that a Member helps such a student to spend some night, it is characterized as not knowing what is negative in this association. Of course, that's incomprehensible. And unfortunately, that's what's going on.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u83	For a little more concentration on the show, please. Here, you have the floor, and I ask everyone else not to disturb you and to show you peace of mind. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u84	Well, and given that Drnovškova - that is, Mr Drnovšek, the Prime Minister did not decide on the composition of the ministerial team in such a way that any minister from Styria or Prekmurje would, of course, be clear to me, I understand that the coalition will also reject the law on the provision of funds to promote coherent regional development in an area with special development needs, as tabled by a former fellow Member, colleague of Lucica. It's just a few of the systemic errors that this coalition makes before it took up its positions. However, it is true that this is actually a continuation of the already paved way, as it has unfortunately done in the last eight years. Believe me, as an opposition Member, as I have always been, in my previous term, except for the last few months. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u85	Ministers, future. Please, you have the floor. Please don't bother anyone during the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u86	monitor and monitor what will happen to our young schooling youth, to watch and monitor how people will live and work in a demographically threatened area, from workers to farmers, to care about how some socially disadvantaged groups and, of course, those with the smallest pensions will survive. [[...]] I hope that someone here will feel the need to wake up, what we already wanted in the previous term, an absolute increase in pensions, not a percentage, because in time we would allow those who have the lowest pensions to grow slightly faster or to fall behind. Last but not least, I would like to see the adoption of the Media Act as a place for national television to be able to broadcast or for citizens and citizens to have the opportunity to monitor the meetings of the national assembly of all and in full, because it is only then that citizens and citizens would see what is actually going on in the national assembly, what certain positions are being represented here and, of course, when pre-election rallies are. Some Members would also see and hear when they ask for parliamentary immunity to hide from responsibility for crimes even when they were not Members. And in such a case, of course, I believe, the image between the position and the opposition in the next elections would also be significantly more crystallized and pure. It would be appropriate for Slovenians and Slovenians to have this opportunity throughout the mandate period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u87	Thank you very much. It is understandable that after half-past hours of uninterrupted debates, concentration is falling, but it seems to me that all colleagues who receive the word have the same opportunity to express their views. Therefore, I ask all of you to listen as much as possible to the gathering as possible, and above all to the candidates for ministers and ministers. They must show respect for this high house before the national assembly. Four more have the floor. First a colleague of Peca, after him a colleague of Jerovšek, Kelemina and Rupar. There are no other applications. Comrade Peca, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u88	Thank you for saying so, President. As a member of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group - opposition parties, those who are ascribed to a number of people today, and if I start with the opposition, have just shown opposition attitude. Today we have reached an element on which the mandate-holder has already been confirmed. We opposed this in the Slovenian National Party because we were convinced that there was a better alternative. So this is where we draw the line. This is where it needs to be built again. Today, at least in our opinion, the time has come for us to try to gain time at this time to support the proposed ministers and ministers. Because they are ahead of Slovenia or because they are rooted in front of Slovenia and the great economic and economic measures that are urgently needed if we are to reach the green branch. No matter who's forming the government today, no matter who the opposition is. I think that all of us who have tried to join the National Assembly have been in this opinion before the elections, and it is regrettable that today we are so much more neglectful of this view, that we are leaving so much more of an economic problem aside and that for some time there has been a debate in this room, in this Chamber a judge around the opposition membership and not around the projects presented by the candidates for ministers at their hearings. In the Slovenian National Party, as already stated by the leader of the delegation of Zmago Jelinčič, who put them primarily on Primorsko, and by his colleague Barovic, who presented those main points for his environment, Zasavje; therefore, the important points that have been highlighted by the candidates for ministers, he commended them and, on the other hand, pointed out their shortcomings, I could only ask from this place and, in this case, I think that the most - or asked, appealed to the Minister, Minister of Economy Teo Petrin, if, in his mandate today, if he is elected - and I believe - he will try to change the practice so far - let's say the rule of liberal democracy, and he tries to introduce other cities, not only Ljubljana, especially Maribor. Here is my appeal to you to do our best, and we are giving you this power by voting today, also to other places where it is powered, from where it comes from, so power for the centre of Ljubljana. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Three other colleagues have the floor to the end. First, my friend Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, we have heard from the Prime Minister's explanation that it is his intention to make a country as friendly as possible for the people through the candidates and through his proposal for a ministerial list. If this were not to begin today in a symbolic way that this government would be blubbering into legislation, perhaps we could believe that this is the only purpose. Unfortunately, however, it has begun as it has, and also the establishment, of the formation of a government that we can think of. In my opinion, the Slovenian proverb "Many grandmothers, a bald child" is valid. The way this government was formed has proved much. He has shown much about this coalition and satellite parties and has shown much to the Slovenian public, even in the sense that they do not hold a smug explanation of how this human and professionally strong coalition is. On the contrary. However, this coalition has proved to be one weak human potential. [[...]] [[Not included.]] Very weak, otherwise it would not have happened that there would have been so many names in the towers and also actually been circulated that new names would have appeared every day; and in fact, in this case, perhaps very eminent individuals, experts in some areas would have accepted the management of the resources. [[...]] However, I believe that the Prime Minister had a problem with this. For the first time, he complained publicly about some of the grandmothers who tried to help him, of course, under the ban. He said very explicitly that some of the paid columnists from his client were working for other camps. This is a very important fact that the Prime Minister has in fact pointed to some, so to speak, mercenaries. However, because we are a constructive opposition and if I want to be constructive, I must commend the Prime Minister on another matter. It is very important that such a high policy has shown that one party in its coalition does not meet the criteria by which it was actually a political party. He showed this by his way of dealing with DeSUS, which he allegedly put outside the law. This made it very clear and explicit that this party is a transmission of completely different interests; that the establishment of this party was a completely different function. And by this statement, Mr Drnovšek and the way he dealt with it actually pointed to the right face of this party. This showed that candidates, potential candidates of DeSUS, who were very strongly and clearly rejected, were not actually candidates, would not be candidates of this generation structure or of this narrow leadership of this party, but would be people who would be delegated from a completely different centre. And I think it makes sense that he avoided the possibility that his government would fail in the way Troy failed to be led into the city by something else. Given all these problems, all these grandmothers, the result is the way it is. I must say that I regret that he did not retain Dr Kolareva in the government, for one simple reason - partly because of professional solidarity, because chemists are known for their rationality and their contribution to politics is generally very useful - here I refer only to Mrs Thatcher's example, which was also a chemist - and I hope that Mrs Kolareva would play a slightly smaller role, but a good, constructive role in Drnovšk's government than that of Mrs Thatcher's Island. [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u91	Please! I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u92	Now, after these observations about the composition of the government, I would like to say a few words about the candidates and their programmes and the way it was presented. I have listened well to the statements made by the candidate for Minister of the Interior, Dr. Bohintz. It seemed to me quite frantically that the question of whether, with the strong success of the police in the last time it broke -- let's say -- this association, the mafia association with trafficking in human beings, with the refugees, when it discovered corruption, followed that, in at least one segment of the state administration -- which is caught up in the very humane structure of this coalition -- these powerful corruption cases would begin to be solved. Mr Jelinčič earlier stated that it was a multi-billion-dollar issue, which also financed political parties for the elections. This should be the basic leadership of the Minister of the Interior. Sports logic has never changed the team that wins, but he couldn't do it. Because it's obvious that cleanliness is already in place at all levels. And that it will try to put these corruption issues under the carpet, that such people will be set up, that these maps will be closed and that in the background they can work peacefully and also elude the country in a way like this, which is certainly the top of the iceberg. In fact, the Slovenian public knows that in these eight years many have been made in a way that should not have been in a legal and democratic state. This problem is also related to the problem of the candidate for the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Here I would expect the Prime Minister, and also the candidate herself, to take into account in the democratic world an indisputable and absolutely absolute rule of objective responsibility. I'm not talking about subjective, I believe she's not. However, in the face of such a serious affair, in the face of such severe corruption, I do not think that there would be a case in Europe where the Minister of Justice would not have felt that it was an objective responsibility. However, something was happening, in some kind of mandate, and this same candidate is coming into a new game, and here it is, I think, humiliating for the country to make such a proposal - due to the objective responsibility I say again - appear. It is also important to consider how this could have been achieved in this disclosure of corruption cases and in these nominations. It would also, of course, be necessary for the Minister of the Interior to show, in fact, that he is grateful to the current leadership for avoiding politics. To exclude politics and without it - it will restore even political leadership, which will worship political parties, as was the case with Minister Bandlje, then it will not be possible to further detect both parental associations, nor corruption, nor other cases of organised crime, but especially the crime of white collars. I am afraid that this Minister of the Interior - whether he has instructions that he will not be able to do so or is not prepared to do so in fact. This is said to be a sharp course of changes, and in fact, cleaning is being prepared. I don't know how this is going to turn into a cellophane. So far, it's been rolling forward that it's mostly professional. This police leadership has shown expertise, but it is likely that his death sentence will be based on expertise. I was also at the "hearing" for the Minister for European Affairs, in fact, surprised that the European Union's report highlighted only the need to work on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and noted only the slowness of our legislative procedures. This is to some extent true, but: by whose merit and why. The new coalition will remove everything, reject all proposals that are in the procedure it has prepared and tabled by the Bajuk government. Even though these are proposals made by the previous Drnovskov government, but not smelling after the previous government, it will reject them and thereby extend the legislative procedures and then force new revelations out of Europe, that the rules of procedure need to be changed and that this needs to be changed so that it can silence the opposition. This intention was so clearly expressed on that "hearing" that it was frantic that the minister's candidate could not wrap it into a more diplomatic language. It is also clear from the paragraph of the Coalition Treaty on the tasks of approximation to the European Union that the new coalition will sacrifice the Slovenian farmer for curing the European Union and even more, it will sacrifice a lot more and will also try to do well with programmes in agriculture that will be environmentally oriented. This is of course positive, but sacrificing everything to the account- mainly the countryside and the Slovenian farmer - is unacceptable. A candidate for the Foreign Minister has also been presented on the same Committee on International Relations. Unfortunately, he could not ensure that foreign policy was strategically managed and created by the government, as is the case with our political system. On the explicit question of how many foreign ministers the government will have, it could not ensure that it has an external minister who has this formal function. Similar matters, similar movements are also promised in some other ministries. Here on the table, I passed a report from the interview of the candidate for Minister of Education. I think it's a restaurant of everything that was plebistic this year. Despite all the efforts, media and all that, this is obviously how we are expected to score again in primary schools, even though, for example, a candidate for liberal democracy in my constituency at the hearing said he was happy that this torture of the child was being abolished. A candidate for liberal democracy said it was child torture! Now, Dr. Chokovo's candidate would also ask if she would make any changes in the classification of teachers in political classes? He is aware of what caused it to be a policy: parts and rule.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u93	You can't ask questions anymore. You can't ask any more questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u94	That's a rhetorical question. In fact, at the time, some teachers wrote that the Ministry’s direction under the then direction of the Ministry in the chambers had led to hatred and anger. The teacher wrote that such a teacher could not be a teacher at the same time. This is a fact and I have not seen any positive developments in this area being prepared or envisaged. On the contrary. It seems to be a complete restaurant of anti-teaching anti-teachers against students, and the essence of this is the prediction of cleaning up those personnel who advocate an actual plural school. As it has already been found here, the candidate for the Minister of Health has agreed to centralisation, the abolition of basic health care and through it -- not only through this -- the candidacy is frantic. This government may make people a friendly country, but only in the capital; everything is directed only to the capital, only to the "noblesse" and the brilliance of Ljubljana. The periphery, including Maribor, has been abandoned and abandoned. Madam candidates and candidates, I do not think this country will be able to lead. You will lead it to pluralisation based on poverty, not on development. And it is not a coincidence that the Ministry of Technology and Science has also been abolished - I am turning it on purpose. In fact, when Dr. Čokov presented herself as Minister of Science and Technology in the previous "hearing" of technology, she did not mention technology, and then I warned that it was not an accident. Now it's happened. Slovenia will become a technological colony, as one of the committees announced, a representative of the Academy of Science, and the fact that it has become a technological colony and perhaps a colony in any other areas has apparently received "hegen" in the circles of this coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u95	Thank you very much, colleague Jerovšek. Replica has Vice-President Delak - five minutes, then three or four more are reported - two who have unlimited time to report, and two who are limited to five minutes. So before colleague Delak starts, I would ask everyone who wants to vote to come to the hall, because I believe this will happen soon. My friend Delak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u96	Thank you. I didn't mean to come over, because my respectable colleague Jerovšek has been so analytical about the relationship between our client, DeSUS, and, of course, liberal democracy, - and I have to say a few words, I will be very brief: talking nonsense! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u97	That's it? Thank you very much. Comrade Jerovšek, you want a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u98	Well, I believe that, given that the Prime Minister was extremely visual and transparent in his statements and the rejection of DeSUS, that he would have the right to propose on his own that in today's debate Mr Delak has no argument to deny it. It was also very transparent behind this booth when a representative of the parliamentary group, Mr Kebrič, spoke as follows: "We agree with the list of candidates presented to us." He was very honest, they were presented with a list of candidates, they had no right to participate in the creation of the list, even though they are formally considered to be a coalition partner. However, as I have said before, I support Mr Drnovska in this regard. I am in favour of clarifying some things in the Slovenian political space and making it clear that what does not meet the standards is that the Prime Minister should also say it out loud and publicly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u99	There's no need to explain. That is how I find that my colleague Kelemin, then my colleague Rupar, now has the word. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u100	Thank you very much for your word. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the House. Who's turning it off? During that time, I had the opportunity to observe people a little bit. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u101	Please, for peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u102	or colleagues who are present in the National Assembly, and I must regret that I have to say this. [[...]] The fact is that we are all from space and from debate and from time to time tired. But still, I don't think we should be impatient and hateful. Directly from the representative, Mrs Andreja Richter, for culture, I noticed at Mr Jerovsk's performance that she was extremely hostile and I was impatient, against Mr Jerovsk. Dear Mrs Andreja Richter, you are a representative of culture, and it is you who should take into account the words that Mr Drnovšek has recently said about kindness and politeness, even though it is as difficult for you as it is for me to be smiling and kind, just play the politician, not to show what you have shown a little bit earlier. It's just an introduction. But given the late hour, I'm really gonna try to be as short as I can. I will limit myself to all ideological debates, but I will only discuss in concrete terms some of the problems that are important, which I must mention, which have been happening even today, which are important for the future province of Posavia, which I come from. That is why I would like to talk about at least one issue that is so important to us, and this is the question of building a chain of Sava power plants. In fact, today, I have asked the Minister or candidate for Minister, Mrs Tei Petrin, whether, in view of the negotiations reached, the agreements reached, the conclusions adopted by the current Bajuk Government, these conclusions, which somehow provided some start-up funds for this project, will be taken into account, I must recall that the proposal for a law for this project was proposed by the Liberal Democracy Group and that this project was an extremely important project during the electoral campaign phase. Today, however, I have learned that this project is economically unjust, capital-inspective and that there are great doubts as to whether this project can be started at all; whether, therefore, the adoption of the law was just a political farce, on the basis of which it is, of course, and on the basis of which many such political farces the LDS could then win - whether it was a real project. I must say here that Posavje is fully - in full: all Members from Posavje as well as all political options from Posavje - we are united in supporting this project and that we will not, under any condition, withdraw from this project and that, despite the fact that I also agree with the comment made by Mr Gaspari, the former Minister, who today, at the hearing, do not have to fund certain projects in Slovenia in this way. So far, all projects in investment in electricity have been financed in this way. I do not mind, therefore, I also agree that this is not the most appropriate way, but that we can start this project at all - important, both for Posavia strategically important for Posavia and also strategically important for the Slovenian economy, so that I will not cite everyone, knowledge and expertise who have learned that this project is strategically important for Slovenia. So, I just want to say that we are united in Posavje and we will remain united and that we will not, under any circumstances, let this project not be realized and, of course, will be constructively, constructively from Posavje, perform this project in Posavje. In what way, of course, you will have the opportunity in the coalition to complement this proposal then, but we must not allow the project to start in 2001. Just as much as possible, in support of this project. Another question, which is generally present in our Slovenia, is payment non-discipline. I must say that I have asked Mr Rope this question at the hearing, but Mr Kopač, as chairman of the committee, simply did not leave Mr Rop to answer this question. How does he plan to handle this? Paying Discipline Is One of the Questions [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] Who's doing this? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u103	Please, if you'll continue. Please, if you'll continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u104	I mean, if anyone wants to stall, I can talk for half an hour, or an hour, if they're in love, but give me five minutes, I'll tell you five minutes, and then we can finish, and we can vote and go home.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u105	You have the floor, Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Thank you so much for your kindness. So, big question - payment non-discipline. And as long as this issue in Slovenia is not adequately resolved in the future, I hope you know - at least Members who have contact with the field - how pressing the problem is in the economy, in entrepreneurship and in crafts, that this issue will be properly resolved in the future. And I hope that with some constructive attitude, including the opposition, this question will be resolved usefully, regardless of the fact that there was no answer to this question at the hearing itself. I will only whisper this: given today's debate, it is clear that the coalition will in fact have no hard work in the National Assembly, because it seems that the so-called opposition will be fighting each other. We can call it now because it was very popular in the previous system: opposition A and B. Opposition A I will call that which is stronger and opposition B that is worse. I don't think this is supposed to be happening too much. Only so long as the debate is closed as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u107	Thank you so much for your kindness, Mr. Kelemina. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rupar is the last of those who have the right to speak without a time limit. Two other Members have been declared after it. So 10 minutes after the end of Mr Rupar's speech, we will begin by voting on the appointment of the government. Please, Mr. Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr President, distinguished candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers, Members and Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen! I thought I'd read three pages, but since I want to be polite to all of you, just give me a minute. Since I have also written the conclusion of this speech in a meaningful form, let me at least read it. I cannot judge candidates and candidates as one of Hussein's friends did in this room, but I can evaluate them as I have seen, heard and read. I must admit that Dr. Drnovšek had a happy hand in a lot of people. I can say that because I know them from their previous cooperation. Of these, I also expect co-operation and obedience for proposals from the opposition, which I believe can be of particular benefit to the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and that they are, for the most part, smart. Therefore, I am already criticising those candidates who are not either in the professional or in their work so far in no contact with the ministry and the work they are taking. I'm sure they'll have a lot of problems with themselves. And I can assure you that in their power they will continue to accuse the opposition and the government of Dr. Bayuk. But I'm glad that I'm sure they won't be able to do it again. Therefore, allow me, colleagues and colleague, to honor Mr Drnovšk, because I am Slovenian and I do not care what happens to our country, I wish he had a happy hand in choosing and I wish him very much good results from this place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u109	Thank you very much. We have thus exhausted speakers who had the right to a timeless debate. Two of them signed up for a debate, which I limit to five minutes. First Mr. Petty Officer, then Mr. Sok. Before that, I'm asking, does anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I thought I'd be able to talk Dr. Drnovski into proposing a list of candidates. I can see that I can't, so I'm going to change a little bit what I was going to say, but I'm definitely going to express myself about the candidates. We had the opportunity to familiarize ourselves with their presentations. I've been asking them questions myself. I note that they have shown a certain willingness to work to present the structure of ministries, which are tasks, but I must tell you that this is not enough to take on the responsibility of taking on such a ministerial function. There were no adequate answers to the key vital questions facing Slovenia now. On deficits in the budget treasury - answers medley, on the pension system, on the backlog of rural areas, on the backlog in the judiciary, on the privatisation gap, on the rise of violence and other questions: they either avoided these answers or were unclear. These are reasons why they are not convincing and cannot gain confidence. Since Dr Drnovšek has repeatedly stated that he has a wide range of potential candidates, we have finally found that those he has proposed from his party in particular are already known names. And these names have been included in the reign of the last eight years. We've got the results. From the so-called zero we came in these key areas to minus. Now I'm wondering how we can trust a new team. Why don't I vote for the candidates submitted - an additional one? The government coalition has advocated that it will not allow a worthy supervisory function for the opposition. This not only harms himself, but harms young people to democracy in Slovenia, it does long-term damage. We do not have enough experience to pass into such water, but we have experience, negative, from before. Nor did the coalition of ruling parties show interest in key issues of Slovenians around the world and in substitution. In view of the above, I cannot support the list of candidates submitted for ministers. I'm willing to participate in the opposition. I will follow up on the implementation of these programmes that you have promised, and I will support the good proposals, of course, you can count on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The last reported debater is colleague Sok. This will start the vote no later than 21:00 and 6 minutes. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen! I really didn't think I'd be the last speaker in this House. Much of what I wanted to say has already been said, but let me add something to it. Most ministers are expected to have received appropriate and even very successful hearings before parliamentary committees, of course regardless of what they said and how they answered the questions raised. And how could it not, since all parliamentary committees are run by parties to the coalition majority and in all of them you also have the necessary parliamentary majority. The Government is thus composed of those parties who have sought to amend Article 80 of the Constitution and thereby circumvent the will of the people and the decision of the Constitutional Court. With various manoeuvres, the government has provided additional support and will not have a problem with the majority it has today for the next four years. Whether this will make the political forces' relationship in Parliament and thus in the government in favour of the Slovenian nation will quickly show up. I am sure that in this political situation, Slovenian agriculture and thus Slovenian rural areas will take the worst. The success of Slovenia's integration into the European Union is, in my opinion and also in the opinion of many, largely dependent on the success of the integration of Slovenian agriculture into the Union. Agriculture is not only an economic category, but it represents an extremely important category also from the point of view of population and in particular from the point of view of maintaining the cultural identity of the Slovenian province. The situation today is that young people do not see the future of this profession, that they go to cities and help create a ton of unemployed and a major housing problem. In the countryside, however, elderly parents, elderly farmers, with poor development opportunities, are left with poor opportunity to endure what awaits them in the process of integration into the European Union, and the pressures of many small farmers, especially those who are over 3 to 5 hectares of land, are extremely large and are certainly not to blame for the situation they are in. The programs that could help them in these days, and even if they were, could not help many, since our farmers are not qualified to do so. I believe that the new Minister of Agriculture has good intentions and will strive for such measures that will benefit Slovenian agriculture, but I wonder whether it will be possible for him to implement them in the predominantly liberal government. The problem is so large from a social point of view that it should be addressed by the entire government team, but not only by the Ministry of Agriculture. Experience from the past, and from the past eight years of the rule of liberal democracy, I have been led to believe that this will not be the case. Although an extremely professional government is now being offered, I am sure that, in addition to great expertise, ministers must also exercise a great deal of honesty. The latter is what I would like you to give to all who are chosen today, so do your work professionally and honestly. To conclude, I would only tell Mr Anderlich, who is even offensive to the opposition, most of all to New Slovenia, that this way of working stops because, as a newly elected Member, I am very concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u113	Thank you. I'm asking, does anyone else want a word? The list of applicants is exhausted. I guess not. So I'm asking, does the Prime Minister want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Do the candidates want to speak for the ministers? Please, for peace in the hall. I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 265 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the appointment of ministers shall be voted on by voting on the list of candidates for ministers as a whole. In the light of the amendment to Article 265 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which was adopted on 30 May 2000, the assembly on the list of ministers will vote in public. I therefore put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly appoints Dr Dimitri Rupl as Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Bohinca Council for Minister of Home Affairs, Dr Anton Grizold as Minister of Defence, Mag. Mr Anton Ropa for Minister of Finance, Dr. Teo Petrin for Minister of Economic Affairs, Dr. Vlad Dimovski for Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mr. Jakob Preseknik for Minister of Transport and Communications, Mag. Franca Bootha, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mag. Mr Janez Kopač for Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Ivan Bizjak for Minister of Justice, Dr Lucio Čok for Minister of Education and Sport, Dr Dušan Kebra for Minister of Health, Mr Igor Bavčar for Minister without Director for European Affairs, Mrs Andrejo Richter for Minister of Culture. Before we begin to vote, let me ask those who do not have a voting card to express their presence and will in the vote with a high hand, so that there will be no different interpretation of the political will of the National Assembly in this important vote. Members and Members, please note their presence! 86 Members and Members are present. We vote on the proposed decision. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against 20.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, I find that the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are appointed. [[Flattery.]] Under the third paragraph of Article 11 of the Government Act, the government took office because more than two thirds of the ministers were appointed. Within 10 days, the President of the Government must propose not yet appointed ministers or inform the National Assembly, whose departments will be temporarily, but not longer than three months, taken over or entrusted them to another Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, on our common behalf, I congratulate all ministers and ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on their appointment and wish them to carry out this difficult duty successfully. I ask the newly appointed ministers to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Dr Dimitrij Rupel, Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be the first to swear. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u114	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Dr. Rado Bohinc, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u116	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u117	Peace in the hall, please. Thank you very much. Dr. Anton Grizold, Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u118	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mag. Anton Rop, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u120	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Dr. Tea Petrin, Minister of Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u122	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Dr Vlado Dimovski, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u124	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Jakob President, Minister for Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u126	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mag. Franci Booth, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u128	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mag. Janez Kopač, Minister of Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u130	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u131	Please, for peace in the hall! Please, for peace in the hall! Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Bizjak, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u132	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Dr. Lucia Chok, Minister for Education and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u134	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Dr. Dusan Keber, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u136	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Bavčar, Minister without a department responsible for European affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u138	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mrs. Andrea Richter, Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u140	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-11-30-SDZ3-Izredna-02.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I'm asking, do any of the newly appointed ministers or ministers want a word? I guess not. I'm asking for peace. Because they were Members, Dr. Dimitri Rupel, mag. Anton Rop, mag. Janez Kopač, Dr Lucija Čok and Igor Bavčar appointed ministers, are temporarily unable to perform their parliamentary functions under Article 14 of the Law on Members. I will immediately inform the Republican Electoral Commission and ask it to inform the assembly which candidates will replace these Members in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members. On the basis of a notice from the Republic Election Commission, the National Assembly Commission of Commissioners will prepare a report and propose approval of the mandates and report on its findings at the first next meeting of the Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 2nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
