ParlaMint-SI_2000-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u1	[[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[... ...]] [[An anthem.]] Mr President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Milan Kučan! [[...]] Dear colleagues and fellow Members! Nice to meet you! The first meeting of the National Assembly was convened by the President of the Republic, Mr Milan Kučan, who will also address the assembly. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the first meeting of the newly elected National Assembly shall be chaired by the oldest Member, Dr Jožef Bernik. I wish him a successful job.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the first meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia convened by the President of the Republic of Slovenia under the third paragraph of Article 81 of the Constitution. The President of the Republic, Mr Milan Kučan, is present at the sitting and I welcome him and give him my word. Here you go, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-SI_2000-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u3	Mr President, honourable Members and Members, Prime Minister, Ministers, Excellency, ladies and gentlemen! The Constitution granted me the right and imposed an honourable duty to convene a constitutional meeting of the National Assembly, a constitutional meeting of the 4th Slovenian Parliament following the first democratic multilateral elections and the third after the country's independence. Dear Members and Members! Voters and voters have chosen you after the free assessment of the programmes and visions of our country's future, and the way it was carried out, as offered by the political parties who have nominated you, and also on the basis of your personal presentations. Your political wisdom has for four years left to decisions that will determine the content and quality of life of people in Slovenia, as well as its validity, reputation and placement in the international space. Like all the time, since the preparation for plebiscite, with which citizens and citizens have decided that Slovenia will be a single country, they believe that you will meet their expectations. The Slovenian state and voters are mature. They have a memory, they can express recognition, and they can also withdraw support when they judge election promises and their fulfillment. They'll be watching your work carefully. Our country is stable and democratic after almost nine years of independent life. Many good things have also been done by the Members and Members of the previous calls. The foundations of the country laid by the plebiscite for Slovenia are solid, the objectives and direction of the development of the country are clear and lastingly binding on all generations of the managers of the Slovenian state. It is the common duty of all to protect human political, economic and social rights and to attract as many people as possible to co-decision and to cooperate in making decisions that are important to all. It is a common duty to act so that Slovenia will soon be at the new station of its journey to the future, to the European Union and to NATO. It is reasonable to expect that it will be up to you, Members of this call, to decide on the placement of Slovenia in the European Union and thus determine the future of Slovenia and Slovenia. Before this action, there will be some very important decisions before you and the whole country that will give the final and comprehensive image of Slovenia, which corresponds to the life of a promising community with which European countries and nations ensure peace and security, and thus the fundamental conditions for stable development, cooperation, solidarity and respect for human dignity and rights based on the values of European, civilisation, democratic and humanistic extradition. The entry of Slovenia will be decided by our competence for a creative and responsible life in this respectable society of peace, prosperity and democracy. They will decide who will accept us as a successful and responsible country between us. Their understanding and affection are worth the effort. However, nationals and citizens of Slovenia will decide for the country at the referendum. To you, honourable Members, the most important part of the responsibility will be to prepare a referendum in its substantive dimensions and legal implementation as carefully as plebiscite was ten years ago. The life of the country and all aspects of a secure life in it impose a number of duties. Some are also time-consuming, such as the budget, reform and modernisation of public administration, the completion of denationalisation and privatisation of certain important areas of economic infrastructure, the elimination of delays in the integration into the European Union and the provision of conditions for the elimination of backlogs of settlements that have the gravest impact on the rights of citizens and their legal security. Close and urgent steps and decisions include the regulation of issues still open in relations with Croatia, the determination of our national standings and therefore clear relations on certain issues in relations with Austria, the fulfilment of our responsibility for the position of Slovenian minorities in neighbouring friendly countries, and the establishment of an overall strategy for regulating relations and cooperation with the countries of the former Yugoslavia and South-Eastern Europe as a whole. The National Assembly and the new government will be effective in carrying out their demanding tasks if Members and Ministers feel committed first and foremost to the State, to its interests and to its people. It will also be a good way into an open society, more receptive to the news, the call of time, the information era, which we should have already entered, but many more actions await us to promote more ambitiously and promote the knowledge of the new idea, to develop the economy of high technologies, to enrich our spiritual life and to consolidate modern Slovenia with the deep roots of home and self-confidence in the world, without those borders that have not yet been separated so long ago. Expectations before the start of the National Assembly, in which you are elected, are great. They may be summed up in anticipation and demand addressed to all of us, the administrators of the Slovenian State, to demonstrate the will and ability to bring citizens and citizens of Slovenia together in a concerted effort for successful and accelerated economic development, in political legal and social transformation, with the surely identifiable and sovereign placement of Slovenia in European and in the global economic, political and security defence links, in a patient conversation, with mutual respect, in a joint and good work and in respect of what has already been achieved, to ensure a secure future of Slovenia and of Slovenia, in order to respect for the diversity and elimination of barriers to mistrust, rejection and exclusion, in order to prevent injustices and illegal and unfair conduct, in order to protect our cultural and national identity, our country, sovereignty and the environment, our cultural and natural heritage, that we will in the common good of people in this country, which we are being built among the remnants of the walls that we have. Slovenia needs economic, social and political stability to meet these expectations. Therefore, it needs a competent, stable, responsible and effective government, which will have strong support, as well as constructive control over its functioning in your National Assembly. I believe that the government will want to involve all creative Slovenians, who are large and who want Slovenia to turn its eyes to the future. I expect that your cooperation will quickly lead to procedures that will enable the Republic of Slovenia to obtain such a government as soon as possible. Dear Members and Members! I wish you four years of successful work for the good of the country, for the benefit of all its citizens and citizens. With this wish, I congratulate you on your election, on the trust you have received. In working for the well-being of the country, protecting the dignity and prosperity of all its inhabitants, I also wish you the understanding and favored support of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and of all Slovenes and Slovenes at home and throughout the world, where they are and where fate has taken them. Thank you very much. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u4	I thank the President of the Republic very much for his words. Before we proceed with our work, please, Members of Parliament and Members, who have not notified their presence to the House of Assembly and have given their confirmation of their election to do so here, at the President's table, that everything will be fine. We're continuing our session. I will be assisted by the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, Mrs Veliščkova, who you know very well. There's no shortage. We are now moving forward and will determine the presence of the usable voting apparatus. Let me remind you here, in particular the new Members and Members, that you have received a more detailed instruction on the use of the voting apparatus. I hope you've all got this on - put the card in if you have it. Do you all have a card? Yeah. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall! 88 Members and Members are present.) That's how the assembly is concluded and it can decide. We are now moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 1st meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference. The proposed agenda is based on the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly relating to the constitution of the National Assembly, namely: firstly, the election of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the European Commission; secondly, the report of the European Commission on the review, the election certificates and possible appeals by candidates and representatives of the list of candidates against the decisions of the electoral commission which may affect the approval of the mandates, the proposal for the approval of mandates and the decision on appeals; thirdly, the election of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Commission on Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs and Fourthly, the election of the President and the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In doing so, it should be noted that the proposed agenda covers four points arising from the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Law and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and they need to be held at a constitutional meeting. Thus, we cannot discuss the withdrawal of a single item from the agenda. If the national assembly decides not to elect all Vice-Presidents until this point is addressed, in particular because it is not yet known which parties will be in position and which parties will be in opposition, and it is necessary to observe the unwritten rule that one of the Vice-Presidents belongs to the opposition, so that the assembly may, under Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, provide that the election is to be transferred to one of the following meetings. We are moving on to proposals to extend the agenda. Please. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u5	In order for the National Assembly to start doing its work normally as soon as possible, it must have at least some working bodies established, so on behalf of the Group of Members, I propose an extension of the agenda by setting up the working bodies of the National Assembly. I propose that we address this point under order number 5 of the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u6	Thank you. Does anyone want a word about this? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u7	Only a question to Mr Anderlich, on whose behalf the MEPs were addressed by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u8	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u9	On behalf of the Group of Members elected on the same list of liberal democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u10	Does any other parliamentary group want a word? Please, Mr. Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u11	Dear Members and Members. I speak on behalf of New Slovenia and oppose this proposal because I think we will be in trouble if we decide on such important compositions in a unclear situation. We've already had problems in the past because of our rapid decision-making. I suggest that we love working bodies, those that are not necessarily chosen today, after we know who is in the government and who is in the opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Does any other parliamentary group want a word? If not, I would ask if a representative of the Secretariat would like to speak for the law and legal affairs. Does he? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] Does the proposer wish to further explain his proposal for comments? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u13	In view of the previous explanation, I should add that the proposal is below, given what the president has already said that it is likely that some things will not be possible to do today in order to carry out this point in the coming meeting in the coming days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u14	I am putting to the vote a proposal to extend the agenda with Mr Anderlich's proposal. Let's find out who's here! [[82 MPs.]] Let us vote on the proposal to extend the agenda. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 34.]] This extension is said to have been approved. The assembly will consider that proposal as item 5 of the agenda. Thank you very much. We will now vote on the draft agenda as a whole. I propose today's agenda session, which you have received with reference, and with one addition. I shall put to the vote the proposed agenda. Please, let's find out who's here. [[87 present.]] Let us vote on the draft agenda. [[The vote was 74.]] [[Against 15.]] Now we're moving on to one. Agenda item - Election of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Men's Immunity Commission. On the basis of the second paragraph of Article 7 of the Law on Members and Article 12, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we shall first elect a Commission of State. Accordingly, the Commission should be composed of representatives of all parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. The mandate-immunity commission will review the election certificates. At the beginning of the meeting of the National Assembly, we did not receive complaints from candidates or representatives of candidate lists against the decision of the electoral commission which may affect the approval of the mandates. The representatives of the parties whose candidates were elected to the National Assembly, we hope, either before today's meeting or yesterday's meeting and jointly formulated a proposal for the election of the European Commission for Immunity at today's meeting or today's addition - as the Secretary-General has told me, has written this scenario for me. Thank you. Mr Janez Podobnik will present the proposal for representatives of the parliamentary groups in the composition of the Commission on Mandate and Immunity.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u15	Dear Dr. Bernick, colleagues and colleagues! As has already been said, yesterday was a preparatory meeting for today's session. At this meeting, I was also authorised to present, on behalf of the representatives of the identical lists elected to the National Assembly, a decree on the election of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The decree shall be drawn up on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 7 of the Law on Members and the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The decree consists of three articles. The first speaks of the President and seven members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia as having a mandate-holder-immunity commission. In the second section of the decree, it is clear that they will be elected to the Council of State for the term of office and immunity: the President of Valentin Pohorc and the members of Cyril Puck, Paul Rupar, Bojan Kontić, Yuri Malovra, Majdo Zupan, Victory of Jelinčič and Igor Štemberger. The third section speaks of the date on which this Decision enters into force on the date of its adoption by the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I ask or suggest that you adopt the proposed decision after any discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Podobnik. Members of the parliamentary groups would like a word? [[They don't want to.]] We will vote on these proposals in full, as well as on the list of candidates. Members and Members, please note your presence. I note that 84 Members and Members are present. We are now going to vote on this proposal. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, I note that the Commission's mandate-immunity body has been elected in the proposed composition. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I now propose that the commission meet immediately in the salon, which is on the first floor of the building on Šubičeva. Members of the committee, please take with you the material you received for agenda item 2. This concludes the meeting of the choir. It'll start in 30 minutes, so it's 11:15.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for a little more patience because the report of the Commission is being reproduced. We hope we get this soon. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We're moving to 2. On the day-to-day basis, this is the report of the proposed committee on the examination of the selection certificates and the possible complaints by candidates and representatives of the list of candidates for the decision of the voluntary commission, which may affect the validation of the mandate, the proposal for the confirmation of the mandate and the decision on appeals. Before we go to this, I have a pleasant duty to welcome Mr President of the Republic Election Commission, Mr Gasper Frankar. I greet him well and thank him for his work. [[Let's hear it.]] Now let's move on. The material for the consideration of this item should, however, be received on the bench, pardon, you have received the report of the Republic Election Commission, published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 98, of 24 October this year. We didn't get a complaint. We should now also receive a written report from the Commission on Mandate and Immunity, but it is multiplying. In order not to waste time, I propose, because Mr President of this Commission has written a report to report, unless there are any objections to this point and to my proposal. Since there is no objection, I ask Mr Valentin Pohorc to submit a report to this Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u18	Mr President, honourable Members and other Members present in this Chamber! I am submitting a report on the review of the electoral certificates with a proposal for the approval of mandates. At its first meeting, on 27.10.2000, in accordance with the provisions of the third paragraph of Article 7 of the Law on Members, the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia reviewed the certificate of election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. By the beginning of the first meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, no complaints had been lodged with the candidates and representatives of the candidate lists against the decisions of the electoral commission which may affect the approval of the mandates. The mandate-immunity committee reviewed the report of the Republic Election Commission on the outcome of the regular election of Members to the National Assembly and the report of the accompanying electoral files and confirmed the election of Members and found on this basis: 1. In the regular election of Members to the National Assembly on 15 October 2000, 60 candidates were elected under the second part of the Constitutional Act supplementing Article 80 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 90 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly and 60 were elected under the provisions of Article 91 of the Law. The remaining 28 mandates were divided at national level according to the provisions of Part Two of the Constitutional Act supplementing Article 80 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 92 and 93 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly. After one term he was elected Member, representative of the Italian or Hungarian national community. The election certificates were submitted to the Commission by 87 candidates. Three candidates did not submit an original election certificate and their identity was established. That is why the Commission of Commissioners-in-Charge carried out an examination of the documentation of the Republican Electoral Commission and found that no mandate was disputed and the three Members called for original certificates to be submitted as soon as possible. On the basis of a review of the report of the Republic Election Commission and of the electoral certificates submitted, the Commission concluded that no mandate of 90 sent mandates was disputed. On the basis of that and in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the Commission shall propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, pursuant to Article 7 of the Law on Members and Article 14 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, that the following decision be adopted: "The terms of office of all Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia elected in the elections of 15 October 2000 shall be confirmed following the list of elected mandates, which shall form an integral part of the report of the Commission of Commissioners." The Commission was final, there was only one missing, we remained present. We all unanimously confirmed the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. President, Valentin Pohortz. Although you have not yet received this report, which is also accompanied by a list of all Members and Members, I will continue the meeting and therefore open the debate on the report of the Commission on Immunity. There is no debate on that. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give my word to the Members and Members of Parliament. [[There's no debate.]] If no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. There's an explanation to be made here. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 7 of the Law on Members and the second and third paragraphs of Article 14 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Assembly shall jointly decide on the approval of non-controversial mandates. We do not have a dispute, so all Members can vote. We're moving on now. It follows from the report of the Commission on Mandate-Immunity that there are no mandates at stake, so I am putting to the vote the report of the Commission on Mandate-Immunity in full and therefore we are voting on the approval of all 90 Members and Members' mandates. Members and Members, please note their presence! [[There are 83 Members and Members present.]] We will now vote on the proposal put forward by the President of the Commission. Please. "For" was voted by 79 Members and Members, no one was "against". On the basis of the outcome of the vote, I note that this report has been fully adopted by the Immunity Commission and all 90 seats of Members and Members are hereby confirmed. Congratulations to all of you. [[Let's hear it.]] Please, if you'd like a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u20	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. I congratulate all Members of Parliament on their election and wish you every success.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u21	Thank you very much. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Election of the President, the Vice-President and members of the Committee on Love, Appointment and Administrative Affairs. In accordance with the agreement of the representatives of the parties whose candidates have been elected to the National Assembly, proposals have already been submitted for the composition of the Commission for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs of the National Assembly. Mr Janez Podobnik will present the proposal for parliamentary parties.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u22	Dear colleague Dr. Bernick, colleagues and colleagues! With the same powers as in the previous item on the agenda, I would like to present to you a decree on the election of the President, Vice-President and members of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for elections, appointments and administrative matters. The composition of the decree is also prepared on the basis of an agreement at yesterday's preparatory meeting for this meeting of the National Assembly. The decree is drawn up on the basis of Articles 15 and 172 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs shall have a President, a Vice-President and 22 members. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia election, appointment and administrative affairs committee shall be elected as President of Cyril Pucko, Vice-President Franz Pukšič and members of Anton Anderlič, Igor Bavčar, Maximilian Lavrinc, Tone Partljič, Irma Pavlinič-Krebs, Matjaž Švagan, Miran Jerič, Dusan Vučko, Dr. Michael Brejc, Janez Janša, mag. Franc Sušnik, Silva Črnugelj, Aurelio Juri, Miran Potrč, Ivan Bozič, Franci Rokavec, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, mag. Janez Drobnič, Anton Delak, Sašo Pece, Bogomir Grandchild and Maria Possonec. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption by the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I would suggest that, after consideration, colleagues and colleagues be given the opportunity to adopt this Decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u23	Thank you, Dr. Squirrel. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Do you want to wait until we split the decree? Please. Since there is no answer, we will continue the meeting. Since no one wants to discuss, I conclude the debate and put to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of the Election, Appointment and Administrative Affairs Commission as just proposed. So we are voting on that proposal as a whole, as a list of candidates. I ask Members and Members to register their presence. [[81 Members and Members are present.]] We are now voting on the proposal. [[The vote was 78.]] [[Against one.]] In view of the outcome of this vote, I note that the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission has been elected in the proposed composition. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Given that we have elected an election, appointment and administrative committee, I propose that the Commission meet immediately in the living room on the first floor of the Šubičeva building. In accordance with Rule 244 of the Rules of Procedure, the Commission must submit to us a proposal for the President of the National Assembly, as well as proposals for a Vice-President of the National Assembly. Given that a candidate for president or vice-president may also be proposed by a group of at least 10 Members and Members, I would like to ask that you present any proposals from those authorised candidates here at the President's table. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u24	I have a procedural proposal that, given that there has been very little time today from the constitutional meeting to the constitutional session and that the representatives of the groups of Members elected on the same lists have not been able to agree on the allocation of certain tasks, leadership functions in the National Assembly and that we have today extended the draft agenda with a point: the creation of at least some working bodies, I propose that the State Assembly suspend the meeting at this time and continue it on 7 November. At that time, the Elections Commission should prepare a proposal for the President, the Vice-Presidents and for the working bodies, and of course also the proposal that you have put forward is up to date, so that a group of 10 Members, if identified, can also propose their proposal. So my proposal is to suspend until 7 November, and until then, the Elections and Appointments Commission should meet and make proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Anderlich. You have heard the procedural proposal and now we must decide. I, of course, give the floor first to Members and Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u26	Procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u27	Please! Madam Secretary-General has informed me that there is no debate under the Rules of Procedure, but I think that Members can change if they want to. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2000-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u28	The motioner did not say what year, he said on 7 November. I'd like to hear about the year.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u29	Please, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u30	That's the least you can do. So the proposal sounds completely clear at this point. I propose a suspension by 7 November 2000 and the meeting is scheduled to continue this day at 10 a.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2000-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-01.ana.u31	Thank you very much. You've heard the completed proposal. As I see from the Rules of Procedure, it is no longer possible to discuss this matter. But if the proposal doesn't go through, then we'll get a new one. That is why I have to ask for presence under the Rules of Procedure. [[83 present.]] We are now going to the vote on the procedural proposal. Please! [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] The procedural proposal has been adopted. I'm adjourning the meeting, which will continue on November 7th at 10 a.m. here in this room. Thank you for a nice and nice holiday.
