ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u298	... Mr. Prime Minister, Ministers, Excellencys, ladies and gentlemen. [[speaks later turned on, can't be heard]] At the beginning of a new legislative period, the Croatian public wants to know what brings tomorrow. We live in a world that raises hope for tomorrow's peace, but it's still insecure. We live in a country that sees tomorrow's harmony in prosperity, but it's still filled with suspenses. Croatian citizens demand reliability. A reliable future, reliable for your family, reliable for future generations. The November 23rd elections showed that the Croatian man also wants a reliable state. A country that will be able to fulfill its task in front of its own citizens, who will at the same time know how to find its place in important international processes and who will have it, will be able to find the right measure. That's exactly what the 23 November election is all about. They have shown that Croatia wants a government that will know how to find the right measure, which will provide the country with a new balance and provide a new foothold for progress. They have also confirmed that Croatia is a strong country, few are those who, few in Europe who have barely 10.5 years passed or 11, 12 if we take from the international recognition of 11 years and have endured our journey. Now it is time to move on, the elections confirmed that the Croatian voters wanted a change. The government programme that I will briefly present is the change programme that is needed for Croatia in order to ensure the reliability that citizens want. I spoke after the election with all the parliamentary parties. I've spoken to representatives of young people, pensioners, minority representatives, entrepreneurs. I spoke as president of the Croatian Democratic Union, the party that won the most votes. And that's why I want to say that now after the election, it's our joint task to carry out the changes that are necessary in the way people will understand, I stress that this is our common task. In that spirit, I have also negotiated with many political partners as Prime Minister. Not for coalition trade, unreal promises, it was too much, but to ensure the stability of the government. Croatia needs a stable and effective government for the movement of the country's internal potential, but also for the tasks and jobs that await us on the international agenda. However, I would like to stress that talks with political partners have been conducted in a way that lays the foundations and frameworks for solving some of the most sensitive and important issues, from the pensioners' position to minority issues. And these are important questions for Croatia. By solving them, we're getting rid of some ballast that needlessly burdens us in front of the world or disrupts internal social stability. These are issues that Croatia must resolve, this government is ready and determined to start solving them immediately. Therefore, the challenges ahead of us must not become a cause for division. It is necessary to rise above party fences and political selfishness. A broad political consensus on the country's most important strategic goals in the future, as well as the political breadth to overcome differences in fruitless discussions on the past. The only ones who can free us from the energy we need together. Only restored national energy and effective leadership can ensure the achievement of economic and social reforms that we need to complete responsibly and professionally. Only this can guarantee the dignity of Croatian Parliamentarianism, may the Croatian Parliament remain a place where democracy will develop to the well-being of Croatia. That's why I'm going to go over the usual grade of so-called. the condition is detected. Not only because it's obvious, but also because I firmly believe that it's time to break out of the circle of mutual transfer, prescribing. The elections best showed what happens when the wrongs of the predecessors become an excuse for their own failures. And when I speak as I have spoken of over the past years about indifference, about ideological divisions, about the loss of the moral and political vertical of society, about the violated national security, about the erosion of responsibility, about the erosion of power from the people, about the impasse in relation to the European and world states, about unemployment, about the high external debt, the poor economic condition and the fall of standards, then I'm not saying that to boost political competition and tomorrow, but I would say it in a state that was caught. I am saying this because Croatia needs new political dynamics. Croatia needs consolidation of state institutions, regulation of relations in the political system, strengthening public administration and its separation from the political and party system, strengthening the economy through strong momentum of its own production and employment, consistent commitment to democracy and the rule of law. Strong guarantees, minority, civil and religious freedoms and equality of all our citizens, as well as speedy entry into NATO and the European Union. All this, ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced, can be the cornerstone of a political consensus that will support a stable and effective government that I will propose to this high house. I am sure that the internal democratic consensus will strengthen our international position, peace in the house is a guarantee of peace with the world. Ladies and gentlemen, the country faces great hardships and challenges. I firmly believe that at this point, the most important thing is that the government manages economic and social processes strategically targeted state policy management based on prepared priorities and programmes is the only defence of instability. Citizens need to know what awaits them, what the state will do. The world also needs a reliable and predictable Croatia that can help achieve a lasting stabilisation of political opportunities in this part of Europe. The government will therefore implement such a policy by handling the following principles and priorities. First, the economy and society need to develop in stable and predictable conditions. The government will encourage the necessary legislative changes to ensure the country's legal stability and administrative efficiency. Second, the development-oriented state budget. The main objective of the budget will be to ensure the country's macroeconomic stability and to launch development in the economy. The government will urgently prepare measures to reduce the country's external debt initially to control external debt and balance the balance of payments. The government will approach public finances and prepare measures to reduce public spending and state costs. Third, domestic gross product growth, gross domestic product. The government will immediately take concrete measures and prepare incentives and other instruments to increase general production dynamics in Croatia to increase employment and living standards. It will stimulate all forms of entrepreneurship to increase exports, to develop balanced development of all Croatian regions, to increase the competitiveness of domestic products, to develop strategic branches of the Croatian economy and to integrate internally into harmonised economic branches and production on market principles. The government will establish a new system of rapid and simple settlement of administrative conditions for entrepreneurship. Incentive measures will activate domestic capital and stimulate foreign investment to ensure a high growth rate. Fourth, changes in the tax system. The government's main goal in this area is to unload the economy. The government will cut taxes and ensure the efficiency of the state budget's revenue collection, simplify the income tax system. Personal deductions in the tax system will foster socially beneficial activities from health and pension insurance to sports and culture. Tax relief and compensation will ensure family safety and the country's demographic recovery. Fifth, new privatisation strategy. Owned by the state, ladies and gentlemen, is still a significant part of the country's economic potential. The government will therefore prepare a new privatisation strategy based on the concept of rebuilding and restructuring these companies with its own knowledge in order to increase the value and privatisation at a higher rate of development and exit to the world market. It will prepare a special international promotion programme for Croatia as an attractive European business destination. It will also adopt measures to develop the financial market, in particular investment funds that will attract savings and convert deposits into investment capital. Sixth, a new programme of development of the area of special national interest. The government will ensure a balanced development of all Croatian areas for the sake of the country's overall economic and political stability. We will urgently propose a new Law on Areas of Special State Interest. Faster economic development of these areas will also ensure better conditions for addressing minority issues. The development will be ensured by the overall measures to increase the gross domestic product by tax policy, promotional measures for small and medium-sized enterprises, the establishment of regional development centres, the opening of industrial zones and scientific and business parks. These fundamental principles and priorities of the Government condition its new structure as well as changes in the state administration system, which was arranged yesterday by a new package of laws. Ladies and gentlemen, strengthening the economy, restoring domestic production, increasing employment, balancing the balance of payments and controls and then reducing external debt are clear priorities of the new government. All members of Croatia's state policy will be subordinated to making progress in these areas. Just as foreign policy and diplomacy today have the most important task of ensuring such a positive international position of the country that will enable our main economic objectives to be achieved, a comprehensive consolidation and stabilisation of all components of the system in order to implement the necessary reforms is needed. And it is not enough just to talk about economic diplomacy and it is all over when we confirm our full commitment to democracy and the rule of law, the equality of all our citizens and our commitment to the European Union and NATO. On the contrary, it is only on these assignments that real work begins and this job means that the government assumes responsibility for the overall regulation of the country's situation, for the effective formation of state institutions, for public administration reform, for introducing higher standards in all segments of Croatian society from health and education to public administration and national security systems. We are aware that Croatia needs to install its contribution, its own economic development, its internal democratic stability and its contribution to peace and cooperation in the neighbourhood, Europe and the world. This is the next task in front of Croatia. Such a new step requires a new country's internal vitality, requires full focus and consistent achievement of the country's fundamental objectives at this stage of our development. I am convinced that in designing and implementing a state development policy aimed at installing high standards of European integration in the Croatian state and social structure and on the other hand in providing an optimal contribution for Croatia to build a common European house, we will ensure the political and working consent of the executive and legislative authority and support of the President of the Republic. In implementing such a policy, the Government will be guided by the following principles and objectives. First, the rule of law as a presumption of the country's internal international credibility. The government will implement a consistent reform of the judiciary and ensure full depolitisation and autonomy of the judiciary towards real needs, in line with the recommendations of the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers on the independence, impartiality and jurisdiction of judges. The government will establish a firm system of monitoring responsibility and punishment in the determined fight against bribery, corruption, crime, etc. The grey economy of nepotism. It will introduce new instruments to control financial flows in both country and abroad and to reduce state losses. It will ensure the implementation and respect of the codes of public officials, institutions, public procurement in the state administration and public undertakings. Second, state administration reform and local self-government. The reform of state administration and local self-government is one of the preconditions for economic progress and foreign investment. The central control of the use of budget funds by the state apparatus will reduce the cost of the state. We will propose a new system of financing local and regional self-government by changing tax policy. That's what we talked about yesterday. Third, Homeland Security as a contribution to the stability and peace of our work of Europe. The government is aware that a strong economy, a favourable international position and orderly relations with neighbours are the cornerstone of national security. We will therefore propose a new national security strategy and a new law on the work of the Republic of Croatia's security services. Continuing defence reform, modernising police and ensuring the rights of Croatian defenders contribute to strengthening the national security system. Fourth, the promotion of social relations. A reliable future and higher standards. With its common policy and concrete measures, the government will encourage overall democratic and social development, take into account the rights and interests of national minorities, ensure further stabilisation of social opportunities and harmonisation of all Croatian society's components. We will therefore propose laws, new laws to raise standards in education, health, culture, science, tourism, environmental protection, spatial arrangement, housing and other activities, in accordance with the principles and standards of the European Union. The government will run an active minority policy. We do not perceive minorities as a problem but as a wealth which means full equality and dignity of all Croatian citizens, while ensuring consistent application of the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities. The government will ensure the return of refugees, reconstruction and return of illegally seized private property. We will also ensure consistent implementation of the 1996 contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Italian Republic on minority rights in Croatia and Italy. We will ensure the consistent application of the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia as well as the consistent application of the Constitutional Law that I have already said. The government and representatives of minorities hold that an active and positive policy towards all minority communities in Croatia improves relations with neighbours and other European countries and that it is an important component of joining the European Union. Special measures will ensure that the government improves the material position of pensioners, introduces a formula for harmonising pensions with the increase in salaries of all employees, proposes to the Croatian Parliament, together with cooperation with the Croatian Party of pensioners, amending the Law on the implementation of the 1998 Constitutional Court Decision on the Return of Pensions to the country's economic possibilities, and proposes a legislative provision on the extraordinary annual increase in pensions for the percentage of gross domestic product growth. The government will also settle issues important for the full implementation of pension reform with other measures. We will urgently ensure that women's social status is improved through employment policy, salaries and especially in entrepreneurship. A female entrepreneur must become an integral part of society. The government will increase maternity benefits, restore the right to a three-year leave for mothers with three and more children, pay extra for students. The government will therefore encourage programmes for demographic growth because it is one of Croatia's most pressing problems. We believe that maritime orientation is one of Croatia's most important strategic rights of development. The Adriatic as a symbol and a basis for our geostrategic position in Europe, our economic development, our culture and heritage, tourism, transport infrastructure and connection to the world, we bring into the very heart of our activities and plans. The establishment of the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development clearly confirms this. In addition, the Government will urgently prepare a comprehensive national programme for the protection of the Adriatic and coastal areas and will work to establish a multilateral legal system for the protection of the Adriatic. We will also prepare a reform of primary, secondary and higher education according to European Union standards as well as a programme of measures to raise the material position and professional advancement of teachers and professors. The government will also prepare a thorough health reform, ensure supervision of spent resources without reducing the level of protection, enable additional work for doctors in the hospital’s public health care, implement hospital categorisation, adopt a new Law on Patients’ Rights, ensure that persons aged 65 and over are freed from participation in the costs of treatment and primary health care and provide maximum services for third-year people. We will also propose a law on the area of environmental protection, encourage eco-oriented entrepreneurship, launch a national programme for the irrigation of agricultural land, the development of national spatial data infrastructure and a permanent fire protection system, which was also discussed yesterday in that package of good proposals by the opposition. In 2007, Croatia will launch a programme of building a networked information system throughout the country to improve and make public administrations, justice, health and education available, and in particular to support youth entrepreneurship. We would also like to launch a national foundation for science, higher education and technological development and urgently adopt criteria for establishing a centre of excellence and setting out their objectives. The government will fully support freedom of the media, ensure transparency in privatisation and prepare in this sense everything that is necessary. The government wants these measures to confirm its commitment to raising the overall quality of life in Croatia and to take all necessary measures to ensure that all members of the Croatian Full Membership Society are better prepared for full membership in the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, we live in a world that raises hope for tomorrow's peace but is still unstable. The former world order is gone, the new one is still emerging. Former two - way, ideological and military tensions and threats have replaced entirely new challenges. In such a world, Croatia wants to contribute to the strengthening of peace and understanding between nations and nations. And we want to make our own progress the conditions for joining the European Union and NATO by the end of the term of office if possible of this government. We want to contribute to the development of benevolent relations and to clashing with all neighbouring countries on the principles of full equality and reciprocity. We also want to improve all kinds of relationships with the most important factors and countries in the world. Croatia is in a stimulating but sensitive geopolitical position as well. The current processes in the European Union, the relationship between the leading European forces, the relations between Europe and the United States, the extended crisis in the Middle East and other crisis zones with an impact on the world economy and oil prices, the current state of relations between the world's leading economic forces and the objective fermentation of the latent crisis situation in our neighbouring Southeast Europe, are all essential reasons for the extreme and responsible foreign policy. It is therefore necessary to ensure an active monitoring of the development of international opportunities, to prepare a full national security strategy and to develop an active external policy and diplomatic action on these grounds. Our priorities are well-known, and we will make them come from national interests in an open, constructive dialogue with international partners and will be guided by the following principles and objectives. First membership in the European Union, NATO. We will have an active policy to speed up negotiations and achieve full membership in the European Union and NATO by the end of the term of office. The government will speed up internal reform processes and preparatory procedures for the start of negotiations after the EU's entry in the first half of 2004. Here I want to thank the government so far for everything it has done so that this avi which we all expect and which we all hope for, which will follow and should follow in the first half of 2004, means somewhere in the spring and after that, if everything goes well and that we all hope for a decision by the Council of Ministers of the European Union and on the date of the start of the negotiations. I think it's a joint job, and therefore I thank the current government for the work it's done in that direction. Relations with neighbours, the government will contribute to the permanent stabilisation of this part of Europe, by developing good neighbourly relations based on equality and reciprocity. We will also come from the European Union's decision of the 2003 Thessaloniki summit to open a clear perspective for all countries of this part of Europe to join the European Union. We support the entry of each country from our neighbourhood into, towards the European Union and NATO on the basis of individual approaches and individual achievements. No one should wait for another but, according to their achievements, to be valued within the European Union of NATO. We are ready to address remaining open issues with Serbia-Montenegro in the interest of further developing the mutual relations between states and peoples. We also want to develop friendly and good neighbourly relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina. In line with the Dayton Peace Agreement, the government will worry and have a high degree of responsibility for the state and position of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina that must maintain its status as an equal, constitutional and sovereign people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Through obligations with official Sarajevo, with an international community as well as political leadership of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The government will speed up resolving open issues in relations with Slovenia, on the principles of equality and international law and dialogue aimed at a common contribution of the two countries to the dissemination of the European idea. We want to try again in bilateral talks to resolve open issues if it doesn't work out, there is always time for arbitration. Co-operation with the International Criminal Court in Den Hague. The government will cooperate with the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia with the International Criminal Court in all individual legal proceedings in accordance with the Statute of the Court, with the mandate of the Security Council and with its own legislation of the Republic of Croatia. We believe that Croatia has already established a stable and credible legal system that can assume the obligations of the International Criminal Court in Den Hague. The new relations between the ladies and gentlemen and the new Europe are opening up new development opportunities for us, and we will achieve this historic opportunity by building Croatia as a politically stable, legally regulated and secure democratic European state. Let this goal be called under the flag of the common foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia. Dear ladies and gentlemen, before you is a government that has no illusions about difficulties or makes easy promises about their overcoming, this is the government of real and responsible people ready for serious and tireless work. I call on all social partners, trade unions and employers, all political and social forces and groups, all of our citizens to move together into a new phase of shaping Croatia's future. I sent a letter to the President of the Parliament requesting a vote of confidence from the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 97(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the President of the Republic of Croatia, entrusted me with the mandate for the composition of the new Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia I propose the following members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia: dr.sc. Ivo Sanader for Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor for Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, Prof. dr.sc. Mr Andrija Hebrang, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Health and Social Care, Prof. Dr. Miomir Zuzula as Minister of Foreign Affairs Ivan Šuker as Minister of Finance, Berislav Roncevic as Minister of Defence, Dr. Marijana Mlinaric for Home Affairs Minister Vesna Skare-Ozbolt for Justice Minister Branko Vukelic for Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Božidara Kalmetu for Minister of Tourism, Sea, Tourism, Pormeta and Development, Petra Cobankovic for Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, Marina Matulović-Dropulić for Minister of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, Dr.sc. Dragan Primorac for Minister of Science, Education and Sports, Mr.sc. Božu Biskupić for Minister of Culture and Mr. Sc. Mr Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic as Minister of European Integration in accordance with Article 109(2). This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I request the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to vote on the trust of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the proposed composition, and I propose to the Croatian Parliament that it be trusted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 107(2) Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I am delivering the programme of government and for the term of office as well as the résumés of the proposed members of the future government. I thank you for your attention and ask for your confidence in this government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u299	I thank the Prime Minister, Mr. Ivy Sanader. I'm opening a debate. The first in line is a club representative IDS with a respected representative of Damir Cain. Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u300	Mr. President, I'm asking you nicely on behalf of the club break of half an hour since this program, which is very extensive, is on the bench and because of one more herbal preparation and discussion of the new government program, we think we have the right to seek a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u301	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a club break? IDS. Then I set a 30-minute break. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. I'd like an esteemed representative of Damir Cain on behalf of the IDS Club. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u303	Honored representatives of the government, the esteemed Mr. Future Prime Minister, distinguished gentlemen of the Parliament. First. The IDS will not support the HDZ government. Second. Just because IDS won't support the HDZ government doesn't mean that IDS, that as a man, I wouldn't want that government to make all its promises come true. If that were to happen, for example. If pensions were 50% of the average salary next year, which I believe is impossible, so perhaps even a little too much public expectations would certainly be better for my parents and country as a whole, but about that later. Third. It is clear that in 2003, 2004, no policy could be conducted in Croatia in the past decade. That period is definitely behind us. We heard something similar a little while ago from Mr. Sanader's future prime minister. However, the grotesque people who received the mandate for the government's composition de facto are the same... 10 years ago. [[You don't understand.]] It is not disputed that HDZ won the election. He won... It's not working. [[Mike malfunctions]] Does it work?
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u304	Just one moment to see what's going on with the microphones.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u305	It is not disputed that HDZ won the election. He won more mandates than the SDP and HSLS on 3 January 2000, and it is normal that the president entrusted the HDZ with the mandate for the government's composition. The other thing is, I don't understand some minority advocates or some of the pensioners giving them support. But it's not up to me to judge. I cannot understand that minority MPs are going to support the government without getting a double right to vote. But what am I saying? There's no one in my constituency - Istria, islands, Rijeka - who won't admit that I'll call him a plebiscite citizen... for the change of government. [[You don't understand.]] But we'd also like the new government to understand that I don't know which times happened again under quotes of plebiscite and in Istria for those values that the IDS has always advocated. I'll tell you this one too. Citizens in these areas are deeply respected by the Croatian state, for which only during the period of 43, 4, 5, 17, 000 Partisans fell. But they plebiscitarianly want to do more on their own, with their own decisions, and keep that in mind. Gentlemen, it is not normal for the County of Istrian budget to amount to 195 million kuna. It is even less normal that 90% of fiscal revenues go the way of the central government. Solidarity is necessary, none of it escapes. Yes, of course. I'm aware he's in that space where he is, for example. unemployment at this hour below 6%. In Croatia around 19%, it is certainly easier than elsewhere, although our pensioners always warn me to say that with 1,000 kuna, it is equally difficult to live in Buzet, and in Pula, both in Slavonski Brod and in Osijek, with the difference that their children get to work more easily in Istria. I am aware that in Istria the only one with the City of Zagreb has a gross product above the Republic average is better somewhere else. I am aware that in Istria, which is the only one with export coverage of almost 100% where exports from 92 are constantly on the rise of 10 to 15% per year where the classical amount per capita is $3000 500, with tourism of $12,000 slightly easier than elsewhere. But that's why, but also because of the results and these choices where the West is -- I'll say it out loud -- for the former coalition, and for the same country for the right-wing parties, or how we like to say it today, the conservative parties in Croatia need to be decentralised because the time ahead will lead to growing divisions. I said, it's 2003 today. It's not 93 today. Today, the prime minister is talking about an application for the European Union. The 93rd was about war. There was talk of Bosnia, refugees, etc. Today, the prime minister said about continuing to reduce the dependence of local self-government on the central government, and we want to believe that this will be the case. Fourth. He is pleased that one of the Croatian priorities of this government is joining NATO, the European Union. Accordingly, I can announce that IDS will absolutely vote for the so-called. European laws, and for the others we will see clearly. I thought he was so-called. The calls we've had to listen to in the media to give the government 100 days or 6 months to spare would not have been a good echo. Let's not assume that the Parliament -- to make a joke -- is turning into some new socialist alliance with a new avant-garde. But joke aside. I'm not running away from the fact that the biggest mortgage to the former government was a whole series of unfounded promises from those of 200 thousand new jobs, pensioners' debt returns, the one about the revision of conversion, and the reduction of public spending by 17% in 2000 that I'm not even talking about. Also, there is something else to notice. What did the former government do? It should be said that gross social output is growing despite the fact that taxes and contributions have been significantly reduced since 2000 or 99th here. The profit tax from 35% of 99th was reduced to 20%. The contribution to pension insurance from 21.5% was reduced to 20%. Health insurance contributions from 18% were reduced to 16% as well as income taxes, i.e. that non-taxable part increased. And it would be great if the new government would continue to cut taxes and contributions by the same amount, and not maybe scare the citizens with the Financial Police. It's true, it's growing external debt. But it will grow under the new government. And the argument that one debt is the state. public debt, and that other obligations are businesses and citizens we will probably hear from future authorities as well. For example. The former government said it took a billion and a half dollars in credit to resolve the indifference of the former government, or the former government, and that it was in charge of an additional $2 billion to build new highways. Thus, the government will likely argue that in order to complete some other shares it will have to borrow $2.6 billion. The truth is, 200 thousand new jobs have not been opened. It's only 40 grand open. But before January 3, about 165 thousand people worked and didn't get paid, and today it's about 50 grand. True, it is quite unnecessary for mothers who are employed to pay child benefits for the other 6 months from 2,000 kuna to 1,000 kuna. But after January 3rd, the fee is paid by unemployed mothers and craftsmen, and 50% of the users have increased the child's allowance. The truth is, children’s allowance after January 3rd was lost by students. But by January 3, only children were employed by children, and today they receive all children or 150 thousand children more than by January 3rd. It's also true that pensions are slowly growing, insolently slow. But after January 3, there was no more retirement waiting for 30 or more days. Right, pensions grew from 38% to 44% about today. And it's normal that this population can't be satisfied. But as I'm sure the pensioners of the County of Istria, including the Primorje-Gorski are not for HDZ, I'm even more sure that the pensions in 2007 will not reach 70% of the average salary, and next year 50% of the average salary. The 2004 gross social product will be higher by 10 billion kuna than it is this year. This will say that the 2004 budget will be higher by about 5 billion, but that this government will place all 5 billion kunas minus two, three to the extent that it is likely to go down because of VAT cuts or all taxed gross social product is going to retire. For us at the IDS, that would be utopia. We welcome the announced VAT reduction from 22% to 20%. We hope that decision will be made quickly. We welcome from the HDZ programme and the reduction of taxes and contributions, and we hope that it will be quick on the agenda. We also welcome yesterday's announced reduction of state administration by 10 to 15%. The IDS will also welcome the nearly increase in pensions for defenders and Croatian soldiers. I want to remind you, the average pension of the Croatian Army in 99 was 3.537 kuna and 2003. 2.909 kuna or even 628 kuna less than four years ago. The average pension of the Croatian defender in 99 was HRK 5.160, 2003. 212 kuna is less than 4,948. All other pensions have grown significantly. We will welcome the return of the disabled to the participants of the Homeland War, etc. We will also make it clear that the men of the People's Liberation War are also returned to their rights because the hand of a young man killed in the vicinity of Vukovar 91 is as valuable as the hand of a fallen partisan who lost his hand in the vicinity of Buzet or Labin 43, fighting for the ideals of Lagina, Dobrila or, say, Fleg. Honored President, Your Honor. Croatia must be one of the biggest objectives of the European Union. We need to understand that the European Union is not there to give anything to anyone, to give. Although with 2004. Croatia also enters the PHARE programme and... paro programs etc. I'm looking forward to it since 2005. Slovenia, Hungary, the Czech Republic, etc. be part of the European Union. I'm sorry it won't be us. Croatia will be additionally on hold if it fails on the first of several Hague tests. In public, several people are mentioned. Some of them were very popular at the time. So please let us not go to The Hague because Croatia could easily be in the position in which we were in the 98th or 99th years. Let's not let Croatia deny another Gotovina defence before the Hague Court as it was Anti Gotovina 98, because this will deprive Croatia of any chance of joining the European Union. In the late 1990s, the international community de facto isolated Croatia, including with the aim of changing power. Today, due to high credit debt, this country would not endure another similar adventure, more than we are all aware here that next year about $17.5 billion or 2.5 billion should be paid back to domestic or foreign creditors, which is every fifth budget, which the Croatian budget will not be able to settle without new borrowing. Not even a new privatisation will help. I also want to believe that there will continue to be a return of the refugee population, approximately 190 thousand people, that they will be actively resolved so-called. It's a tenant question. Speaking of privatisation, 2956 companies have been privatized to this day. 3. January administration of that number privatized them precisely to number 36 plus 16% of Croatian Telekom plus 25% plus one part of Ina. So I'd say once again, I'd like this government to succeed, I'd like this government to return pensions and bring them in line with 70% of the average salary, raise maternity benefits, raise pensions to the defenders, reduce VAT, reduce taxes, reduce the state administration by 10 to 15% of the people in these public services, and there'll be another 30 percent of the current defence ministry if we want to reach NATO standards. I'd like interest to keep falling, so that consumer power doesn't shrink. It is not disputed and it should be acknowledged, economic opportunities are better today than 99. Political opportunities in our environment are also better today than they were 99. International opportunities are far more favourable to us today than they were four years ago, although perhaps they were from the European Union and the United States of America de facto sending us messages to put together a government. It's growing gross and it's easier to run the country today than it's 99th, and next year it's easier to run the country than it is in 2003, but I don't want to believe that it could, therefore, get into any kind of adventure when The Hague does. I want to believe that no new NATO bases will be opened in Croatia, i.e. that young people from Croatia will not be sent to Iraq, although I acknowledge what the President said that the United States has played a huge role in stopping the war in these areas. I also want to believe that it won't come to Istria as raw as it seemed in the last decade. I wish the government every happiness, every success. I am aware that their success depends on success and country as a whole. The government may be lucky it's not a coalition, it's de facto unilateral so it'll make decisions easier, etc. And just one more sentence. As far as IDS is concerned, I would like the Government to understand that another one has happened in Istria in a series of plebiscites and that it binds us to representatives from Istria, but also to people in power, and I want to believe in maximum correct relations and those relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u306	I thank Mr. Damir Cain. I'd like to ask Mr. Representative Zlatko Tomcic to speak on behalf of the HSS Representatives' Club. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u307	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the council. We are in a real situation today that arises every time parliamentary elections are over. The government needs to vote in confidence, it needs to form a government. For us in the HSS, it is a matter of some urgency and responsibility towards the moment Croatia is in place. Any difficulty, any reflection on any sub-warrants or difficulties in forming the Government cause direct damage to Croatia as well as to the country, as well as to the Croatian economy. As we have heard today from Mr. Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, we have been listening for the past 13 years on several occasions. As a rule, these programmes are of principle character, and as a rule, it is difficult to put up some kind of objection except perhaps some details about which the prime minister himself does not want to speak in detail of how to maintain his right to work and to create a policy of his government, to pass laws, possibly some of the elements he has expressed and changed in the programme. For this reason, because of this fact that it is difficult to put some principled objection to the principle programme, the HSS will accept this programme, but the HSS says in advance that the implementation of the programme will very closely monitor through several elements. For the HSS, it will be a priority to evaluate the government's future work through three issues: through the economic policy implemented by this government, through the legal and social security of citizens, so through everything that this government will do in this sense through the policy of the international position of the Republic of Croatia, we, above all, think about the dynamics of accession to the European Union and NATO alliance, but also the relationship with neighbours in this region of Southeast Europe whose stability depends on both our stability and whose stability we can have a significant impact on. For us in the HSS is the primary issue of economic policy. A country with a healthy economic policy that gives high growth rates, which creates a high gross domestic product, with an economic policy that generates excess income over expenditures, can also count on solving much easier social aspects and all of those aspects financed from the state budget of education, health, culture and everything else. Therefore, the economic policy that will be applied by the future government will be a priority for evaluation within the HSS club, whether or not future moves can be supported. We in the HSS are certainly in one place, and we have made it very clear to the public for a whole series of months, we do not give up or give up on that fact. We believe that all the economic models that Croatia has applied over the past 13 years have exhausted all their opportunities for rapid economic progress. Not because they were bad at a given time, not because they were wrong in all their elements but because, for today, Croatia is increasingly coming under certain discipline or relations towards the European Union, according to the WTO through the free trade agreement, through CEFTA, etc. It is becoming increasingly difficult to look for a maneuvering space to run some kind of integrated national economy. But this is exactly what we see the possibility for the Croatian national economy to recover from the consequences that occurred over 13 years, and these consequences are primarily high unemployment rates and high internal and external responsibilities. What's the consequence? The result is the production deficit in this country. For years, this country has lost its production, and this country must first of all turn to revitalising its manufacturing economic sector in relation to the service sector which is dominant at the moment. It's actually a fundamental element of the HSS programme, which is a fundamental element that we suggest to the future government. To try to lead such an economic policy, which will primarily reduce the production sector deficit, which will thus reduce the unemployment rate, and there are models that have calculated that the unemployment rate in this country is. Without additional borrowing, it can reduce 2.5% a year. That means, dear friends, turning first of all their own resources. Of course, it is not polite today from this speaker's office and to those who will lead the government to suggest how economic policy will lead, but I would just like to remind myself that these resources have a lot. First of all, it should establish a strategy for the development of certain economic branches in a way that will not be subject to any individual assessments, discretionary assessments and changes from case to case. So this country needs to know, and I believe that the future government will do this, it must know what it expects from certain economic branches, tourism, agriculture, wood industry or any other economic branch. According to us, vertical integration of certain economic branches must also be possible, the financial market must be demonopolised, the grey economy in which there are reserves between 1.5% and 2% of gross domestic product, provided it is eliminated. There must be a different privatisation policy that will not be primarily turned over to sales but primarily facing new investments, by looking for those customers who are willing to capitalize, invest, in that way actually resuscitate this situation with a high unemployment rate. Of course there will also be a question in the future economic policy of the government, the role of the state itself. Whether we're talking about incentives, whether we're talking about incentives, whether we're talking about direct state investments, loans, guarantees, guarantees, etc. Of course, monetary policy and the role of the Croatian National Bank will also have to be taken into account. Let me not speak in detail about the individual elements of economic policy, simply because I think it is not polite, that a future government that has the sole right to lead the kind of economic policy that it considers necessary to lead. And it is up to us to assess whether this economic policy is in line with our expectations or not. That economic policy that will allow relatively simple, rapid problem-solving, which means reducing employment levels, reducing the level of debt, changing the unemployment rate. That economic policy that will successfully enable the creation of surplus revenue over expenditure in the state budget, eliminate social tensions, help those social categories that are most needed, successfully solve all those stories we have been talking about for years, more investment in knowledge, greater investment in education, greater investment in science. This can only be the result of successful economic policy management. So, for definitive views on whether this government will receive support, not today at today's session but in the future, the HSS depends primarily on economic policy. I would refer to just one detail of the program that I was able to read for this short time, which is to keep the rate of growth of the gross domestic product. If they were to split up, if they were so petty, then the HSS might say it doesn't satisfy us. However, on the basis of one particular element, we will certainly not say that we cannot accept this programme because it is in line with our expectations. We believe that in this country, in the way we speak, a radical change in economic policy can be led by a state economy in such a way that these extremely good growth rates that have been achieved in the past and in the previous year can get additional, additional impulses. We believe that by reducing the unemployment rate of 2.5%, using all these resources I'm talking about, that the GDP in this country can reach a fantastic level of 7% to 9% in the next few years. There is an example of such leadership of the national economy, both in the nearest neighbourhood of the Republic of Croatia and in some other countries. Which in this very way, turning to themselves, regardless of certain disciplines set by the International Community, have managed to lead an economic policy that has allowed growth rates of 8 and 9%. The countries today are located at $13,000 per capital, some at more than $30,000 per capital of domestic production. I see no reason that Croatia can achieve this explosive economic development within a few years, and this will be, I repeat, a third time, a fundamental element on which the HSS will assess future government moves. Today we're going to give government support, and for every future move, this will be the starting points I've said today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u308	I would like to thank the esteemed Mr. Representative Zlatko Tomcic. I ask the Vice-President of the House, Mr. Matu Arlovic, to take his word on behalf of the SDP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u309	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDP Club, we will not talk about the pre-election and election promises and our electoral programme, but we will talk about this programme, which the mandater presented in his address to the Croatian Parliament. We would like to point out that this is a time when it is directed and made beautiful wishes to our citizens and everyone, but we believe that this programme is too general and contains too much of the beautiful desires that we support, and that it is not concrete enough and that it is not enough to actually see if it is realistic. This programme builds on the successes and achievements of macroeconomic policy and political and social stability achieved by the previous government and some of the projects that the previous government has already done or is working on, but the fact is that it is shown in the form of desires, not in form, and objectives, rather than in the form of programming how to actually achieve the government's programme in the next 4 years. The second thing we would like to point out in particular is that this wish programme is very broad when it comes to meeting certain needs and interests of individual persons and citizens or individual groups in the Republic of Croatia. It is very broad in relation to social giving, and we only welcome it to be sufficiently well founded in the economic and social reality that surrounds us, in which we live and from which we seem to be, it seems that this is impossible to realise, and unless we continue to borrow and at the same time implement privatisation with the goal of actually making those funds that will be placed on the revenue side of the programme or the budget actually turning into personal and public spending, and not investment investments, and that means that the promises that can be read from the programme, which we have heard about the growth rate actually stand on very flimsy feet and that it is impossible to realize them. The third thing we would like to stress in particular is that the programme itself is contradictory. It is impossible to set up a programme without being balanced from the aspect of social giving and from the aspect of economic growth and development that will cover these social benefits and which will be able to secure the revenue side of the budget so that they can realise it. In such a situation, we are sure that this programme, regardless of its beautiful desires, can actually be difficult to come up with in realisation and that it will have a significant change in this programme already in the first year of work of this government, and that we are not talking any further. Fourthly, we must especially point out that this programme continues with promises that do not have real coverage and in such a situation it is not good to present or create false hopes with citizens because our citizens are expecting too much anyway, given the real possibilities of an economic or social community. And that's understandable. This is psychologically justified from the point of view of citizens because citizens want to have an individual and family standard that applies to the developed countries of Europe that we seek, where we want to enter the European Union and the NATO system to learn, but it is also realistic and must rely on what we have, what we have and what we can do to create and make it possible to live on. If otherwise we do not act this way then it is quite clear that this wish programme is made on what is expected or what is to be done, but without real coverage in our own creation or in the creation of this economy and its possibilities, which means new borrowing and, if I may say so, use this concept already in a certain way not to sell through privatisation but to privatization for consumption and social giving, not for the purpose of developing and restoring the economy and further creating and opening new jobs and employment. Starting from that, starting from yesterday you start reforms in a certain way of government and state administration through laws that we have assessed are actually bad, that they will not ensure that the quality of state administration that will ensure that the state administration is small, efficient, efficient and fast and rational, we of the SDP have made a decision that we cannot support this programme, and thus we will not be able to vote for the government that is, which is the mandated mandater. We will be against this government and this program. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u310	I thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Arlovic, and he has a word on behalf of the Club of Representatives, Mr Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u311	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, members of the Croatian Government, Mr. Prime Minister of the future Croatian Government and, of course, candidates for members of the future Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. This programme, which was presented by the Prime Minister, is, of course, a principled programme and in this sense, it is difficult to expect in the first session or at the time of the presentation of the Government a detailed programme, but of course, it would be ideal for it to be a detailed programme that can then be really discussed about the programme. Of course, this can only be a political debate, so the programme can be accepted because there are no big differences between us in principle. When I tell us, I mean all relevant Croatian policy components, but it can also be rejected because it is principled. I would like to highlight a few things from the opening presentation of the Prime Minister who, of course, should be welcomed, but should also point to some illogicalities or difficulties in achieving these principles. First of all, full support announces that full membership in the European Union and NATO is the goal of this government by the end of the term of office, and in this sense the government will have our full support, but should also point out that the government, as Mr President said, will reduce tax burden and reduce public spending. Without these two things and of course the development of entrepreneurship that is related to this, we can hardly expect the development of the Republic of Croatia but not by going too deep into the past should only be noted because it will be a certain topic that we will be facing here for the next months and years, that this is not in line with what has actually been promised by these pre-election agreements, or what the Prime Minister, future Prime Minister or Government has committed. Agreements already concluded with some parties and individuals who support the government are actually in collegiate with the government reducing public spending. That's gonna be pretty hard to pull off. We will closely monitor this process, but remains a fundamental fact if we do not have the strength to reduce public consumption we will have a difficult space for development, which is, of course, a condition for economic development, which is therefore a condition for the overall prosperity of the Republic of Croatia. We particularly welcome the announcement that this government will work to develop entrepreneurship, and we are particularly pleased with the statement by the Prime Minister that the female entrepreneur should become an integral part of society. This truly great potential of entrepreneurs that women carry in themselves should be used, of course, for the overall development of society, and we particularly welcome that Mr. Prime Minister, since the Prime Minister announced this, is, of course, in the context of the development of total entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia, because it is, of course, the basis on which the further development of the Republic of Croatia can be expected, not only in terms of the growth of gross national products, but also in any other sense, the right social policy, quality social policy and policies in these other segments of the state drive, can rest solely on development. Therefore, in this sense, this declarative position of the Prime Minister, the future Prime Minister, has our full support. But I must say that Libra will be clear, clean, and I would say fair opposition. It is natural for the opposition to think that it can be better and that, for these reasons, not for programming reasons, there is no support for the government, so we will set ourselves up. We believe that other approaches are legitimate, but that will be our approach. So we'll be a clear and pure opposition. Which doesn't mean that those government moves that we consider to be good, quality from our programme position we won't support. And even in general, if the overall direction of the government is excellent from our point of view, but equally or even more so, we will point out the failures, errors of the government and, of course, what we think the government does in that sense does not do enough or does not do at all. So it's a natural, pure position and we're going to insist on that position. But of course, everything the government is doing will be valued from the point of view of our programme and everything the government does will not have our advanced negative position. I wish that, there was no talk here, Mr. Prime Minister was talking about the state of freedom of the media. I would like this government to safeguard the country's reaching level of democratic development and to strengthen and expand it. I think it's a big deal, and that's what our general attitude towards this government will also be based on. I don't think there's any reason for Croatia in this sense for democratic development, for the adoption of democratic forms of social life to continue. And of course, what we have achieved over the past 13 years should certainly be kept safe. And in this sense, of course, we will follow very, very closely how the government acts as one of the important segments of the common state structure. In particular, we will evaluate the government according to its attitude towards Parliament. There is no reason why Parliament in Croatia is not expanding and not strengthening its role, its supervisory function in many segments is almost entirely underdeveloped. So, of course, this is not just up to the government, but also the Government will be able to take a step forward in this sense, and therefore we will be able to evaluate the overall result of the work of the Croatian government, and of course in Parliament we will act to improve its internal mechanisms and modes of work, so that, apart from its legislative function, which has been overly stressed in our opinion that it can also fulfil its supervisory function and not only in these classic segments of parliamentary supervision, but in all other segments of society, which is not even widely used in the right way, in our past 13-year parliamentary life. Therefore, it is a very important segment on which we will act both in relation to the Government and equally in Parliament itself. As far as concrete programming areas are concerned, our actions and monitoring of the government will, in this sense, be particularly focused on education, basic, medium and high science, as a matter of fact, impact area. Then, on the issue of economic development, i.e. entrepreneurship, especially women's entrepreneurship, which has already been said here. Of course, with what we associate with fast privatisation, privatisation in Croatia has been slowed down for no reason in recent years. If you want to have clear relations in economic life, if you really want to develop Croatia quickly, then you must have a clear view of privatisation. Privatisation today after all the experiences we've had can be both rapid and pure and if the government manages to find the right balance in that sense, then it will be one of the reasons for its future success. Equally regional development and decentralisation, Croatia is now ripe for a new step in decentralisation. The past, or still the current Croatian government in this regard has made important moves, often without serious strategic thinking, but with goodwill. Today, after all of this, I think that decentralisation of regionalism, the regional development of which there has been some talk is what is certainly our political future, and this will be the second, or third area in which we will value the work of this Croatian government. and, of course, we'll keep an eye on the development of the Justice Department. The reforms in the judiciary that have begun should also continue to be speedier and stronger and better if possible but without the judiciary that will be reformed, which will really be the right instrument for solving all those problems that cannot be solved in any other way, we will not be able to achieve these fundamental objectives that the president spoke of, or future Prime Minister and I have talked about in this brief presentation. These are therefore segments on which we will monitor, in particular the work of the Government, of course I repeat that we will do so on these fundamental issues of the democratic development of the country and of Parliamentarianism, as well as of course on the overall action. and finally this Croatia, the future Croatian government as well as every Croatian government, we want full success, and we will try to make this government here, so through our parliamentary action, work better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u312	I would like to thank Mr. Radosh, the esteemed representative. On behalf of the HSP, the word has an esteemed representative, Ante Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u313	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian party is the right party which is one of the greatest obligations to respect the people's will. Because especially when holding elections, it is then that the most qualitative way of presenting what the Croatian people in that period of their development want it to appear. This obligation that we, as a party of rights, have always been made out of our position to respect the will of the Croatian people, has always led us in the direction that, after every parliamentary election in the democratic Croatian state, we have always supported a new government that would form. So it was since our first entry in the elections in the Croatian Parliament in 92, until 3 January 2000 when the Croatian Party of Rights always respected the will of the Croatian electoral body, although often we felt that we should have been better, too, that we should have been. However, the voter's will is as we both voted in favour of different governments in 92 and 95 and 2000, some of which were the HDZ unilateral governments, and some were also multi-party governments like the Government on January 3rd, because it can really be difficult to argue with the constitution of both the parliament and the government of the will of the electoral body in Croatia. There were times when things were very clear. When it was more than obvious that there was a clear parliamentary majority, when there was a situation when it was seen and 3 January years ago and the previous parliamentary majority that it was unquestionably who had the legality and legitimacy of forming a government. However, I would like to remind you that, also in the first shooting of the Government of January 3, that in the formation, overcoming of the relations in parliament and the formation of the new Government of President Racan, that at that time we were either ignorant or anti-or abstention, I know that we did not support that new government for the reason that it was already questionable, the legality of not but the legitimacy of whether in this way a new Croatian government could be formed. However, the fact that we were in all the situations so far voted for a single government did not bother us at all that later in the perspective of all those events we were very sharp opposition, very often to the Croatian Assembly alone in certain strategic issues, from privatisation, co-operation with The Hague Court, the Law of Forgiveness, which voted only by opposition from the Croatian parties in the last ten years. As a result, respecting the will of voters is undeniable to us that the voter's will was for the Croatian Democratic Community to draw up a government in this new assembly of the Croatian Parliament. However, we will also, for the sake of the public and for the sake of all of us and to the end, be open to the fact that it is indisputable that the voter's will was to draw up the HDZ government together with Croatian parties, the parties of the right-wing centre in Croatia, because it was finally in our opinion that it was one of the implicit obligations and parties of the former parliamentary opposition which are their own... So, half a year before the election, until the election itself, that's the way they acted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not wanting to get into the reasons after the elections, which is why it all didn't happen, which were all relationships, situations and wanting to create a good atmosphere for the period ahead of us, which is very complex, which is very difficult, which has been very challenging, in a situation where HDZ today is in a position to create a government in the way of creating a parliamentary majority, which in Croatia the party of rights is quite doubtful. Not taking away the right of each party to create a majority of its own in the way it wants and wants us to hold that the way the parliamentary majority of the government's vote of confidence in us is questionably because in our party we believe that individual agreements and agreements that are not all clear can burden the Croatian budget, can burden Croatian finances and therefore one of our questions if we can get an answer and if we do not again have anything to say about how much financial simulation of how much individual debt obligations will cost Croatian budgets and Croatian taxpayers, will we be able to endure it financially? The second agreement was also with the presidents of the national minorities, with the Serbian democratic independent party mainly related to certain agreements that draw certain financial difficulties. It is absolutely acceptable for us in the party of rights, and the obligation of all of us must be to return private ownership, it cannot be questionable in the democratic state, but the question of the pace of financial costs and finally the care of all those Croatian exiles who have been expelled from Bosnia and Herzegovina who live today in assets belonging to the owners of the Serb national minority, so we are interested as a party whether we can get some indicative figures, amounting to what it would be in such a short time if the obligation is until the sixth month following, at least according to what we have seen in the media as to how much we are going to do and how they think to impose these financial resources. Since I said we cannot be against the will of the Croatian electoral body, we cannot vote against the Croatian government, otherwise we have never done so against any Croatian government but because of the elements and ways in which the parliamentary majority was post-election we as a party will retain the right to refrain from voting in the government, we will follow, we will wait, we will see, we will warn and you can certainly know that the HSP will not be a party that will not plant the clips on the new Croatian government. In fact, with many of our initiatives and proposals, we will make sure that this programme, which you have very ambitiously presented to the Croatian public, is realized and I believe that we too will have some solutions that will be in our opinion and better than what is proposed here, more specifically, since January when after Christmas and New Year's holidays we start working again, we will be very ambitious as an opposition party pushing the Croatian government into the achievements of the programme that is presented here today. Since I have said a few words about a principled relationship with the Croatian government, I would like to give a few observations and to present the current prime minister of the Croatian government, who is likely to want to clarify or perhaps get some further explanations that we consider to be quite important for the prominent. So we would like to make it even clearer to insist that Croatia is treated as a special individual case in the EU enlargement strategy to Southeast Europe. Respect for all obligations arising from the Stabilisation and Association Agreement we support but the use of all diplomatic and political means to protect Croatian national interests in the processes of applying this agreement, for example in certain situations, to prescribe referendums on issues such as sale of real estate and agricultural land to foreigners until Croatia becomes a member of the European Union. The prime minister also noted that he would try to build good neighbourly relations with neighbouring countries and urgently resolve all existing disputes in accordance with international law and provisions of all ratified international conventions and international law contracts. However, we should insist on avoiding the problem in the package because this is a special example with Slovenia where we have had a lot of problems because there has always been a number of problems that we have had with them, and although the prime minister mentioned that it is not necessary to immediately go towards arbitration, it would still be good to stress that deadlines are still being set and this means that if by the half of the term of office of this Government it is not agreed that it would then reach for international arbitration. There was a speech about The Hague. So, we must mention that our position on this programme that the government has put forward is in principle supported by us. Respect for all international obligations of Croatia concerning the Hague tribunal, but we stress that Croatia must also use all diplomatic, legal and political opportunities that would allow recognition of the Republic of Croatia's position as a friend of the court in all cases, processes that Croatian officers are charged with crimes of ethnic cleansing, crimes against humanity or other crimes committed under the principle of command or political responsibility. I think we should also go to an urgent change in the system of communication with the main prosecutor's office in order to avoid the partners of the prosecution in the Republic of Croatia being the President of the Republic and Prime Minister already being the judicial authorities and heads of the Co-operation Office. And in particular, it is necessary to insist, we insist on it or we will see what the government's position is, providing legal information assistance and support to the UN tribunal's defendants and their legal teams. There have been speeches in this opening presentation of the mandate and on national security. So, we support the principled programme that has been put forward, but it is important in our opinion to reiterate that, with the amendment of the Security Services Act, it is necessary to create really professional and effective intelligence communities and civil and military but with emphasis on business economic intelligence, prevention of publication, it is left out in the programme and I would like to stress this, preventing the publication of state and military secrets and the use of intelligence communities in political calculations. The priority of the Republic of Croatia in the area of defence must be the modernisation of the armed forces and the formation of a coast guard. However, we will point out some of the elements later in an individual debate. You're the president, Mr. Prime Minister, who pointed out that he would... The Croatian military and we believe that there was no... actual reform but reduction, bureaucratic reduction of members of the Croatian Army, so perhaps later we could say a sentence more if you are given. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And finally, I think it's important to mention privatisation. A new privatisation strategy is mentioned, however, it obviously did not highlight the adoption of a new Privatisation Act. We believe that the privatisation model can be changed by a new law and by a law which would in principle oblige owners to fulfil their obligations to take over by a privatisation contract. And do everything to oppose the new Croatian government, creating monopolies that threaten national interests, especially in telecommunications. What would be extremely important in our opinion is that, within a short period of time, the Law on Transfer of Authorities is adopted in order to achieve the objective of preventing stories of rematchism or not rematchism, or that, after each election, we would not have a situation of anxiety in the system of government, but rather that once clearly define what professional professional functions are and what are political officials. And what is extremely important to us as foreigners is that it may not be mentioned and in order to strengthen, I would say political relations in Croatia,... political life in Croatia, it is the adoption of a new Law on political parties in the Republic of Croatia, which would regulate rules on the establishment, registration, name, action and financing of political parties in the same way as is regulated in the countries of the European Union. By caring for all the rules of civil society and respecting equality before the law and fundamental human rights. So I'm going to conclude, I can see that I'm getting a yellow light. The HSP will be an opposition to the Government of the Republic of Croatia but the opposition who believes that the formation of both Parliament and government has stopped this period of anxiety and anxiety that exists in the formation of the government and that the time of opposition will take place when we follow what the Government will do, when you do well, you will have safe support, when it is bad there will be criticism, but we will try as much as possible to give concrete solutions to situations and relations in Croatian society with our work in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u314	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Djapic. Before the next speaker, I'll read a note. The session of the Committee for Elections, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament will be held after today's session in Hall 13. There's a HNS Club, a PGS, a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u315	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Coastal Mountain Alliance, just a few notes regarding the proposed programme. Due to yesterday's call by Mr Sanader to the highest degree of consent and cooperation in this House, but also to the Government, in order for Croatia to have both political peace and stability, I must express a surprise that such an important document as the government's programme was divided today into benches at 10 o'clock and we expected according to this call to get it at the end of the work so that we could really see the integrity of this programme. The Government Programme is indeed looking for a serious analysis if we are to make a contribution to our debate or to help the promoter himself to be even better, which is really not possible in this short time. I would like to say that in the future, we took yesterday and accepted Mr. Sanader's call for full co-operation and cooperation when our goals, ideas and programmes, i.e., more concrete programs will be agreed upon. But I kindly ask you not to surprise us in the future with such important documents on the benches because then we won't be able to comply with this invitation, thus helping you. So, because of the fact itself, and also as a sign of a certain protest, we are not going to have a detailed discussion today about certain parts of the program, but I will only make three observations that we have noticed. First, this is a programme of goals and desires that contains neither ways nor dynamics nor strategy of its achievement. The first response to dynamics and strategy will be obtained I suppose in the draft budget for next year and then we will be able to look back, we will certainly do so on this programme. Secondly, this programme of wishes and objectives could be in large part when the issue of economics and social care or politics is in general and in terms of lower taxes, greater social rights. The government takes over the country when the economic growth rate is constantly 5 and more percent, I recall in 2000 that the government took over the country's management when economic growth was minus 1% and I want to believe that all those promises in the social sphere are the result of further economic growth if not five and more percent and not in any way printing money from primary emissions. And thirdly, in my view, this programme does not have three important, concrete elements either from the HDZ programme or from the pre-election campaign negotiations in the assembly of the parliamentary majority. And that's the first one. There is no concrete proposal to reduce VAT by 2%, there is no concrete chapter and proposal on a billion and 50 million to be returned to the pensioners next year and there is no 7 billion kuna needed for the purchase of apartments. For this reason, Mr Sanader, I suggest to you personally that after all your ministers have been handing over to each of you in general, and there is time, you go before this Parliament with a programme complemented by a section that is not yet available, which is therefore the dynamics and strategy before the budget, so that the budget is easier to discuss and accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u316	I would like to thank Mr. Dragutin Lesar, the esteemed representative. And on behalf of the SDSS Club, the word has a distinguished representative, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u317	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen and Mrs. Ministers, Mr. Future Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I think we agree, and I think that between us as well as most of those who have gone out in the new elections and elected us as Parliament, regardless of party membership, we can share the following opinion and follow the expectations of the government that we should trust today. And that is to expect it to be determined and efficient, to be determined in everything that will be its programme, and to be determined in everything that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia expect and, of course, to be effective in removing all the difficulties, obstacles and all the problems that Croatia has been facing for years. This determination and this efficiency, it is absolutely certain, in no segment, and in any part should they be or should not be at harm, at the expense of democracy and, of course, at the expense of respecting the institutions of parliamentaryism, as has already been said here. And if, in the new government's term of office, there is a harmony between these two requirements, in my opinion, standing before Croatia and standing before us as representatives, this government may have a chance of realising its programme and, more importantly, it may have a chance of meeting expectations from most citizens, or from Croatia as a whole. Croatia also has no time to wait in Croatia because it has been too long for difficulties to accumulate in different spheres and different parts of this society's life to begin. And regardless of what is involved in the minority government, there is no doubt that it will have to find political wisdom that, on the one hand, by its commitment and on the other hand, obtaining consent to its commitment can, within as short a time period as possible, meet what the expectations of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are. As a representative of one of the minority communities in the Republic of Croatia, I think it is of particular importance that the Government, in its activities in the activities of its ministries and in the persons of its ministers, promotes as can be heard today in the opening speech of the prime minister of values that are the constitutional values of our country. The value of tolerance and the value of complete civil equality in the country. And in this sense it promotes and in this sense it does everything that those elements of intolerance that exist in society, those elements of speech and statements that still contain elements of intolerance, among citizens and ethnic groups have no place in serious Croatian political life. And especially in the performance of the jubilee and testimony of those who represent our government. I am deeply convinced on the basis of what we had as talks with the prime minister at different times of these talks that it will be so. Because it is not only party and mandated responsibility, it is in my opinion, the patriotic responsibility of this moment in Croatia. To dissipate Croatia with those elements of intolerance and those elements of inequality established by the inadequacy of people, by the inadequacy of individuals, but by the conflict of policies which at one point did not find measures between their ideology and what truly are democratic ei human values of expectations. It is absolutely certain that the statements themselves and the practice of being more tolerated than the Government itself will not be sufficient unless adequate legal and institutional mechanisms are created for this. So much is the issue of reforming the judiciary and judicial institutions as a whole and the rule of law in the country as a whole and in the spirit of the rule of law in the country, in fact, is a priority in achieving what we call the elements of tolerance and the elementary full civil values, civil equality in the state. As far as I am concerned, I suppose that the community on whose behalf I am performing and who I represent in this House as well as other minority communities in Croatia are ready to support the Government on this important and perhaps most important element of the reform of society or social institutions, state institutions such as judicial reform. The return of the evasive coordination of relations with regard to interest, expectations and rights between returnees and those who have been avoided and settled in the Republic of Croatia must be a special mandate and the interest of this Government and us as representatives of the Parliament. The conflict in areas of particular national interest which still exists, the unresolved issue of the use of Immigrants, unresolved property issues and piled up in terms of lagging or refurbishment requirements must be resolved in such a way that conflict ceases to exist. The communities concerned by both return and exile and settlers must live in a form of mutual communication and, if possible, cooperate with the Government and with local institutions in order to address these problems as soon as possible. Without them, the government will not be able to solve it, and of course if it is stimulated with them it will be able to do so sooner and more effectively than it has ever been. In this regard, we have proposed during the talks to the mandater to form a fund for areas of special state interest, as those areas and they are indeed in such a state of concern. Because from Senj in the west to Sinj in the south and to Croatia Kostanica in that triangle if looked at, just to take that area, not to talk about other areas that were affected by the war, there is a population devastion in that area, there is an economic devastion, in that area without a state presence but a state presence that will be designed with a programme and with the fund it will not be possible to ensure that those who are there remain there, let alone what must be a state interest, which is that people return and that new people who have interactions there have settled. In this regard, we are pleased that the mandater has accepted that the future budget provides an item for development programmes in this area, but we do not think that without the long-term design of a fund that would be for those areas of particular state interest, there will be no guarantee of what is necessary, which is that people can remain there to live on from their work. Not from the caritative and social benefits of pensions as most of these people live at the moment. As for the issues of minority policy and minority rights, the word today was spoken more times than in any speech, by any prime minister of the government in the earlier term. We minority representatives appreciate it very much. We appreciate this sensitivity, and what we think is necessary right now is that, as soon as possible, those issues that do not ask for big money or great engagement, or people or states, are being resolved so that we can have a solid application of the constitutional law on minorities. These are in line with the additional elections, for which the past government has decided to call the budget in February of next year. Both for local self-government units and for the councils of national minorities. Then it is the harmonisation of the statutes of municipalities, cities and counties with constitutional law and the provision of constitutional law. And of course finding ways to create assumptions for efficient work formed and one that will be formed by the council of national minorities. This would practically put Croatia in place within several months among those who achieve a significant part of the provisions of the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. Finally, allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to say a few words about and the sensitivity of our representatives and of the Serbian national community and other national minorities on the necessity and need that it is quite certain that it is possible to obtain not only in the spring of next year a certificate for its bid for membership in the European Union, but that as soon as possible, it is possible to cross that path to full membership. I would like to say that in all those elements where representatives of the Serbian national community and other national minorities in the Republic of Croatia can influence the reduction of that path, the acceleration of the dynamics of the crossing of that road and the settlement of good neighbourly relations that will do so. And in this sense, I would like to finally say that for all the good that the future government will do, it will have the support of the representatives of the Samostal Democratic Serb Party. For all that is not good in her work, we MPs, of course, will not be able to support it. I thank and wish for the success of both the prime minister and the new government.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u318	I would like to thank Mr. Pupovac, and I would like to announce that the time has expired at 12 hours and 28 minutes for the 10-minute hearing application. On behalf of the HSLS Club, the word of the D.C. has a respected representative, Mr. Ivan Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u319	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. Democracy rests on trust, not on trust as a psychological-recognizable category, but on trust as a specific civic category, a civic virtue, which means that those entrusted to put together, run certain political bodies have the right to trust and those others until the moment they realize a specific programme on which they gain that trust. That is why software documents should foster trust in all of us, and according to these programming documents, it is our job not only to hire us, but also to all other political factors and all citizens to monitor the achievement of this programme. Of course, in this confidence and monitoring how certain trust is realized, and whether we can continue to maintain that trust depends also on how many differences there are in society and how many groups in society can follow this trust and how much trust it actually measures. If we took this programming document, we would see that it actually corresponds to the level of trust that the Croatian Democratic Community has gained in these elections and that, like any programme document, it offers to see Croatia develop during this period of mandate, that is, in the years of this 4 years ahead of us. However, I think that today may be more than ever just a question of how the documents are written, whether we find in them more or less what we and all citizens expected, than above all whether the feasibility of a document of the programming document depends on the reality itself, or whether we can even expect the pro-grass documents to be feasible. Because life and reality tends to resist administrative documents, including programming documents. So I would say that this document is purely linguistic-segmantic, I would not speak to a political level, a document that is often epically ensnared and over-expanded and perhaps digressive. But it's also lyrical appeal, and it's often like a wake-up call. So that's why we can actually read mainly in the introduction sentences that I would say as if they were written by high school students when we write and we all wrote those homeworkes which is good. Because every program document - I repeat again - has to be appealing. He's always turning around, he's trying to boost trust. However, it seems to me that in some other pages of this text, more concrete work is missing, and these programming documents do not offer more details. But it is something that the government certainly has time in other documents and in the workings mainly through legal proposals to do. What certainly falls into the eyes is the fact that the progressive document is systematic, that it practically leaves nothing out of sight and that it tries to propose some measures concerning almost every social system, so from political, economic, school, health, etc. Which, of course, is similar to one of these documents. However, I can immediately note that it is visible that there are no liberals in this government and in this document, there is no HSLS and there is no liberal weakness that may have become numb, but because of all these circumstances that are happening to the liberal parties in Croatia. I don't mean some refined liberal feeling. But when the document begins with the sentence "Croatia is powerfully attractive" then it's to all of us liberals, of course, we're all asking ourselves what it meant. Of course, the noteworthy part of this, it might make it more powerful in a liberal sense, so that would mean that practically the state is leaving its place to civil society. But of course from these explanation lines it's still visible -- I'd just warn -- let's say the phrase "non-replaceable foundation" I mean, what is the base that is substitutable. If the foundation is substitutable then it's difficult. So, to maybe think a little bit about how much here it's possible to talk about the role of the state as I'm going to say already a little bit happens to dull this liberal tenacity, but yet I would ask you that if it is possible that there really is no sentence in the document "Citizens should be restored to spiritual peace". Ladies and gentlemen, if the state is going to restore spiritual peace to the citizens, then I'm afraid we're all on the wrong path. I appreciate the good intentions of the promoter. But the task of the state is not to restore spiritual peace. It is a category that depends on personal preferences, attitudes, emotional and cognitive development and the needs of each individual. Countries that restored spiritual peace to the citizens ended without exception all in totalitarianism. So I know it's a good intention. But I ask that such a sentence simply because two members of the Croatian Social Liberal Party sit here do not be in this document. After all, if we really want to raise the debate to a philosophical level, Hegel said that the spirit is indeed a spirit because it is restless. A spirit that's still isn't a ghost. Spiritual needs are always restless. The spirit is always leaven, the boiling that creates something new. And for this reason, citizens should be able to have as much time as possible for spiritual needs as possible in well - being and with as many material or material needs as possible. That's the job of the state. But surely it is not the task of the State to restore spiritual peace. So that's just a few sentences, I'd say purely in Semantic, so I repeat, I'm not bad, not at a political level that I think should be redecorated. And what again may be in line with my little suspicion that the excess here is paying attention to the state, although it's a government document, but we're relying too much on the state again. And I wouldn't want it to end up in ethical internationalism like it was, unfortunately, in the past government. I'd also say there's no special chapter on decentralisation. Ladies and gentlemen, Croatia is a state to say Russo was created to give civil society initiatives and initiatives and that practically only state bodies, political bodies direct, articulate and implement these interests. We are a state of both size and homogeneity culturally, and if you want some kind of environment countries that are truly created because we are continuously geostrategic, culturally in this area to pervade different initiatives, different initiatives, different cultural circles. We are indeed a state of diversity, we are a state as created to civil society, that civil society is what will be the leaven of creating new values in both economic, political and cultural terms, and therefore I think that as much time as possible, as much attention as possible, as much as possible to be given to decentralisation and the system of state in which local self-government, so starting from local self-government to above, just society would rise from below, I think that for all of us, for our citizens, for all of us sitting here would be of primary value and that it would be better than to think about the state being an absolute master again and to decide practically everything by our measures. So that's what I think might be even more possible if the term of office and if the representative club accepts to add, so decentralisation is a little bit more general, a little more detailed and we try at this... political level anyway consider leaving out some of the sentences that I was talking about from this document. The HSLS and DC club will give the government a chance to show if it can achieve and if it will achieve this programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u320	I would like to thank Mr. Czecho's esteemed representative. On behalf of the Club of National Minorities, the word has a esteemed representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u321	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues or respected colleagues as reportedly new. National Minority MPs will give different forms of support to the government under the chairmanship of Ivo Sanader, from internal support, meaning signing a mandate with three Bosniak and other minorities representing, the German and Austrian and other minorities and the Hungarian minorities to external support in the Czech, or Slovak minorities, the Italian minority, and finally as already said before the Serb minority. The two last minorities, so Serbian and Italian, gave their support to the government on the basis of signed agreements. I would like to say that it is important to acknowledge the prime minister that he had the wisdom, but also in some way also the courage to consult with representatives of the national minorities. To be honest, this is the first time in the history of the Croatian state that one prime minister is negotiating a government programme, including the government itself, in a way, with representatives of national minorities. The fact that the prime minister and future prime minister, i.e. the future government, belongs to the sphere of the right centre, shows only by my judgment and by our judgment, that at the beginning of the third millennium, the dictatorship of ideology should be left and defined for programmes in favour of the interests of those who make and in favour of the interests of all citizens of this country. In this case, minorities have made quite concrete agreements or quite concrete agreements, but these concrete agreements and agreements have not certainly been deprived and some valuable segments, valuable courts of deep symbolic significance. We are pleased to note in the government's programme that it is proud to point out that the government has concluded agreements and reached agreements with representatives of national minorities. We didn't have that until now, let's be aware, it's a new fact in Croatian politics, I'd say even, I'm saying who belongs to the sphere of the left or left center. I can even say that today for the first time maybe, and we'll see how it will develop in the future, but at this point we can say for the first time that minorities feel like for the first time as political entities and as policy entities better said. If we go to see what they've agreed, for example. The Bosniaks with the Prime Minister, we will see that these are requirements that are high value levels since the return of the name Bosniaks of course and Slovenians in the Croatian Constitution until the implementation of the name Bošnjak ku to all segments of the state administration and state in general and society until the correction of the solution by which the Bosniaks had to leave their homes during the province's rebellion, deprived Croatian documents. As far as the German, or Austrian national minorities are concerned, they can say that a single agreement has also been reached which, in my opinion, needs to be highly evaluated, and it is very much appreciated, and it is a deal that should symbolically and concretely correct one great injustice that occurred in the past when the Germans had a tragedy to be exiled and to be taken away from them all that they possessed. That should be highly appreciated. As far as my national minority in Italy is concerned, we have a complex programming agreement, and I will also for a short period of time and because I speak for all the national minorities here, I will sum up this agreement in just a few sentences. In 96, an agreement was signed, i.e. the contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Italian Republic on minority rights since then, that agreement has not been negotiated at all, and this contract is the most mentioned here, this contract in Article 3 says that the rights of Italian minorities must be extended from there, from where they were realised at the highest level and this is former zone B, in other places where the Italian minority lives. Of course, to expand writes gradually, not to photocopy as some newspapers have stated, and what some politicians have passed on, and even some politicians who, in my opinion, should think very much about that in some parts of the country some old ones have to change, but that doesn't mean photocopying, that doesn't mean a copy, it means expanding the rights of the Italian minority in the way that most corresponds to the order where these minorities live, that minority lives. That is why a Commission of Inter-resorship will be set up to implement the programme and will otherwise monitor the development of protection of the rights of the Italian national minority. Of course, here we had some concrete demands, for example. the requirement to better finance our publishing house because, as many people do not know, so I want to say here, our publishing house is the only one among all the publishing houses of national minorities that have daily newspapers, “La voce del hallo”, which, of course, as a daily newspaper cannot, cannot live without subsidies and without help, and since they barely bind the end with the end, then we put that mold. But, however, we have one whole series of the same rights, the rights concerning education and the lectures of Italian language in spirit, of course, the law on education and education in language and the letter of national minorities. So, in the second language of Croatian schools, where the national, Italian national minority of autochton is. And finally, I want to say that there are two articles of this agreement that we particularly hold to, and that is, they concern not so much the Italian minority itself but areas where the Italian national minority lives. Therefore, this agreement will ensure, ensure a concrete and more sensitivity of the state, i.e. government according to areas inhabited by the indigenous Italian national minority. So Istria and Rijeka. In order to recognise the specificities of these areas and to preserve and promote co-existence. And the second value, which we wanted and which I personally wanted to highlight, and I also came upon the prime minister of great understanding about it, is that this agreement allows the signatories to agree that the preservation and promotion of anti-fascist values is based on a new Europe. As far as the Italian minority is concerned. The natural thing to ask now is how and in which those who are, who provide external support will support this government. Of course, it will support it in its formation, in the very act of forming it now, it will support it, and we have signed it, and other national minorities I am sure share such thinking, protection, so it will support the protection and promotion of human rights and the rights of national minorities. It will support the Euro-Atlantic integration processes of the Republic of Croatia, support proposals on judicial reform, especially those aimed at efficiency and full independence of the judicial authority, which is also one important thing that we want to highlight. Development between states and other relations with neighbouring countries regarding our minority, especially Italy and Slovenia. Co-operation with the International Court in The Hague and economic programmes aimed at developing Croatia and increasing the standard of living of its inhabitants. So, as you can see, it's a very specific matter, and I have to say that when we've been discussing it, since we've discussed it, we've found a degree of tolerance that I think if it's going to continue, it's going to certainly lead to good concreteization and implementation of what's agreed on, but we'll see that. We'll see about that. I'm an optimist. If I wasn't optimistic, I wouldn't have signed this agreement, and I know I'm thus interpreting the opinion of other representatives of the national minorities. I want to say two more things in the end. One is that we heard a few days ago that they were national, from high places, that they were national minorities, that national minorities were the easiest to cheat. True, we have such history, we have history to be deceived. It's in the definition of the national minorities themselves, that's what I'm saying. However, I have, deeply, deeply believe that on the basis of such agreements and on the basis of such thinking and on the basis of what is signed, one big step forward in the realisation of the rights of national minorities will be very much possible. I want to believe it, I say here very openly, I want to believe it, the future will show. But I think you insist on making national minorities the easiest to cheat, I think it's a bit tasteless. I want to say in the end, and at the very end, that about the remarks made today and from this pay phone, that the national minorities have signed this agreement despite the fact that they have not been recognised twice, there is no double right to vote, I would like to say the following. Not only those eight years when the HDZ ruled, but all four years when the SDP-led coalition ruled, I was in the first person and all the representatives of the national minorities fought to get a double vote. We didn't get it, I can claim here with mathematical security from this pay phone that for that and the coalition of the left center that didn't give it, that it didn't give a double first vote, lost the election. And then there's no mandater, I can't have him right center. We have chosen the next formula from the Italian minority, so to speak. Signed to reflect the Italian national minority's position on the need to respect the principle of positive discrimination in the vote, i.e. the need to introduce a special vote of members of national minorities with general voting rights. And we said that the representative of the Italian minority in the Croatian Parliament would oppose any legal proposals that would not guarantee this right. I recommend to those who criticise what we have signed that they also oppose all legal proposals that will not ensure this right because we have not done so so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u322	I thank the esteemed representative Fury Radin. Dear Representative Željko Pavlic. It's for an individual ten-minute debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u323	Dear ladies and gentlemen, here I have come forward for one main reason, to warn the fact that from now on, by presenting the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme from 2003 to 2007, no mention of the local administration, self-government, therefore, and decentralisation. Some MPs have already warned about this, but this in LIBRI causes a really big surprise because we think, therefore, that the decentralisation process that started three years ago must continue and that I do not repeat the thesis from before. My view, therefore, is that the question of the level of decentralisation has a significant impact on the quality of life of every Croatian citizen. Unlike this programme, the programme that the former government adopted 3 years ago has in its contents, therefore, an item that is dedicated to just decentralisation. Let me read just one sentence, so: “It foresees a wide decentralisation process, and strengthening local and regional self - government. In the surrounding self-government units, especially larger cities, it will enable them to carry out a significantly wider circle of jobs, and they will be given a higher degree of independence than the central government and administration.” So far, the government has gone into the decentralisation process and has lowered certain funds towards lower levels as far as possible in the current macroeconomic conditions. So the fact that there is not a single word of local, regional self-government or decentralisation in this government material is actually one of the main reasons why I, and we heard and Club Libre will not give support to this government. Our concern is that the more the team happened yesterday when the Government Act was passed and the following laws. Just to remind you, in 1999, there was a law that provided for the State Directorate for State Administration and Local Self-Government. In 2000, the coalition government formed the Ministry of Justice, Administration and Local Self-Government. The laws, the laws that were adopted yesterday, left the Ministry of Justice, and the Central State Administration Office was formed. Therefore, no name also mentions local self-government, and one of the functions held by the State Directorate for State Administration and Local Self-Government, the Ministry of Justice and Local Administration was also the supervision of the work of representatives and executive bodies of local self-government. We think, therefore, that in this large system, surveillance is needed, and we fear what will happen if it does not happen. Small environments with special attention therefore listen and observe exactly what will happen with decentralisation. My Međimurje County has three years of good experience with this decentralisation process, so only the first steps have been withdrawn. It didn't go on. So the question is what's actually going to be still. So we were satisfied that the situation turned to 2000 investments in our Međimurje County was measured, measured with several million kunas, up to 10 million kuna, perhaps from the government, from the entire budget for Međimurska. In order to reverse this, investment, for example, has been measured in hundreds of millions of kunas over the past year. I think it takes different programs to continue. There has also been a redistribution of tax, this, the sources of funding so that we also have an increase in aid from the state level. For example, for the County of Međimurje, the budget had 83 million kuna in 2003. Before 2000. The county budget was somewhere around 30 million kuna. So almost twice there's been an increase. From this, 42 million kuna is being paid out of the State budget. So double the basic budget, and it's the funds of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of crafts, small and medium enterprises, from education, from social care and also from the Ministry of Health. So that's what we didn't have a case before. Also, through various competitions, various programmes supported programmes, concrete programmes by municipalities, cities and counties, so the municipalities, cities and counties across Croatia came with a lot of funding, and I would like to stress in particular the programme of the Ministry of crafts that started the formation of 188 small economy zones in Croatia. This will also affect Croatia's accelerated economic development. I hope, therefore, that these programmes will be continued, but unfortunately we have no information now what will happen to these programmes, which will happen in the future with the decentralisation process. Libra tried to get answers to this question yesterday when we reached the conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is in debt to propose, within 6 months, a full proposal for a decentralisation strategy of the Republic of Croatia with a specific focus on fiscal issues. Unfortunately, this conclusion was not accepted. There were suggestions that he would be accepted without a deadline but in this way he would lose his post. So in front of our municipalities, cities, counties is a great unknown as well as others. Finally, once again, to express my dissatisfaction with such a relationship with local self-government units, according to the overall process of decentralisation. Here we read the stop of this process and possible, possible turn of process in another direction, direction of etatization and centralization, and here again opens up questions of individual programs in what way will they be valorized? Will it be valorized the way it was, like it was now? This is so far, these concrete programmes followed by their necessary documentation, or perhaps some other criteria that were in force before 2000 will primarily be considered political criteria, to be a priority. So I hope it doesn't happen, but until we get a clear answer we'll be skeptical and so we won't give it, I won't support this government programme either, and neither will the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u324	I thank Mr. Representative Pavlic. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u325	I would join those clubs and individuals who welcome a new cabinet with good intentions and wishes. I'd use the beginning for a constructive proposal. So the HSP Club decided to be a constructive opposition. I therefore propose that among the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia listed 9, 9 is an unfortunate number. I suggest adding the 10th priority mentioned on page 21 as a priority of the Ministry of Justice, which would be defined as follows: the fight against conflicts of interest, influence, corruption and capture of the state. It is the very essence of the public action and the parliamentary action of the HSP in the last few years and I hope and I am convinced that it can be accepted. The other would be one appeal. Yesterday, since I was in the Parliament for the first time, I came home and I looked at “Meridian 16” and there I saw the announcement “Meridian 16”, Ivica Giusel, who comes from an oral culture, said: “And we will see who has taken all the entry chairs.” And in that sense, I appeal to a prime minister who is not here to repeat yesterday's session that the parliamentary procedure begins primarily by violating the Rules of Procedure. It's the first appeal. And the second to begin with some kind of convert of the Parliament into a legislative McDonald's. So in one day we get on benches 3 legal proposals. I think the Parliament should also do something in this regard and make one of the thematic sessions of the next sessions dedicated to what I was talking about yesterday, and that is the problem of the assembly or parliamentarian or MPs or parliamentary responsibilities. The other thing about the very spirit of discriminatory, he talked about it a little while before the Czech Republic, I was convinced that it was good to have these sessions before the holidays. Today I am not quite sure because Ivo Sanader could come forward in two ways: like Winston Churchill and promise us, to dramatically warn everyone about the situation in the economy, in society, in the state of the nation and to promise people just not blood thank God, but sweat, tears work and denial for the benefit of the common good. And after he eventually performed as Santa Claus, he chose only this other solution that would be a great burden on him, because in all that paper, unfortunately, a lot of promises are made in a short time, and I hope that he will succeed. On that skepticism warns me... who leave the Cabinette, except for a few who have lived from a state position in private companies, are all somehow relaxed and happy including the prime minister. [[speaks off, can't be heard]] With regard to HDZ itself, the first decade of government has never been a problem with parliamentary opposition, as it has managed to pasatise parliamentary opposition through its involvement and success. I hope that you will find a way to an extraparliamentary opposition to the opinion of the designer and this concession and agreement with minorities and me happy in this sense that you will encounter a lot of friendly mood among Croatian public opinion makers, because if you open the newspaper today you will still find more texts of interviews of people who have ruled for so many years and who have had a very benign public attitude. Finally, as far as the cabinet itself is concerned, I think it's an interesting cabinet. However, we should bear in mind that we have 4, 5 ministers or a beginner or a trainee minister or whatever it is called, it is certainly a great burden. My experience that I should, I've worked a lot for the United Nations, was not a shame to pass different traineeship courses. From how you fly, how you manage, how you run the ministry. I'd like those people to understand that they need to learn that. and finally last thing, I did an ad hoc analysis of the hobby of ministers who is very instructive and she speaks perhaps more than just the résumés, one of the résumés is just titled out of Croatian literary language as Curiculum vitae by colleagues Žužula, it should be corrected in the future. Pero Kovacevic drew my attention that he mentioned that the author of the "War and Peace" part was probably some minor still debate,...a great work. So, as far as hobby is concerned, the following hobbies are among the most athletes of the 12 of 14 ministers who chose sports as hobbies, three golfers are other football players, handball players, and certainly the most interesting Calmeta that practically deals with all the slows, except for ultimate football paratroopers and surfing. In the second place which is very interesting is music 8 out of 14 deals with music, probably passively, reading third place with 7, no one chose writing as a hobby, one minister chose dancing, two chose Holticulture and Winemaking and one raising children. What worries me is that there are no hobbies involved in social and humanitarian work. And I would finally like to take this opportunity to make it clear to Vladimir Seks, yesterday he announced to me the withdrawal of the suit for insulting the honor that dates back to what year 1992, I'm doing it from the deepest beliefs. In fact, the moment the Bosniaks and Slovenians were kicked out of the Croatian Constitution, I was angry, and for Slovenian television and youth, I made a statement that Vladimir Seks, when he was drunk, did not know where Slovenia is, where Macedonia is. I publicly apologize to Vladimir Shakespeare here, it was in anger and I hope it's some sort of tolerance this is before the holiday mood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u326	Thank you very much. I accept this apology. Dear Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u327	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. As the HSP president said at the beginning of this debate, the HSP will not support this government, but we will point to some of the shortcomings of this government's programme in our statements. In the first row, I would refer to privatisation in the way it's shown here, quite a bit of smut, although it is a very delicate process. During the election campaign and the entire last term, we insisted that the privatisation in the future be carried out only on the Leasing, i.e. that every privatisation contract has an obligation to invest in the company, not just the purchase of the company without further commitments. So we don't agree that the new owner becomes the real owner of the company, just by buying shares, but by becoming the real owner of the company then and only if he actually makes all the investments he promised. Tourism is also mentioned here more at the same time. And I would like to point out that for tourism, vital general security. However, ladies and gentlemen, this is not achieved by joining NATO as the future foreign minister notes here in the Evening List today, that NATO's entry will contribute to the growth of tourism. I don't know which one of you, tourism he meant. My decency tells me not to mention some of the types of tourism that are spreading to military bases here. But in any case, I have to say that tourism is an increased hotel, tourism yachts, cultural offer incompatible with aircraft carriers, with the stock of nuclear submarines in the Greek port in the middle of the season, that is, with all the military exercises in the season or pre-season. Therefore, this should be taken into account, and we are equally unacceptable to any form of sygonisation or philipinisation of Croatian tourism in order to possibly get from these several wives of American soldiers who will visit their husbands at military bases which this government may offer to the Americans or in general to NATO. There is no word here that tourism should be given a 10% VAT rate, as all our competition in the Mediterranean has. If you are already going to experiment with VAT, then it is primarily necessary to go to the inter-stage VAT on tourism. Part of the energy on page 11 also speaks in principle about this, but we are interested in concrete answers, we are interested in the government's position on the Adria project, to make it easier for you in the procedure is HSP's proposal for Croatia to step out of the project, and we were also supported by the Bishop's Conference. But there is also no letter here of what we will continue with the nuke Krško, and it is well known, Mr. Prime Minister, that in this year Croatia and Slovenia must finally reach an agreement on during the decommissioning, so who is paying and who is taking over from radioactive waste? As for traffic and ports. We believe that it would be of paramount importance to apply the Greek co-ownership model in the Croatian ports in the future. ensure that HZ gets 25% co-ownership in all Croatian ports, and that is simply because it is of national interest for Croatian railways to become an operator on all transport corridors throughout the Republic of Croatia after 2006 when competitions are started in all European countries for railway operators. The ecological fishing zone deserves a special debate. It is known that we have advocated the economic belt and we believe that the ecological and fishing zone should soon grow into a full economic belt. What's equally worrying is that in this model, the Government of Marine Fisheries is not under this famous Ministry of the Sea, the transport of tourism development, etc., but is still left under the Ministry of Agriculture. So it's really unclear how a whole series of jobs that are vital for fishing will be coordinated. First of all, the budgetary division, secondly the functioning and purpose of setting up a coast guard, so its role on the Adriatic. And in the third row, the existence of a fisheries administration. I'd say only two examples of where coordination is necessary. This is, for example, the existence of a freezer for the reception of fish or the existence of operational and fishing shores. I have participated in two discussions in the Chamber of Commerce on the problem of fishing, and there is indeed a need to establish better coordination of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs with the Ministry of Fisheries. We expected that this coordination would be established through the Ministry of the Sea, but if fishing remains out of it in a special ministry, it will obviously not be possible. On page 22, the code of conduct of officials is mentioned. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the HDZ, I think it's even more important to do than make it a function of the Law of Conflict of Interest. We expected that at this first session he would be operationalized by the establishment of the Committee on Conflict of Interest, it is our legal obligation that we made in the last term. We expected that HDZ would offer an amendment to that famous article that forgives conflicts of interest to those who are co-owners of up to 25% of the company but we didn't see it here, and all of this together compensated with some code of conduct of officials, you'll forgive it really poorly. As far as the E Croatia or I project is concerned, everything is in vain, ladies and gentlemen, while the personal computer is a luxury and a status symbol for most Croatian families. There is also a reference to the I Governorship, so informing citizens' relations with the government. It should also be mentioned that the helth, therefore distance healthcare with the help of the Internet and education, therefore the internetization of schools but all this as expensive as the whole of this project is pointless if, I repeat, the personal computer of luxury for most Croatian families and therefore it is necessary to go to the subsidized information of Croatian families. The information of Croatia takes place twice as quickly as in other candidate countries for the European Union but remains mainly through the modest budgets of Croatian families. I believe there must have been a hearing in this government program. If nothing, the HSP will go with its project where we will make it more clear. And the vote, as the Korean Minister of Telecommunications and Information said to me last year, is completely pointless if it comes down to informing the government itself. So the government's information only makes sense if it allows quick and easy access to all interested people, so all of our citizens to the documents they need. That's supposed to be a day's emphasis. Also, I'd like to devote a little bit to international relations here. It mentions NATO entry as one of the strategic goals that one broad discussion should be carried out and especially from the aspect of possible giving to foreign military bases but we are even more interested in this kind of oath in the anti-terrorist coalition in HSP. I'd like to ask everyone here a very clear question. What is an anti-terrorist coalition? When's the closing? What's her charter? What are Croatia's obligations in it? Is the obligation of Croatia in that so-called Anti-terrorist coalition protecting the security of order and peace within Croatia, or sending troops anywhere in the world? There is no word about it here in this program, ladies and gentlemen, and you know very well what I mean. I mean sending the Croatian Army to Iraq. There are no dedicated and clear views in this government programme. Likewise, as far as relations with neighbors are concerned, of course we are for good relations but only in accordance with international law. No discounts and no compromises that go into the waters of international politics because once we get away from international havens, when we move away from international rights, we come to a slippery policy field where compromises are possible. In any case, good relations yes, but not in the package, but let's try to agree on all the issues and if we don't go, we stick to international law, we go to arbitration. So I believe that the government will stick to these principles and that this programme will do well. However, HSP will not support this Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u328	Thank you very much, dear colleague Tadic. Correction of the inaccuracy of my colleague Zuzul. Here you go, Comrade Zuzul!
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u329	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! I'm a little sorry that here's my first appearance in this honorary home I have to start by correcting the incorrect quote, in fact you might even have two incorrect allegations from the speech of a distinguished colleague, Tadic. The first refers to the interpretation of my interview in which it could be concluded that I'm talking about some kind of ships, some kind of bases or something and it's just not true. What I have really said and what can be checked and my esteemed colleague Tadic trusts in numbers, he can check the number of tourists in the countries that entered NATO before and after entering, which, for example, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic or Latvia, is known. Another incorrect allegation is from our programme, where you explicate and say that relations with neighbouring countries will be based precisely on the principles of international law or with international legal assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u330	Thank you very much, dear colleague Zuzul. We're continuing the debate. It's time for the esteemed colleague Kovacevic. Here you go, Comrade Kovacevic!
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u331	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! The first thing I have to say is that I expected this government programme to be in the fullest sense concrete and I can say for him that it is really the same in the fullest sense of that word. I will continue to refer to the presentation of the party's representative Ante Djapic in several areas of very important importance and first this is the area of defence. Namely, it's on page 5. The government will continue to reform, including the military. The first thing that needs to be said is that what the current government has implemented in the area of defence cannot be called reform, nor can it be called a reconstruction because of the clear fact that it would work in the armed forces and the defence system of reforms or the reconstruction of states must have a defence plan and must have a plan to use the armed forces. That's what Croatia doesn't have at the moment. We had him in 1991 when he was Defence Minister Luka Bebic, I was the head of the task force that developed that defence plan and unfortunately we don't have it today. So what's being implemented in the armed forces right now is a clean cut. There is no talk of reform and it is important to further say that we are slowly left without two important branches of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. It's the Air Force and the Navy. Therefore, I expect that the government will really move towards reforming the future armed forces. As part of this reform, I draw attention to the Law on Defence and the Law on Service in Armed Forces. According to the Defence Act, in the event of a surprise attack on Croatia, the procedure for issuing orders for the use of the armed forces is such that it can last for a month and the defence system of each country must be such that it must respond to every threat. So there can't be any situation for the defence system of any state that he can't react immediately. According to our current definition of the Defence Act, the use of the armed forces can be ordered but only in the event of the declaration of direct threat to the independence and unity of the state and the state of war and, in order to do so, the Croatian Parliament must establish that there is such a situation, only afterwards can the President of the State, but still, with the co-signation of the Prime Minister, order the use of the armed forces. Therefore, these are catastrophic things that threaten the defence security of the state. Furthermore, what I would like to look forward to is that there is also a need in the Government's programme to amend and supplement the Law on Armed Forces Service because members of the Armed Forces are deprived of constitutional law, so that is the variant that now members of the Armed Forces are deprived of constitutional law. So that's the variant that now the Armed Forces can't come to political gatherings or civilians. And we know that... A strict procedure was initiated, that he had acted beyond the Law of Service in the Armed Forces. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we have another situation where, in the United States, pre-election meetings can be held even in the military. We've had a situation before that it's forbidden to come in uniforms but how can people be banned from civil rights that they can even come to a civilian meeting of some political party. Furthermore, I would like to point out that is the issue of Croatian defenders. First of all, I remind you of the fact that the Croatian party of rights has drawn up its draft law. The law passed in the first reading and we agree in this part with the Croatian Democratic Community that it is important to do first, which, to restore dignity to Croatian defenders and members of their families. But yesterday something happened that we warned about. Namely, the ministry in which Croatian defenders do not have the name of the ministry, should be called the Croatian Defence and Generations Family Ministry. He's only writing a lawyer. I too was called and protested by a huge number of defenders. Because they tell me the following variant: if we're going to go all the way under the term in Croatian translation, the defender is both a defender and a member of a militia unit. And I don't think she should have done that if she was going to return her dignity, which is why she's not in the name of the ministry and that part of the Croatian defender. Because that's the definition that always said what the Homeland War is and who the Croatian defender is. I still have to look back at the same important area and there's nothing in it said, it's the area of agriculture. In fact, you all know well that Croatia has imported over a billion and 200 million dollars a year, meaning the value of agricultural products. Croatia imported from the Netherlands beetle, one bumblebee paid 13.5 kuna. Imported hay, kg of hay paid 15.5 kuna, imported bones, imported flowers, annual import of flowers is over 50 million euros. And in this part of the programme, I expect that the Croatian Democratic Community, nothing is said in the programme of reducing imports of agricultural products, and we know that the Croatian peasant has been brought on a beggar stick for so many imports, so I knew how to say this government, so this formerly cares so much about the Croatian peasant that he doesn't have to have any shadow, no straw or nothing but have to buy all that money. I think it's an important thing for Croatian agriculture and a Croatian peasant to be raised to his feet to prevent this import. We have a situation that only for this tourist season, as Mr. Tomcic said for the purposes of tourism, more than 70% can therefore not tell us how much we gain from tourism. It's still an important thing... The speaker went off and turned it back on. But what happened next? In the amendments, one thing happened was that the Croatian Peasant Party proposed that we say, and it was adopted that the inspections that were part of the State Inspectorate,... and this other part go to the Ministry of Agriculture. I keep telling you what our version of the law was. We, if we want to create a legal state in the fullest sense of that word, must separate the inspections from the resolution ministries. Because the minister can't say that in a particular area of inspection he's told that a particular ministry, a particular area, is wrong when it's normal for a minister to submit a report to the government. Let's finally separate this once in the creation of the rule of law because we're not going to get to the public's assessment and control that the rule of law works in the fullest sense of that word because let's not keep going on that cadiya and suing you, cadiya judges you. We must finally remove these things. Therefore, with the best wishes of this government, I say the Croatian Party of Rights has concrete programmes for these areas, we are at our disposal to help if in the first 60 days it does not move with it or 100 days we will come out with concrete proposals of law from all these areas.../ The speaker doesn't understand...
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u332	Thank you, dear colleague Kovacevic. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague, Tomcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u333	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, namely, this may not only be a correction to the allegations but also an explanation of what the HSS gave yesterday through the amendments and what the proposaler's representative adopted. The amendment to Article 22 is true that part of the inspection work passes from the State Inspectorate to the Ministry of Agriculture, but it must be distinguished that one production and quality control of the product is the other trade and products in trade. Therefore, products in trade, whether agricultural or other, remain in the State Inspectorate on this proposal. And this is quality control, agricultural production.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u334	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. There's a respected colleague, Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u335	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I'll just look back on your program, the government development program of the island, or since you know I'm from the island, and that's all of our island's painful points. Unfortunately, all governments so far have promised the islands of the hills and the valleys will change this, what, but it was an empty election promise. I hope that this will be one government that will fulfill all its promises. But I didn't see anything in the government program, or mention anything about the problem of health care on the islands. And we know that the islands can't have the same criteria. First of all, I heard that you're going to inherit some programs from the former government, so I hope that one of these programs won't be the ambulance ships on the islands because we don't want it, we want well-equipped infirmarys with a network of travel specialists. And on the Adriatic, especially in the islands of summer, the population grows 3 to 4 times, and that population needs the same quality health care so that they can't be the same criteria for islands as on land. And as for transportation on the islands, we know what a desperate connection it is. We know something improves in the season, but after the season, that same relationship is desperate. Plus, I find it hard to believe that air and water traffic cannot be coordinated. So when the plane arrives in Split in the morning, you have a transport to the islands only sometime this afternoon or if you arrive this afternoon you have to spend the night in Split. It's hard for me to believe that I hope this connection can somehow be coordinated. As far as the police are concerned, as well as in island health, they cannot be the same criteria and can't be in service when it's not season and when the population grows 3 to 4 times. Because that same population also deserves safety and quality protection. When you write the criteria for the police on the island I think and suggest that the island's police officers should be in those groups when it comes to, when you do some criteria or some law on the island police because the island's mentality is quite different. As for schooling, schooling is here, schooling on islands is completely forgotten and the quality of schooling on islands must not depend on where the child was born and where he lives or how many children are in each school. And imagine how hard it is to organize when children go to a national or state competition when they go off the island that they find it hard to organize accommodations and driving, so most of these kids who are very good students don't go to these competitions at all. And lastly, as far as the government's programme is concerned, I quote: "The government plans to ensure and in practice introduce a system of effective satellite preventive protection against fires on permanent island and coastal surveillance." Ha, I think that surveillance, we witnessed several very large fires on the island of Korčula, especially in HSP we suggest that 30% of the residence fees be allocated for fire protection. Second, and we suggest that we acquire a fleet of airtractors or agricultural aircraft. And each of them costs less than 10 million kuna, that's 12 times less than a canadian. And he wears water like half a canadre. Spain's airport network and fleet airtractors have solved the problem of rapid intervention in the firefields. In Croatia, these bases could be in Zemunik, Divulja, Hvar and Plots. Also in Dubrovnik. And the current fleet of four canadians needs to be increased to six with six airtractors. Keeping in mind that the philosophy of application should be different than it is now. The emphasis is on rapid intervention and good equipment. And thirdly, we propose the establishment of an Earth fire squad. It's more worth a permanent island space fire unit of 30 to 50 people for each island than hundreds of firefighters sent out when the fire gets out of control. And every island along the island of the fire department must have a minimum of 3rd to 4 field fire trucks in Unimag. The equipment of Earth's fire departments is negligible at the price of an escapade. So all of this above defines together life and staying on islands and not just income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u336	Hawla to you esteemed colleagues. It is next, dear colleague Vlado Jukic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u337	Honored Mr. Vice President, colleagues and coelge regardless of their pre-Glory mood, and I came forward because I have several principled remarks. In fact, I have one principled proposal for this whole program. First I join everyone... Interrupt on the tape/... the way in which smmko gets this material very serious material is called the government program and I hold that it is incorrect to put it on the bench and immediately say open the debate. Because it simply wasn't possible to read it or read it, let alone make a more serious analysis. This is not correct because the government programme is the foundation and document by which we should assess the support or not the government that offers it. My principle comment is whether we will have in the Croatian state after each election in the formation of the new eGovernment, as is now the case for the announcement of a change of almost all Croatian legislation. If we look at the government's programme a little bit summerly, then we can read from it how almost all the laws in force in the Republic of Croatia will need to be changed for its implementation. The Constitution itself still lacks the app to make this change complete. I believe it is not good for any country or for the Croatian state. Because the state of democracy in Croatia is not such that every government needs to change almost all the laws of key laws in the Croatian state. Because it certainly is not a way in which some things can change and fix for the benefit of the citizens. It is primarily the purpose of us as politicians and the law. I wonder how long it will be to bring all the laws that are provided for in this program. Based on experience in the Croatian Parliament, it will take more than a year, perhaps even two years to pass all of these laws discussed by this programme. In the meantime, the Croatian state should function and I ask how it will be possible if everything is under question. From state administration to MUPA, defenses and all other important segments of Croatian society. I'm not happy with the fact that most of the time I've been able to read it can be seen in the program, that it's predicting a new law. There is a formula for amending and supplementing laws which is a milder form and which shows and should show the intention of the new government to amend and supplement certain regulations. But I haven't met that formulation in the program. It's mostly about new laws. Like what? in the case of defence of national security only in one segment, one sentence speaks of an overall modern new military strategy. About the new national security strategy, about the new law on the MUP, on the new structure of the MUPA, then on the new law on security services, on the new organisation of security services, on the new drug abuse strategy, it's only in one part of the small part of the programme half-page. Is it possible to do all of this in a very short time, which will also enable the real application of these new regulations, and the benefit of citizens from their application. I believe it is not and it is my fundamental observation of the government's programme that it is optimistic in a political sense, but it is unrealistic in terms of the borderline almost entirely of Croatian legislation, because I believe that the time has come and yet it is also saying the wording of the political messages of the predecessors of the government and the political message of the prime minister. The talks of continuity we had today and thanks to the previous government. But in the program, it seems like nothing's ever done before. And that everything from the foundation should be changed, and we can only assume how long it will take, and of course how much it will cost the Croatian state. Because any amendments to the law, any changes to the procedure and time for application, and certain costs. What I am pleased with is a sentence from the programme that says that the overall political and social relationship towards the Homeland War should become a central component of national security. I am pleased with that sentence, and that is what I as a Croatian defender, I welcome and hold that all Croatian defenders will welcome. Because that sentence returns the dignity of the Homeland War to Croatian politics. I believe that the work of this sentence, the messages from the programme and how it will be under great attention to the Croatian public. And in the end, I have one specific question, concerning both defence and national security. It refers to the government's position in the programme, which says it will, with full responsibility, be ready to take on the commitments arising from support and membership in the integration of the European Union and NATO. But what I'm particularly interested in is the willingness to make commitments out of support. Of course, commitments arising from the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations, and in the future in NATO, in any case, are not controversial and that they are understood. What is an open political issue is what these are and what obligations stemming from support. We had an example in the past term of the government, when the commitment that came out of support caused a huge storm on the Croatian political scene and big doubts and it was about sending the Croatian army to Afghanistan. Based on the support of the so-called An anti-terrorist coalition. If we are reading this view of the Government in the programme, we can assume that, according to this formulation, it is possible to base myself on, for example, support. US action in Iraq is directed by the Croatian Army to Iraq as part of the occupation forces. So I am interested and I would like a concrete response from the prime minister as to the position of the Government of the Republic of Iraq and whether, in this term, the Government will, if circumstances so require, send the Croatian army to Iraq. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u338	I thank the esteemed Mr. Vlad Yukic. Now we have a five-minute debate on behalf of the clubs, the esteemed representative William Herman on behalf of the club LIBRE. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u339	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's let the prime minister in the hope, the prime minister is proposing here as one of the priorities, and here is the 9 priorities, the 10th is the assessment of the club LIBRE we think that this 10th priority or by order of importance may not be the 10th simply to be placed in this order of priorities. When I say that, I mean the priority of regional development and decentralisation. I don't think that any of those who want to look with understanding at the development of Croatia, who wants to look with optimism at Croatia's involvement in the European Union, should be convinced that the issue of regionalism and centralisation can therefore be considered a priority for the new Croatian government. So much is the proposal for this conclusion with great hope that it will be accepted because ultimately it will benefit Croatia's development. And let me remind you that it is generally considered to be a regional problem just when a region deviates from the national average in some important issues, as I will point out. For example. High and sustained unemployment, low levels and slow GDP growth, high levels of dependence on a narrow industrial base, a rapid decline in production and also inadequate infrastructure equipment, i.e. large migration outside the region. Any of our regions of natural and historical have something of what I was talking about. The Slavonia in particular. I would remind you that for our occasions, particularly interesting experience has been tested in the UK. It is equally verified in the European Union and are formed there as major economically planned regions. Economic and administrative criteria have also been applied simultaneously. Government offices were founded. That's what we talked about yesterday, and here's a chance for some of it to be realized. But the government's offices are for the regions. The offices show that the regionalisation of the state was not itself a purpose, but a clear goal was set, a clear task. Government offices operate at regional level as an extended arm of several ministries. So those who can directly enable exactly what I'm talking about. One more thing as a warning. In Croatia, around 14% of fiscal expenditure is at local level. Comparative examples speak quite dramatically of something else. Therefore, it is 19 and more percentages of these revenues, fiscal revenues at the local level of Austria or German. We have other examples. And all in all, it's a matter of fiscal decentralisation not just a matter of economic nature. Here, that's why we wanted to point out the need for a fine apriority to be found and the question of decentralisation and regional development. We welcome, I am particularly interested in this because I come from Slavonia, from Osijek, that the government's programme provides for a draft of the Adro Bank of a significant project. But it would be good for the mandate to be seen as to what it actually means, and also as regards deadlines. But there is nothing else that should be stated, especially in relation to decentralisation of regional reasons. The programme said in one general way that the development of the highway road network will continue and that is good. I guess that means there's actually going to be a sequel to what we already have. However, it is not quite clear what is happening to the 5C corridor of an important project, a European direction without which it is difficult to imagine not only the development of Slavonia and Baranja, but also the development of Croatia as a whole. I would also like to ask that a direct unambiguous statement of mandate take place. Of course, there are always good intentions and of course there is a certain difference between these intentions and plans and what is the achievement of intentions and plans. We will support both the intentions and the plans in order to reduce that difference between what he really says. So, in this desire, we want the Croatian government, and secondly, from the heart of success and a lot of good results and, of course, honesty. Here's a chance for this honesty to happen now that I've asked these very clear questions and when I pray very, very clear answers. Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u340	I would like to thank the honourable representative William Herman and the respected representative of Drago Pukles on behalf of the Croatian Party of Retirement Club. Here you go, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u341	The esteemed President, the esteemed ladies and gentlemen. Allow me with a few words to address this honorable meeting in front of the Croatian party of pensioners, which has been in this House for the first time since the creation of the Croatian state. But let me say something else, that in this House is not only a Croatian party of pensioners, but a Croatian party of pensioners is present and the entire retirement population that is involved through our party in this whole process that we started. Let me say something about the characteristics of that population. You see, it's one big group of good, patient and reasonable people. And no one should be afraid, no one should be afraid that these people will do any harm to the Croatian state. Furthermore, in the creation of the Croatian state, the greatest burden of war was borne by the defenders of the pensioners. So if at some point it was necessary to take something away from that group, then it's reasonable at some other time for her to do something to compensate and to do. The messages we sent about the position of our people who are really unsustainable were a little bit understood and taken a little seriously. That's why we came here to Parliament. We've got our identity, and we're hoping to do what we can with you. We are pleased that Mr. Prime Minister has understood our messages and accepted them and therefore we have given our support to the entire programme that is under discussion today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u342	Thank you, dear Puckles. The list of MPs has been exhausted. I'd like to speak to Dr. Ivo Sanader, Prime Minister to take the final word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u343	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, first of all, I would like to thank all the representatives who spoke on behalf of both the club and the individual debate on what we have proposed on behalf of the future government and allow a few comments and consideration of proposals, objections and possible remarks. On behalf of the IDS club, Mr Cain wished as much of the other good start and fruitful work of this government, and I would like to thank you for that, and I would like to say that the future Croatian government, which I hope you will give us today, has, as a matter of principle, expressed its position and will represent the development of all Croatian parts. I don't see and we haven't seen the need to particularly point out, but I'll say as a Dalmatian that I have a special sensitivity for Istria. That Istria is our pride like other Croatian regions. And for others, so are you, I'll get back to you, and I'll come to your presentation, colleague. That the 1943 anti-fascist Istra decision on the accession of Istria and the island to the mother country is a historic decision to which we are all proud. We will consider everything, and your Mr. Cain and everyone else. I've heard a lot of clubs say, a lot of each other's exposure, but we'll take phonograms and study them consciously and see what we can adopt in our program. I agree with the president of HSS Mr. Tomcic when he said that economic policy is at the heart of your party as well as the general public and our government. I agree with such an assessment, and I support it as I accept that all representatives and the Croatian public are assessing us towards strengthening the economy, and as part of this, what you have highlighted and strengthening the manufacturing sector. So without it, there is no overall strengthening of the economy. The desire for Croatia to have an economic rate, the rate of growth of 8-9% as there are such examples in Europe are our wishes, and let this remain our common goal as well as the fact that a GDP of $10,000 per capita can be a achieved goal. I know it can be because some countries have started with a much smaller GDP, and today at 30,000, of course, are not in one period of office but in more than one term of office. The example of Ireland, which was one of the most underdeveloped countries within the European Union, today has about $30,000 per capital GDP. Therefore, we agree with all these proposals, and as you have seen from all our steps from the election campaign to today, and so it will be in the future, the economy will be at the heart of and economic issues, economic issues, economic growth will be at the heart of our policy and our activities. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Lesar objected that the program arrived on the benches this morning. Yes, and as my present representative, I have often referred such a complaint to the government, and we will try to avoid it from now on. In this case it was impossible to avoid because we waited until last night until there was no vote and acceptance of that package of the Government Act, we were unable to come out with this proposal. Without a vote and without the Parliament's decision on the new formation of the government and the state administration, we were unable to come out with this proposal from the government and the programme. This was a prerequisite, a basic prerequisite for us to go before him, and that is why he was sent to the deputies afterwards. Mr. Chehok, I accept your suggestion that this sentence should be restored to spiritual peace, should not be in the program, but I could and would agree with you that spiritual and creative unrest should be restored, so let's add that NO, no, so that will be in line with your proposal. The text of the government programme has been said by many in principle. He is so in every occasion in every government, both in Croatia and in other countries. In the budget it's well said someone seems to me to represent Lesar, you will see the operationalization of this program, and there we will be able to talk about specification and much more details than there is in this occasion than there can be words. I would like to say that even for a few, answer a few questions from HSP's Club of Representatives, which was asked by a respected representative, Anto Djapic. First of all, we remain firm on the definition of Croatia on individual individual evaluations on its path to the European Union and NATO, which was one of your issues. So we are in favour and welcomed the decision of the European Union from Thessaloniki in 2003, so this year, in which the perspective of the European Union opens up to all Member States, to all the countries of this part of Europe. We also welcome Serbia-Montenegro's path towards the European Union, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Albania, Macedonia, but Croatia will not wait for those countries, nor would we want another country waiting for a third country. Let each one, according to his own accomplishment and evaluation, go forward. We have no idea, and here we agree and very clear, the sale of the Adriatic or agricultural land. We'll take good care of that. Also, no Croatian settler will stay or need, nor will they go to the street. Addressing the issue of return of Serb refugees or any other nationality. I would like to say a few words, since you asked us to say a few and to read about the pension agreement, with the pensioners and with the representatives of the national minorities. We have very responsiblely negotiated these agreements, signed them, and I can tell you that we have done a simulation of the budget and that everything we have signed is possible. Not in the first year, not even in any period of office, but they remain as one commitment and we will see in line with the economic opportunities of the country and the development of the economy and the growth of the economy. Of course for some other elections it will also be a topic, but they are not the obligations that have been made so that they can be achieved in one term all, some yes, some not. Secondly, in view of your other proposals, we will also consider how we will do so with proposals from other representatives' clubs, so I will refer to the presentation of the president of the club of representatives, i.e. the representative of the SDP club, Mr Arlovic. I'll just say that the SDP club has the right like everyone else to decide how to vote on this government, but I will remind the Croatian public that in 2000 we who were then lost the elections, the Croatian Democratic Community, that we were in the government's confidence vote because we felt that we should give the government an opportunity which the voters had just inaugurated as the supreme instance of democracy, and therefore the HDZ club, although we moved from the government's position to the opposition, that we then supported the government, which did not exclude our future criticism and critical review of government proposals, but we considered it a single civil act to give the government a chance, because every government that takes responsibility for Croatia, is not the government of the SDP, HDZ, HSS, HSS, HSS or any other party, but the government of the entire Croatian state and all Croatian citizens. And so, I repeat, the SDP Club, I would prefer, of course, that in this case as it was in the beginning of 2000 after those elections, we have a good start, but everyone has the right to make their own decision. I remind the public that HDZ then voted for the government of Ivica Racan, which did not exclude our critical review and critical review of all the proposals that came to the Croatian Parliament. It was simply an act of civilization. But I repeat, the SDP Club as well as everyone else has the right to make their own decisions. I forgot about the HSP proposal to say that I agree and that this is one of our proposals for a good future law, we will propose that all political parties bring it to the Croatian Parliament, the law on political parties. To also, because I think it's excessive, of course, everyone has the right to democracy to set up a party, but that simply that for a country of 4 and a half million people that 91 registered party is simply too much. Therefore, I accept this HSP proposal that an inter-party agreement can help the government, and the parties in the Parliament can agree to make a law on political parties, as well as a law on the transfer of power. In negotiations and talks with the current government, we agreed with former Prime Minister Racan that both yesterday and today should be in the Croatian Parliament, so as you can see, the current ministers are still sitting, although most of them are elected representatives, sitting still in the government's benches. But that also applies to officials who don't know what's going to happen today. I've said and I'm staying on it, and you're going to evaluate it according to conduct, there won't be any rematch. But I will also say openly here, in front of this Visko home, that it is totally unacceptable, completely unacceptable and contrary to all democratic standards that since 23 November, from the day of the election on which the Croatian voter said no, that certain ministers, and according to Prime Minister Racan, who gave them his word that this would not happen, that even behind his back they had made some decisions, human nature, even financial nature. Racan and I agreed in the process of handovering that we would make an audit, that is, an inventory of everything that happened after 23 November in all the resolutions, in all the ministries, and this has to do with this law that we are talking about and that we will, I will report it then as representative and president of the SDP and we will present it to the Croatian Parliament. It's inadmissible, ladies and gentlemen, I've lived abroad for a long time, but even if I hadn't been democratic, it would have been completely understandable for me if it hadn't been done. I cannot make personnel decisions after the voter has told you no and what the voter has decided to change power. No financial commitments can be made. Yesterday, for example, a council of the Croatian Tourist Board was elected. And it could have waited another two, three days. It's not right, it's not right. Also, the administrative board of the foundation of Croatia without mines and not to list any further. In a small-time conversation, Prime Minister Racan told me he was against it. We're going to do a review, an inventory of all decisions from November 23rd to December 22nd, and I'm going to brief the former prime minister on that. So, I'm going to invite him to a conversation so that, in accordance with democratic standards, we can sort things out. But make sure that's also one of the reasons why it needs to be passed and I support the law on the transfer of power. I'm going to take a brief look at the national minority exposure and the national minority. Thank you for your support, thank you for the words you've given me. I think this is one step and we're what we wrote in the program, and I want to point out that we're proud to have reached an agreement. Such an agreement that we stand behind, but also to avoid some public dilemmas and misinterpretations of the agreement. No way, I'll say, for example, the bilinguality of the street name, the name. The river won't be Fiume. There's no doubt about that. So let's get it off the agenda right now. Neither was it in agreement nor did Radin ask for it, nor did it, nor does it stand. Neither does it stand out in agreement, but that we're going to meet, and that we're going to meet all those who speak Italian, and they're having trouble getting one civil servant somewhere in the police, state administration, in the state administration, so the police can communicate with him absolutely. And I think that's one civilization reach, a civilization act like we're going to do tomorrow, which has nothing to do with national minorities' status, and we're going to do that service for German tourists, either on the Adriatic. That they can be somewhere if they need to be, that there's an official who can speak both German or other language that, why not? One service more, especially when it comes to an indigenous national minority such as Italian. And the greater sensitivity of the state towards minorities we want to show, we simply want to be a service to all citizens and not including minorities, not these, not those. It's our obligation and our right. I'm also going to say something about the double right to vote, or so on. positive discrimination. Yes, all minority representatives asked for it. We said it was the opposite of our program and we didn't accept it. I have shown my understanding of the position of representatives of national minorities who have said that in such a, in that part of the legislation, they will not support the government, or they will vote as they believe, as in some other cases, as they consider necessary and useful. But our programme, the Croatian Democratic Community programme, was very clear there and that is why we are here as was the previous parliamentary majority, said that this cannot be acceptable to us. I thank you for the suggestions Mr. Radosha also spoke at the Club of Libre, as well as everyone else. Finally, I want to say that this government has five priorities. We have worked them out for sure that there will be one of the priorities of what Mr. William Herman has proposed, one of the priorities will be decentralisation and in terms of fiscal policy. But that, we'll talk about it in particular. Key five guarantees, not promises, but guarantees that we have made in the election campaign remain our orientations of future work. Tax cuts, economic growth, employment growth, standards growth and finally, membership in the European Union and NATO. It's a Christmas atmosphere and atmosphere. That's not why I'm asking for your support. I ask for support for this because the Croatian voters have decided so. Above all, we respect the will of Croatian voters. As party president and as president, and as prime minister of the future Croatian government, with full responsibility, I claim that all the talks and negotiations we have had in these four weeks since the elections to this day, we have led in such a spirit that everything we have drawn in the future is for the benefit of all Croatian citizens. Not that part of the electoral body elected by the Croatian Democratic Community and our partners in the government or the Parliament that will support us, but that we will be the Government of all Croatian citizens and that we will serve, not rule. Because we consider politics by serving citizens, not by ruling citizens. That we will serve all citizens and be, try as hard as we can, and confident that we have a good combination and experienced, but also young, young politicians. And here, I'm looking at the esteemed Mr. Flight, and I'm going to look back at his future, his imaginative exposure, since the Christmas atmosphere is also a bit nearer and we can be more relaxed, and by continuing on yours, your comments on the hobbies of future ministers, perhaps your imaginative exposure leads to some minister and that he's starting to deal with the hobby of cavalry. Here we will seek help, and here we will ask for the help of Croatian Parliament President Vladimir Seks, who as one of the first decisions of the Government of Ivica Racan was removed from the seat of the President of the Governing Council of the National Ergel of Horses. [[Intruder: It is for the return of lipiscaners, you must not forget it. There are 200 lipicans in Serbia, they should be returned to Croatia]] That's, that was one of the first decisions, right? No, a member. Now, if you'll excuse me, he wasn't the president. He was a member. Member of the Governing Council. Okay. For last, I thank everyone once again for your attention. All the suggestions we're going to make, we're going to take and see from the phonogram. I wrote down a good part of them. I couldn't comment on it all, but we'll also consider it according to our policy, and I don't see much difference in what you've been saying and what you're trying to accomplish. I'm asking for your support. Those who will vote for this government will mean that they support us in this kind of program, does not mean that everyone will support everything that comes to Parliament. Logically, we will try to achieve the best solutions for Croatia in this dialogue that we really want it to be much more quality than it has ever been. Those who vote against should do so according to their conscience and that is the legitimate right and legal right of every representative and every party. I want anyone or maybe more to finish when after the vote, if, yes, give me another chance. Here's so much in this part of the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u344	I would like to thank the Prime Minister. Please Mr. Furi Radin for, there's one explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u345	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In addition to all the nice words that we have referred to the Prime Minister, which we repeat, I just want to give one little false assumption, and that is that what we imagine, for example, in Rijeka, and for the rest of the cities it will be quite different, it is not possible to deal with tourists... I want to say very, very clearly, very clearly what we think. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] We think that there must be places where there will be no translator, but where there will be a person who will in Italian agree with an Italian who is on the other hand exactly respecting you, sir. And let the tourists take a different path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u346	So please the prime minister that yet,
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u347	Well, I did, I just wanted to say what we agreed, and that's exactly what you just said, and I went one step further. Of course, national minorities are something else and by their status, dignity has nothing to do with tourists. I said the more we will go, the more we will continue, and we will offer tourists and others who come to Croatia such a service because it is in line with the standards of other countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u348	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Before the vote, I would like to inform the Croatian Parliament of the decision of the Croatian Parliament Presidency. Namely, all representatives of national minorities in the Croatian Parliament proposed to the Croatian Parliament Presidency a proposal for a decision of the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament, which was adopted unanimously today by the Croatian Parliament Presidency as its political position, concluded and adopted. The motion for a decision reads: “The representatives of national minorities in the interest of the dignity of the parliamentary mandate and the dignity of this House at the beginning of its session appeal in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, the democratic values on which we have been elected and the dignity of each voter, regardless of his religious, ethnic or political membership, and in light of the recent public statements that they are bound in accordance with the oath we have today made that, whether in Parliament or outside of him, they will not show any form of intolerance or attitudes that could cause conflicts and hatred in the public and social life of the Republic of Croatia. The Bureau of Parliament adopted that decision as a political position, and I ask that this House of Highs take note. We're going to vote. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has been established that the government is on duty when it is trusted by the majority of all MPs in the Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure have been established to vote in favour of the proposal as a whole. I would like to put Dr. Ivo Sanader that the Croatian Parliament shows confidence to the president and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please, who is to vote in favour of the President and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Please a moment, a moment. [[Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs first need to find out, formally. I find that most votes; 88 votes in favour, 29 against and 14 abstentions, the Croatian Parliament expressed confidence in the Prime Minister, Mr Ivo Sanader and members of the government. Let me congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the Prime Minister, Mr. Ivo Sanader, the Vice-Presidents of the Government and all the ministers and wish them successful and effective work. Now, gentlemen and ladies, we're going to be taking the opportunity to thank, on your behalf and on behalf of the current government, President Ivica Racano. It is now up to the President and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to swear. Ladies and gentlemen, by showing confidence to the President and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the conditions for the Prime Minister and the members of the Government to make a solemn oath have been obtained. This appropriation is intended to The Rules of Procedure set out a way to swear the way in which the oath is given, according to that article, the President pronounces the text of the oath, and subsequently calls upon the members of the Government who stand up and say "I swear". I'll read the text of the oath. I swear that I will exercise conscious and honorable conduct, respect the Constitution and the laws and legal order, and advocate all progress made by the Republic of Croatia. I ask the Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader to take the oath, say the word "I swear."
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u349	I swear. /I'm s a k/
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u350	Thank you. I would like the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Family and Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity to Mrs. Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u351	I swear. /I'm s a k/
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u352	I'm asking the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Health and Social Welfare for Professor Andrew Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u353	I swear. /I'm s a k/
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u354	I'd like the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dr. Miomir Zuzul.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u355	I swear. /I'm s a k/
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u356	The Minister of Finance, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u357	I swear. /I'm s a k/
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u358	I'd like the Secretary of Defense, Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u359	I swear. /I'm s a k/
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u360	I'd like the Minister of the Interior of Dr. Marijan Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u361	I swear. /I'm s a k/
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u362	I'm asking Justice Minister Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u363	I swear. /I'm s a k/
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u364	Please, Minister of Labour and Entrepreneurship Branko Vukelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u365	I swear. /I'm s a k/
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u366	Please, Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, Bozidar Kalmet.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u367	I swear. /I'm s a k/
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u368	I pray to the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, Petar Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u369	I swear. /I'm s a k/
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u370	I ask the Minister of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction Marina Matulović-Dropulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u371	I swear. /I'm s a k/
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u372	I'm asking the Minister of Science, Education and Sports, Dr Dragan Primorac.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u373	I swear. /I'm s a k/
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u374	I'm asking the Minister of Culture, the Master of God Bishop.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u375	I swear. /I'm s a k/
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u376	And please, Minister of European Integration, Master Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u377	I swear. /I'm s a k/
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u378	I'd like the Prime Minister of Doctor Ivo Sanader for a review.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u379	Just a short thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament thank you for your words, ladies and gentlemen, I thank all the MPs and MPs who supported us with their vote, who supported the new government, but also to all those who discussed today and gave their proposals an incentive to think about the new government, as I said earlier, we will respect everyone with a high dose of responsibility, responsibility and installation in our programme. I expect good co-operation with parties who have not supported the government, because I believe that there are interests that are above party and that the Government can never and can never be party-colored. We learned from the Croatian Democratic Community a lot from the past, we learned from this stage where we were the opposition in the Croatian Parliament. All this experience will be built into the future work of this government that should serve citizens and that should work on the well-being of all people in Croatia. The government will serve all citizens, the state administration is there to serve, not rule. We will be the Government of all, not just those who gave us the vote either in the November 23rd elections, either today in the Croatian Parliament. I would like to thank my predecessor, Mr. Ivica Racan, who, despite his illness, came here today and with whom we will now make a handover in the Banski Dvora for everything his government and all the ministers have done to the good in the past four years. and finally I want all the representatives and MPs, all the Croats and Croats and all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia happy and blessed Christmas in the atmosphere of peace and in the circle of their loved ones as well as the successful New Year 2004. Thank you. /I'm s a k/
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u380	Ladies and gentlemen, we still have only one short job left, and that is that the Mandate-Immunity Report Commission submits a report in order to be able to take an oath by representatives who were just before the members of the Government, and those representatives who come as deputy deputies for the newly elected members of the Government. That's why I'm setting a 10-minute break, after which a report will be submitted. Ladies and gentlemen! I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u382	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, members of the Government, dear fellow MPs! At the 2nd session held on 23 December of this year, the mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed written requests from MPs in accordance with Article 14. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament puts their parliamentary mandate on hold. The Commission also discussed written notifications from political parties notified by the Croatian Assembly on the names of deputies who, in accordance with Article 12(1) of the Law, will act as a representative during the term of office of elected deputies. The commission found that the decision to hold the parliamentary mandate of representatives acting as members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia until the Croatian Parliament expressed confidence in the new Government of the Republic of Croatia was reached at the 1st meeting of the Mandate-Immunity Commission and that the Croatian Parliament held at the Constitutional Session on 22 December and adopted. The Commission found that Article 9 was in line with Article 9 of the basic Regulation. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament which determines the non-compliance of parliamentary duties with the simultaneous conduct of the duties referred to in paragraph 2 shall be subject to the conditions laid down in paragraph 3 of the law for the start of the stay of the parliamentary term of office of the following representatives: Petra Cobanković, Master Boži Biskupić, Prof. dr. Andri Hebrang, mr. Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović, Bozidar Kalmeti, Jadranka Kosor, Marijana Mlinarić, Dr. Ivo Sanader, Vesni Skare-Ozbolt, Ivan Shuker, Branko Vukelic and Prof. Dr. Miomir Zuzulu. Political parties have proposed that part of elected deputies whose term of office rests on the basis of Article 12(1) of the law from their list of unselected candidates in election units begin to act: Ruža Lelic, deputy deputy candidate candidate in the 5th election unit as candidate on the Croatian Democratic Union list instead of Petra Cobankovic, Jagoda Majska-Martinčević, deputy deputy candidate in the 1st election unit as candidate in the list of the Croatian Democratic Community instead of the magistrate God of Bishop, Katarina Fuček, deputy deputy deputy candidate in the 2nd election unit as candidate on the list of the Croatian Democratic Union instead of Prof. Dr. Andrija Hebranga, Bozica Šolić, deputy representative running at 7. Election unit as candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of Mr. Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović, Mirjana Brnadić, deputy deputy deputy candidate in the 9th election unit as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Union list instead of Božidar Kalmeta, Marko Širac, deputy deputy candidate in the 1st election unit as candidate in the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of Jadranka Kosor, Vladimir Pleško deputy MPs run in the 3rd election unit as a candidate on the list of Croatian Democratic Union instead of Marija Mlinarić, Kajo Bucan deputy MPs run in the 10th election unit as candidate for the Croatian Democratic Union instead of Dr. Ivo Sanader, Mate Brletić deputy MPs run in the 5th election unit as a candidate for the Croatian Social Liberal Party and the Democratic Centre instead of Vesna Škara-Ozbolt, Željko Krapjan deputy candidate in the 6th electoral unit as candidate for the Croatian Democratic Union instead of Ivan Šuker, Nikola Sopčić is a deputy candidate in the 7th election unit as candidate for the Croatian Democratic Union instead of Branko Vukelić and Danir Bilic, deputy candidate for the 7th election unit as candidate for the Croatian Democratic Union instead of Prof. Dr. Miomir Zuzula. In accordance with the stated Mandate-Immunity Commission, it proposes to the Croatian Parliament the next decision, to suspend the term of office of MPs and to initiate the conduct of the representative's office, and to begin the stay of the representative's representative's mandate and to start acting as deputy deputies. On 23 December 2003, the term of office shall cease to rest, and the following representatives shall act on that day: Ivica Racan, Slavko Linic, Prof. Dr. Mato Church, Željka Antunović, Šime Lucin, Tonino Picula, Dr. Ljubo Jurčić, Ivica Pancic, Dr. Antun Vujic, mr. Bozidar Pankretić, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, Davorko Vidović, Mr. Neven Mimica, Radimir Cacic, Željko Pecek, Dr. Ivo Banac and Gordana Sobol. On 23 December 2003, the parliamentary mandate began to rest, and on that day, the parliamentary duties began to act as deputies: Ruža Lelic, deputy deputy MPs run in the 5th election unit as candidates on the Croatian Democratic Union list instead of Petra Cobanković, Jagoda Maja-Martincevic, deputy MPs nominated in the 1st election unit as candidates on the list of the Croatian Democratic Community instead of the magistrate, God of Biskupić, Katarina Fuček, deputy MPs run in the 2nd election unit as candidate on the list of the Croatian Democratic Union instead of Prof. Dr. Andrija Hebranga, Bozica Šolić, deputy representative running at 7. Election unit as candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of Mr. Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović, Mirjana Brnadić, deputy deputy deputy candidate in the 9th election unit as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Union list instead of Božidar Kalmeta, Marko Širac, deputy deputy candidate in the 1st election unit as candidate in the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of Jadranka Kosor, Vladimir Pleško deputy MPs run in the 3rd election unit as a candidate on the list of Croatian Democratic Union instead of Marija Mlinarić, Kajo Bucan deputy MPs run in the 10th election unit as candidate for the Croatian Democratic Union instead of Dr. Ivo Sanader, Mate Brletić deputy MPs run in the 5th election unit as a candidate for the Croatian Social Liberal Party and the Democratic Centre instead of Vesna Škara-Ozbolt, Željko Krapjan deputy candidate in the 6th electoral unit as candidate for the Croatian Democratic Union instead of Ivan Šuker, Nikola Sopčić is a deputy candidate in the 7th election unit as candidate for the Croatian Democratic Union instead of Branko Vukelić and Danir Bilic, deputy candidate for the 7th election unit as candidate for the Croatian Democratic Union instead of Prof. Dr. Miomir Zuzula. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-23-0.u383	I would like to thank the chairman of the committee, Mr. Damir Sesvecan. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the Decision in accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that the decision has been made unanimously. We're going to take an attorney's oath. In accordance with Article 7. The Rules of Procedure shall read the text of the oath, after which they shall be called by name. A representative when he was called up and said, "I swear.". I'll read the text of the oath. "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will abide by the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia." Now I'm going to call an MP and everybody get up and say, "I swear." Ivica Račan - I swear, Slavko Linić - I swear, Mato Church-I swear, Željka Antunović-I swear, Shime Lucin-I swear, Tonino Picula-I swear, Ljubo Jurčić-I swear, Ivica Pančić-I swear, Antun Vujić-I swear, Božid Pankretić-I swear, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović-I swear, Davorko Vidović-I swear, Neven Mimica-I swear, Radimir Čačić-I swear, Željko Pacek-I swear, Ivo Banac-I swear, Gordana Sobor-I swear, Ruža Lelic-I swear, Jagoda Maja-Martinčević-I swear, Katarina Fuček-I swear, Bozica Šolić-I swear, Mirja Brnović-prisež, Mavrišm-Prišm-Prišm, Vladimir-Prišm-Prišm. Thank you very much. Congratulations to the MPs and MPs on their sworn oath, and I wish them success in carrying out an honorable and responsible representative's duty. [[Applause]] I apologize to my colleague Davorko Vidovic for the wrong emphasis on the name. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, a few notices, a session of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs will be held in Hall 133 immediately after this session. And at the end of this session, allow me once again to thank Mr. Zlatko Tomcic's President-in-Office of the Parliament for his leadership this 4 years. Let me also congratulate all the representatives and advocates of this call, the Prime Minister and the members of the government, you, your families, everyone who celebrates Christmas, Merry Christmas and New Year. I'm closing the session. Thank you. And there's a dominoes down there.
