ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u38	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am opening the 2nd extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament, and I welcome you all. I convened an extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of Article 197, paragraph 2. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, therefore, at the request of the President of the Republic. Madam and gentlemen, with a call for the session, you have also received a draft agenda. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure order first to decide on a proposal to adopt a specific law by an urgent procedure. Following an emergency procedure, it is proposed to pass three laws: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading. Proposed Law No. 1. Proposal for a law on formation and the part-rounding of ministries and state-run administrative organisations with the Final Bill, an emergency procedure, first and second reading. Proposed Law No 3. And third, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Administration System with the Final Proposal for Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading. Proposed Law No. 2. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act, the first of which, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia? There isn't. I ask that MPs and MPs be made aware of who is in favour of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you very much. I find that with 104 votes for and 17 against on the agenda, the final draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia was included. Secondly, who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of the Ministry and of the State Administration Organisations? Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you very much. Who's against it? I find that, with 96 votes in favour and 25 votes against on the agenda, the final draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the establishment and part-round of ministries and state-run administrative organisations was included. Third, who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of State Administration? Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you very much. Who's against it? I find that, with 97 votes for and 24 against on the agenda, the final draft law on amendments to the Law on the State Administration System has been included. There were no objections to the agenda I proposed with the call for a session and this agenda was in accordance with Article 203(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda has been established. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure should now publish the established agenda. I suggest, if you agree, that I do not read the full agenda but only to announce that the agenda has been established as proposed in the draft agenda, and in accordance with the proposal, in accordance with Article 223(3), I propose, and this is also suggested by individual representatives clubs to conduct a joint discussion on these three laws, with the right of the representatives of the clubs to have an extended discussion of 20 minutes in order to be able to share those 20 minutes, that one of them must not be divided into two or more of those 20 minutes. If you agree to bring the debate together in this way, I ask that we also confirm it by voting. Who's in favor of this united debate? Against? There isn't. Abstained? There isn't. I find that a unanimous conclusion has been reached that these three laws are being held in a united debate. Proposer, proposer of these three laws is the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this Act. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites both first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. These reports, these two committees multiply. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the proposals of these three laws? Yeah. Mr Ivo Sanader, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Union Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Croatian public expects much from the new convocation of the Croatian Parliament and the new term of office of the new legislative period. We are also in our electoral programme, and it wasn't just us, there were initiatives and other parties from the HSP to the government, we proposed that the number of ministries be reduced, that the government be effective. So I thank all those today, tonight who have supported their vote to go into emergency proceedings and that tonight we can if God finish the debate and vote these three laws. I call upon all those who have some suggestions in the form of amendments to submit them immediately, if they are constructive and good, of course we will consider and accept them. We'll be grateful for every good initiative. I want first of all to say that Croatia has come out of a difficult time, from a difficult period. During that period, we had governments that were what they were, who we inherited and what we inherited today. The government has 19 ministries and another without a wallet, so 20 ministers. For a country of 4.5 million or so, it's too much. We have comparisons with other countries, from Germany, which has 80 million inhabitants and 13 ministries, to Austria which has about 11 million inhabitants of 12 ministries, to our neighbours Slovenians, Hungarians, Spanish, Irish, so I'm talking about members of the European Union, they're all here somewhere between 12 and 15 ministries, Romania, for example, made one big turn six months ago. Somewhere in June this year, with 27 ministries as many as they had, they cut the number by almost 10. So what we are proposing tonight is the first step in one intention for the administration to be a citizen service. We want to show it from the head. We want to start from the government, and then we should do this in accordance with this, try to make an effort all together to get to the local administrations themselves to the city to the municipality and not to talk about the county, to do this, and to really make the administration not a red tape that is its own purpose, but to be a citizen service. In that sense, the smaller number of ministries that we propose is 14, I will read them later, guarantee not only the savings on which more words will be given when ministers get and tasks on rationalisation, because when they merge, ipsofakto counts on both savings and rationalisation, but we are counting primarily on the effectiveness of the Government on its more efficient organisation and activity. So far, we have been witnesses, and I can testify as Minister of Science for the past 92, 93, that we have had terrible problems in mutual coordination in the interaction between the ministries and later as Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs I could also see for myself. In this way, in the philosophy of merger and approach to the merger of ministries of reducing the number of ministries in the last 6 7 months, we from the Croatian Democratic Community have consulted a whole series of experts from certain areas, so not only have we compromised what is in the West, which has already proved to be good, but we have also consulted people who do so, people from the profession and we have come to this number 14, perhaps it could have been smaller, my personal desire was to be smaller, but in the end, after all the consultations we have stopped at number 14, because in this approach we considered it to be at this point perhaps the most appropriate for Croatia. It was of course, and there will be objections, there will be those who will not be satisfied. But you know when something goes into some kind of change, when it goes into some kind of radical change, because the reduction in the number of ministries by 5 is radical change, then you always have those that are in favour and against. And we're dealing with it. It will be those who are in favor and against. I am convinced that practice will show that those who were in favour and who supported us will be right. Because an effective state administration can be the only one that's elastic, which is thin, not a bulky machine of 20 ministers. And in that sense, we did not follow the logic, we did not go with this less resistance logic to accept and to remain on the status quo, at the founding state, because that would be, politically least of all, there would be no problem if we continued, but we went in such an approach, for which I would ask understanding and support. It seems to me that we will all agree on that so that the easiest thing to do is to leave everything the way it is. But then how to run Croatia, how to activate all those human potentials, the creative potentials that we have, how to reactivate the incentive and start the entrepreneurship of our people, the creativity of our people, and I believe that we have entrepreneurs and capable people, that we only need the authority from the state level to the local level that will enable them. and in this sense, our proposal is, therefore, to have 14 ministries in the government as follows: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Ministry of Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, Ministry of Health and Social Care, Ministry of Science, Education and Sport, Ministry of Culture, Ministry of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity and the Ministry of European Integration. In the approach we had two possible ways of looking. One thing was it necessary to combine something that was self-contrased? Or should they be left in separate corridors, so that everyone will fight for himself as it has been the case so far? We picked the first one. We felt that, for example, the economy and the work that have so far been in two separate ministries, which in themselves are opposed, because on the one hand they are, and they should not be, because they are at the same job, they are at the same job as both the businessmen and the workers. We felt that it was much better to have them under one roof, so that possible recommendations, different views of things, had problems under one roof in one vault in one ministry, and then, as a joint proposal, went to the government and before the Parliament with their solutions. Another approach was possible to leave them separate, so that everyone struggled for their positions and see which minister was stronger, and that minister then won. That was so far, I was a witness to such governments, and this last one of Racan's, and that's the last Matesha they were like that and it didn't work. In addition to fighting between ministers, apart from the dispute between resistors, there were fights between certain groups in society. We believe that a much better, more open and accessible dialogue can be conducted in between, let's call them the opposing sides of a vault. And that's why, in the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, we have introduced the economy and entrepreneurship, we propose that work be introduced, so far the Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare would no longer exist as such, but that part of the ministry would go to the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship and the other part of the ministry, that part of the social care at the Ministry of Health. A few words about the integration of these two ministries, first of all work and small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, are a logical sequence since the economy which is precisely because it is complex and should be seen as a single unit within which specific segments should be addressed. Small and medium-sized enterprises need to be associated with large companies and systems through economic policy measures. And to increase the complexity of products and joint appearances in domestic and foreign markets. The integration of these two ministries should result in more coordinated and efficient work in the economy. This will contribute to the realisation of one of the government's most important priorities, which is economic growth and an increase in gross social product. An integral part of the economy, as I have said, is editing and working relations, labour markets, employment, relations with trade unions and employers' associations. By including the segment in the joint ministry, as I said, it will contribute to a better quality social dialogue and solutions aimed at economic growth and fair regulation of employment relations, as well as a reduction of unemployment and all in order to increase living standards. Some political observers, the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development have called the mega ministry, and perhaps so. But we hold that sea, road infrastructure and tourism are fundamental to the development of a country like Croatia. There are logical and very justified reasons why these resolutions should be within one ministry. Maritime, road, rail and air infrastructure are most important for the development of the country, especially for development and economic branches such as tourism. How to live on the sea as a maritime land if there are no good ports, the links of these ports to the islands and other ports of the world, or if there is no connection of these ports via highways and roads with other parts of Croatia and Europe. In all of this, we see tourism as an upgrade that will promote Croatia into a tourist country using this infrastructure and thus lead to Croatia living and harvesting more significantly than tourism. Therefore, this ministry will allow for better coordination of these portfolios, but also better usability of the comparative advantages that Croatia has. In the Ministry of Agriculture, we included a water economy. And this is based on previous experiences as one of the greatest natural resources we have concluded is optimal inclusion, that the optimal solution is the integration of a water economy within the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. There were other suggestions, we decided on this solution. There is already control over soil and forests in the ministry, and such a solution is imposed as most logical because it covers the overall protection of water potentials both in terms of their preservation and in terms of effective exploitation of economic opportunities. It should be noted that only about 1% of total agricultural areas are irrigated in Croatia today and is therefore one of the most important elements of the government's programme and, in the context of increasing the production of quality food, the launch of irrigation projects. The government is aware of the strategic importance of water and is convinced that this will put the water economy in the right position. The Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction also includes the problem of housing and the communal economy united in this Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction because it forms an interdependent and coherent system in the overall economic and social policy respecting the fundamental postulates of sustainable development. Croatia has, ladies and gentlemen, a high value location rent and cultural heritage whose preservation of further development and evaluation of vital national interest. The spatial planning is an adequate framework, bringing together the essential elements of economic and overall social development. This means that appropriate spatial planning ensures the protection of space, its optimal use, the construction of infrastructure, and the construction and further design of urban and rural areas. The establishment, efficient and criteria of spatial planning and environmental protection of an appropriate municipal system is an essential element for ensuring uniform regional development and promoting economic foundations. The communal standard and equipment of infrastructure facilities is an important segment of quality of life. This includes the responsibility of this Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction for the Conservation, Reconstruction and Creating of Conditions for the Construction of a New Housing Fund, particularly bearing in mind the needs of young families and social housing and the promotion of market housing as a significant element of overall economic growth. At the Department of Health like we said, we involve social care. Because there is no sharp limit between the organisation of health care and social care. This is also evidenced by the fact that about 15% of patients who are mixed with social medical cases who are the primary problem in our hospitals. This applies in particular to the population of elderly people or those with severe chronic diseases, which, with health problems, also have the status of socially endangered persons. In Croatia there is a significant lack of accommodation for such persons, so shelter is often found in hospitals. The unification of two resolutions opens up the possibility of better cooperation and solving common problems to more rational in hospitals due to the transition to more rational treatment in hospitals and hospitals, and this surplus can be converted into housing of the social and health hazards of the population. Such accommodation, ladies and gentlemen, is much cheaper than hospital accommodation because it does not require high personnel criteria as acute hospitals, since the focus is mostly on care and treatment of patients. The merger of resources will boost the cooperation of healthcare professionals and social care experts modelled by many European countries. It is worth mentioning here that in 1991 we had such an experience and that it was a period of positive experience, we later went into the changes that have been shown in our opinion that they were not good and therefore we suggest that it go back. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports was created by integration, or by integration of the former Ministry of Science and Technology and the Ministry of Education and Sports. The fundamental idea of joining two existing ministries is to achieve greater integration of the education system with science and all in order to implement the latest knowledge in the education and education system. This way of organising will ensure that education standards as well as a coherent education and scientific system are directly brought into line with the country's development strategy. In addition, the proposed model will provide and necessary knowledge-based systematic development of sports and body culture. An integrated approach to seeing knowledge, education and sports, and the close co-operation of this ministry with other ministries and state administrative organisations is a prerequisite for Croatia's strong launch. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports performs administrative and other tasks related both to the system and preschool, primary school and secondary education and education as well as to the system of high education in the country and abroad. And not to list everything else he does and what's already known. We are introducing a new ministry, we are proposing the introduction of a new ministry for family, defender and intergenerational solidarity because the family of ladies and gentlemen belongs first and foremost to a special place in society and it also has it on the basis of constitutional provisions. Which says that the state particularly protects families, children, youth, and motherhood. We in Croatia have a lot of problems one of these is bad demographic images, and catastrophic demographic forecasts. If we continue this way, since we are among the sad European rectors for the negative growth of the population, because every year more people die than children are born, I'm afraid those forecasts of black people who say that in 40 years, we will have a million less inhabitants. And therefore also a symbolic and substantively clear message of ours for which I request your support to the Croatian public that we also want through the special ministry to take care of the family on demographic restoration. This ministry unites family care from stopping the fall of birth, to fighting all forms of addiction as a particularly dangerous evil that threatens the family. To this end, we are preparing several legal projects that will restore some rights, but also better regulate some relations. The ministry will also prepare special programmes for many families, as well as for those with more children. New programmes for demographic development will be prepared in co-operation with leading Croatian demographics. This ministry has the task of preparing a new law on the rights of Croatian defenders, from the Homeland War and members of their families, and in all its activities to create a climate of restoring dignity to Croatian defenders. This will best be achieved by solving the problems that today’s defenders face. More important projects will include a programme for the employment of Croatian defenders and children of the dead Croatian defenders. The activities of intergenerational solidarity are based on the assumption that young people that children and pensioners are not competitive groups, but that activities to promote both and other, respectively, their rights are strengthened by what is the basis of the structure of this new ministry. And that's family. And finally the other ministries remain as they were. I would only briefly comment on our proposal, which I also ask for understanding, to exempt the administration from the Justice Department. There's a couple of reasons for that, except that the waist's been looking for it all along. Because the deliquor of the administration by nature of things doesn't belong to the delirious judiciary. It's even closer to the Ministry of the Interior than to the Ministry of Justice. Take, for example, his activity in the parent books of the born, the married, the dead. And the MUP on the other hand runs the books of citizenship means even b or closer to the MUP than the Ministry of Justice. And indeed management is and that is another reason interdisciplinary because it also works for all official relations education of civil servants. The strict responsibility of officials and deputies of all ministries, not the Ministry of Justice of all ministries. The administration is also interdisciplinary because administrative proceedings are being conducted in all ministries specifically. So each ministry has its own specific administrative procedure, and that is one reason more to really exempt the administration from the justice ministry. And in the end, I'd like to say a few more sentences about the proposal to set up a few state offices. So, from the judiciary, we would exclude the administration that would become a central government office. It would, or the central state office, carry out professional and administrative tasks. As regards the composition and structure of the state administration and local self-government, the political electoral system. Another would be the central state office for E Croatia and Croatia if we were to make an English excuse. That would coordinate the activities of the state administration body and connect with the private sector in the implementation of the project I Croatia. The I Croatia project predicts that a system will be established and networked that will allow citizens to communicate with public administration via the Internet. That's where we think about health care and education and the economy. This administration and this project would also place Croatia among those groups of countries within the European Union that accepted the Charter in Sevila and Croatia in 2005. We believe that we do not have the strength or that we can join the members of the European Union in achieving this objective in 2005. But we believe that we would be able to reach that level during this term of four years. As third office centrally we propose a central state property management office. All of you who have been in government especially now apostrophe of the current ruling coalition know that we have problems and that the state administration is primarily assigned to various ministries, different bodies of the administration, and the first and fundamental tasks of this central state office would be to build a cataster of the entire state property. Because we still don't know or know today because we know each other individually, every resistor for ourselves, but we don't have a single common cadastre of everything that belongs to state property. The office would carry out administrative and professional tasks relating to real estate and movables management. These stakes in trade societies owned by the Republic of Croatia, he proposed, would propose the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board and keep records of state property which is not specific to the law entrusted to the management of another body of the Drave Administration. We think that unifying the team could even achieve a better financial impact. We have a lot of state property that's dead capital today. Which lies a property that no one uses, we hold that it can be used. We even think about offering them, of course, through competitions, and companies for the management of assets or funds. So let them report to the tender to see who can do better, and to do better business on that property for the state, let them try to make a contract on the basis of the tenders and see how we can get that dead capital into something that we can get into the state budget. It's an idea I think she's brave, but I think she can be absolutely realized. Otherwise, if we stay like this, it's a waste of nobody's use, you give it to me, you give it to me, you give it to me, and so on. So we propose a central state property management office. We also propose the same office for the development strategy, which would carry out professional administrative and professional tasks, which relate to the design and implementation of the strategy for the development of the Republic of Croatia, which is something similar to what the current government had. The strategy office would coordinate with central government authorities, related to the achievement of the objectives of the strategy. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I could speak even more, but I think I've explained enough of the reasons why we're going down, we're proposing the number of ministries, and we're also proposing the reasons why we're joining certain resolutions into one resort d'abismo to become more efficient and efficient in our business. Once again, I thank all those who voted for the urgency of the procedure. Please, if he has any good amendments to propose. We will consider them even if they are truly good to accept. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u41	Thank you, Dr. President. Sanader who spoke on behalf of the promoter. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The chairman of the Legislative Committee, Mr. Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues in the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on Legislatives at the 1st session of course in this session discussed all three draft laws on the agenda. After the debate, the Legislative Committee decided to support the adoption of these laws in the Croatian Parliament and did not object to an urgent procedure for their adoption. On the text of the bill, all three who were in the discussion and we are now discussing, the Committee members, individual members of the Committee, have set out their views. The text of the draft law under point 3. - an assessment of the necessary means to implement the law - in accordance with Article 51(1). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament were issued by Josip Leko, the President and Dr. Ivo Josipovic, a member of the Committee, believes that the need for reform of the state administration covered by these laws will require adequate special means for insurance which the applicant has not originally stated. For this reason, they consider that the adoption of this law would be contrary to Article 90(2). This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In addition to the opinion set out, the Committee decided, in principle, that it would propose to the Proposer to review its amendments to remove shortcomings relating to the institution of the State Secretary and Office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore necessary to specify in the transitional and final provisions whether or not the Government’s office, which governs the Government, ceases to exist by the power of this law. As regards the State Secretary's Institute, consider his or her responsibilities to the Prime Minister and the Minister because interpretation is possible in order to ensure that the Secretary of State exercises supervision over the Minister. If it is added that the minister is also directly responding to Parliament, it could draw the conclusion that the secretary of state would control the person responsible for Parliament. It is proposed to the Proposer to make a statement on Article 4, in Article 5, Article 21c, and f. on the legal and linguistic and nomotechnical amendments in order to comply with the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. All three laws are subject to introductory arguments and separate opinions as well as to the State Secretary's Institute. As far as the Government Act is concerned, there are no significant objections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u43	I thank the chairman of the Legislative Committee. I ask the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of Mr. Bošnjakovic to report on the position of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u44	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System also discussed the proposal for all three of these laws at its 1st session today. The Committee discussed the laws on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the debate, we supported the proposal by proposing that all three laws be passed by emergency procedure, and most Committee members agreed with the solutions proposed in these laws. In the debate, the main issue was whether the funds for the implementation of these laws were secured. A particular opinion was that a more concrete source had to be provided. However, after the debate and the vote, 7 votes were in favour and 3 votes were against. And we propose as a committee to the Croatian Parliament to pass all three of these laws. A fellow respected representative, Mr. Mato Arlovic, adopted his opinion in accordance with Article 51. The Rules of Procedure for certain political, constitutional and nomotechnical reasons which he will probably explain himself. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u45	Thank you very much, President of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. My colleagues and colleagues, it is now beginning to run the hour in which more people want to apply for debates. So, at 18 o'clock, less than a minute, the time for the hearing is up. We're moving on to a debate. I'm opening a debate. First of all, it's SDP's Club of Representatives. Dear Vice-President of the House Mr. Mato Arlovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u46	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to make several remarks on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, both my views and our views, and one part will be presented by my colleague Josip Leko after me. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we reiterate that these three laws question whether they have been provided with the means to implement them in accordance with Article 90. The Constitution and Article 139. Rules of Procedure as it is indicated that no new funds are needed. We believe that the funds are needed because they are opening very serious reforms and will certainly cost these reforms, that new funds will need to be provided if not now, given what the majority will decide, then at least when amending and supplementing the budget in the next period. In any case, however, this issue is actually in the constitutional aspect because of Article 90. The Constitution for laws whose application requires financial resources must be provided for by their sources, and we did not provide for the sources for this application of these three laws. The second question we want to raise is the same question of responsibility that arises here. Especially in the case of amendments to the Government Act, the State Administration System Act. In fact, it is envisioned as a new institute, a state secretary institute, and in state offices and ministries that will practically do the job of deputy ministers in ministries. However, a newer model of responsibility is being given which says the deputy minister or the state secretary will be responsible for the prime minister and minister. The question is raised in relation to Article 114. The Constitution, which means responsibility for the resort. According to Article 114, it is clear and responsible that the Government is responsible for the Croatian Parliament, so collective responsibility. However, the president and members of the government are jointly responsible for the government's decisions. Once again collective responsibility, and personally responsible for their field of work, therefore personal responsibility or individual responsibility for the resolutions that each ministry covers. The question is, what does the State Secretary Institute mean now? If he responds to the prime minister who coordinates, he directs and if you want to organise the government's work, is he actually the minister or is he the one who controls on behalf of the prime minister? This is a question that is very serious and it is a conceptual nature and therefore we have a serious reserve in relation to these solutions offered in these bill proposals. The third remark we are also offering, we are in principle supporting, of course, reducing the number of ministries and reducing the government. By its scope and by its content in relation to the jurisdiction by content not, but by the scope of that. But what's particularly interesting is when you actually take the institutions that are currently being predicted, then you really see that it's a certain kind of microcry and that it's not about reducing the government. We have 14 ministries, we have 4 new central offices of the state administration and we have the Office of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia or a total of 19 entities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as much as we have now. For let's be realistic, the offices of the Government of the Republic of Croatia all others remain. These central offices will be run by state secretaries who are actually deputy ministers or ministers, while at the same time singled out certain activities and individual resolutions that have been within individual ministries. The objective question is actually what will happen, and for this reason we say that this reform of the administration is looking for new funds and new people, and not that it will lead to rationality and a reduction of the number of employees employed in certain sectors, and we must especially point out that part. We point out something else, that despite the fact that in the last term very often it has been warned and objected to the current still prime minister and his government that it is the Chancellor's Government, that he is acting as the Chancellor. That, in practice, in this model, the amendment and addition of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia was applied to a mixed concept and that it was not, in fact, a concept of what kind of government it would be. Applied concept, shared concept between actually an English model, so-called. cabinet governments and at the same time office governments from the German model. It's something that's incompatible, it can't last long. This may be a transitional period, but it can not be very long, because the question is raised if we will have an office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that performs professional and administrative tasks for the needs of the Prime Minister, if the Prime Minister is responsible and is co-ordinated by all ministers at the same time, while the state secretaries are responsible for the prime minister and ministers there in the ministries where they exist, and in the central offices of the state administration, or the state offices are responsible only for the prime minister, because there are no ministers there, then the question is, in fact, what segment will show the cabinet form of government's work, and will certainly be shown. This is not yet seen in what extent and content, but it is quite certain that the cabinet work will appear, which is a characteristic of the English model of the government's structure, and on the other hand, with regard to responsibility, will be applied by the Chancellor's model in Bundestag, that is, Germany. And in such a situation, it is quite clear that these two, this mixed concept, in fact, cannot obtain the results we wanted or wanted to achieve by reducing the ministries which we as a party in principle support and want to achieve. We want to point out another question that is also very important. It is at first glance of nomotechnical nature, but it is also of a substance nature. It seems that some of the solutions from the existing laws were not critically taken, since it was not taken into account that the laws that had not been amended and complemented and nomotechnically aligned with the legal system had already been amended and amended. And in this respect, for example, there are a whole series of solutions left between the people's defence issues and the question, if you will... that units of local self-government and administration are reintroduced into the system, and according to the Constitution itself, both on a vertical and on a horizontal line separated into a system of local self-government from the state administration as a fourth form of government that needs to be respected in particular and in which the opposite constitution cannot be touched. [[You don't understand.]] For all these reasons, we of the SDP Representatives Club will not be able to vote for these proposed three laws, we will be against these three bill proposals and so we will vote, and I ask my colleague Lek to continue in the section in which we agreed on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. It should be pointed out that the state administration is indeed a tropical and massive system in the Republic of Croatia and it is not disputed that it is perhaps most desirable to reorganise this part not only reorganise but rationalise it. To rationalize. And from this aspect, of course, that no one hopes in the Croatian Parliament or in Croatian society would mind setting those goals. So we can support our own goals. But what guarantees us that these goals will be achieved? On what basis is such a reorganisation of the vast and massive system of state administration proposed? On the basis of legal assumptions, not based on an analysis of the situation of administrative areas and administrative areas and the needs of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Can we be sure that's true? I think that's true, because that's what the proposer claims in his proposals. So the proposal itself is based on a political will and a political need that I can justify and understand, but it is not a political system for the sake of the government's needs, even if it is anyone in this House who needs citizens to exercise their rights faster and simpler. Under these laws, the efficiency of the state administration should be achieved, economic efficiency increased, or rationalised, by leaving two-stage resolution at the state administration, then separating local self-government from the state administration, which does not stand in the law, and the territorial availability of the state administration stands in the Constitution. There's no guarantee we'll get those targets. What can you really expect? We can be expected to spend significant resources for the needs of this reorganisation, and we are not sure whether it is in the right direction. I wish we had already established before us all the necessary state records from land and book offices, i.e. land books to catastra... organization, spatial plans, building particles, all kinds of rights of individual citizens and legal entities. [[You don't understand.]] Of course, we don't even know what rights it's all about. If we add that indeed one part of the section of the ministries has been copied from previous periods, and the times have changed and the circumstances have changed, and especially since once the legislative solutions have changed really requires that the Law on the Establishment and the Department of Ministers is very carefully promoted not only in the framework of the proposal and the suggestions of the Croatian Parliament Committee but I think that this is the interest of the Government itself, and will be seen when it is said that the Office for the State Administration does not define the part of the office. You don't define a cleavage. Let's just say I didn't find anywhere to decide on the administrative procedure for civil states and other states. Our opinion is that, at all costs, ad hoc should not have changed such a massive apparatus as the state administration and adapted it to the needs of the government. It is our view that the system should be designed, planned in the long term and long-term envisaged to achieve fundamental objectives, rationalise state administration, economic behaviour, accessibility to citizens and legal entities, and I particularly think that it is very important to adopt all necessary records. In this case, I am quite sure that the citizens of Croatia would be easier to exercise their rights, and we in the Assembly have made it easier to define whether the necessary funds in the state budget are new or smaller because we are fighting for it. Because of this exposure, and what counterpart Arlovic said, of course we will not support these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u48	Thank you very much. There's an earlier correction to an incorrect quote, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u49	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Inaccurate colleague Leko argues, saying on behalf of his club that, for the purposes of this reorganisation, "will spend significant funds". Here, this disputation, so the correction of an incorrect quote, I'm just going to back it up with a few facts. If these amendments and additions to several laws are proposed to remove several offices, some institutions, this in itself means that we will also save some funds. Of course, if we add to that a reduction in the number of ministries, that doesn't mean, by the logic of things, an increase in the resources we're going to spend, but a reduction. I'm going to say one more example in the end. If we just cancel the Air Management Directorate, one directorate, one plane. It's an annual directorate, and it was introduced during your government, about 12 million kunas. If we cancel that directorate, we'll save $12 million.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u50	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u51	I think it's still worth the old Rules of Procedure, still. My colleague Kosor herself said that she was correcting my opinion. That's not possible because... Yeah, yeah, 'cause I said I think this is going to cost, extra cost. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I still think because you don't have the arguments or tell me you won't. You have no arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u52	Please, the word was requested by a proposaling representative, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u53	Mr. President, distinguished counterpart Leko and fellow MP Arlovic presented some arguments that I believe should also be reasoned on. First of all, counterpart Arlovic said the number of administrative units is increasing, as 4 central ones are being introduced with the Office of Presidents of 5 offices. But it should also be said that today in Croatia we find a situation that has about 50 different offices, institutions, agencies and directors. 50-ac, maybe even more. We'll have a debate now and an exact number. A lot of these, it's one big-ass machine, it's got nothing to do with the Parliament and what we're talking about. And they were made, established by the government's decision. Therefore, a whole series of these institutions, directors, offices and agency 4 are names different, we will cancel. So, let's go, that's not what I was saying here tonight because it's not the topic of debate. So it's incorrect, Mr. Representative, to increase, to reduce the state administration, first at ministry level, and then to abolish a large number and these directorates, agencies, institutions and offices. And I'll say one more thing, a lot of these are established, and they still don't have either director or leader. So the question arises why and why it was necessary to introduce it. About the state we've received, many of you, these agencies, directors, seduces and offices have no leader. So, I didn't talk about it, there'd be a lot less of them. I can't say at this point how much, but it will be the government's mission in the government's district, of course, if any body has established a Parliament, that we will go with a proposal before the Parliament, in front of this House of Commons. But if any of the bodies were established by the government that we would change that by the government's decisions. Thus, out of those 50, it is certain that there will be much less. Thus, it proves that it is also serious rationalization. Secondly, I accept what Mr. Arlovic said, it is obviously a mistake, and here I thank you for warning us about it. The Deputy Minister, or, according to our proposal, the State Secretary at the Ministry, is not responding to the prime minister, but to the minister. That's what I thank you for, that's the word it's wrong. In the refined text, we'll make it right. And the third is, there won't be any new funds. There will definitely be no need for new funds because the ministries are being merged, and you know that you have made, or your government has decided on temporary financing in 3 months. Therefore, even if we felt that new funds were needed and if we went to propose it, it would be wrong, but we would do so in the new budget that we would make. And finally, Mr. Leco says that now he's here, we should, we should have taken a long and studio system, forgive the free interpretation, but about this is your, your point of view, that we've taken a long time and this is ad hoc. It's not ad hoc, I said in the opening statement that we talked about this for about six or seven months. I'm six months ago at eight. The Croatian Democratic Union Assembly in Cibona announced a radical reduction in the number of ministries in June. That's what we've been working on. We haven't talked much in public. So it's not ad hoc, and if we were to listen to you, it would have happened the other way because you were announcing it, and in four years, a little less than four years, you couldn't cut the number of ministries. You failed, I'm not going to state the reasons, I can assume them, and now we're going into it at the beginning, people expect it, the public expects it, it's what voters who gave us that mandate and you're now asking us to postpone it, to go back to infertile long debates and to be, and that who knows when we even adopt if we were able to adopt it.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u54	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u55	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. My judgment is that every government, i.e. The legal majority, at the beginning of its term of office, has the full legitimacy to establish a state administration according to its own right. It was also done by the third-month government, and then it went so far as to make certain ministries subordinate to the relationship, to the characters of individual coalition partners. That's probably how it is elsewhere. Accordingly, neither the administration of Mr. Sanader, nor her should be presupposed to reform the state administration again. This time, we see for ourselves, not accepting a model that ruled after January 3rd, but obviously not the one who ruled until January 3rd. I'll say it one more time, it's their legitimate right. The average citizen is likely to think that a reduction in the number of ministries will lead to a reduction in the costs of the administration, i.e. it will lead to its effectiveness. At first, however, I doubt that will happen. In fact, all the insufficient preparation of the reform, and I think this is the way it is, first time, the time to increase the costs of the administration, i.e. even less efficiency. When I talk about it, I mean some kind of public address to some union rep from Mr. Ihas and so on. Secondly, I'll add that just reducing the ministry does not mean reducing employees. However, they will all stay at work because otherwise we will have, under quotes, a revolution in the administration. The budget will continue to allocate the same funds for salaries, employees and so far, if not more and I claim that after this reform we will certainly have more officials in the country than we have at the moment. The final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the System of State Administration is evidence. By January 3rd, we had state secretaries, then we abolished them. We've got deputies now. Now we're removing the deputies and we're reintroducing the secretary of state, and by a few, most likely in each ministry. In my opinion, it's not about reducing the ministry but before the administration, but about that a little later. So a reduction in the number of ministries at least at first I'm afraid, the ministries well, at first there will be a measure without any great effect. However, it will increase costs, it can even block the trom, inefficient administration and there, with the assessment fully agreeing with the future prime minister. To be honest, I'd like the prime minister to succeed. Will do, we'll see. I'm afraid he's also going to have a third-month government syndrome that's cleaning up, say, an economy of insolvent and unsupervised companies over many has opened up bankruptcy, which actually helped the new government most, which is likely to be voted tomorrow because it's freed from a huge economic ballast. Also through state administration reform, especially if there is a greater reduction in employment, Mr. Sanader's government will help the future government most likely, which we will see. Or to be plastic, let's just take one example. Mrs. Antunovic has been retired since she became a defence minister, under allegations, for some 8,000 active military personnel. Did any of these people vote for Mrs Antunovic and the SDP? I doubt it. Mr. Lucin retired about 5,000 people. Did any of these people vote for SDP? But now that's another question. Secondly, will this reform lead to the efficiency of the administration? Maybe, but first of all, that reform is afraid to block the administration, it can block the Parliament and so on. We're going to have to align dozens, hundreds of laws with the new reality that's going to be a boring, but certainly expensive job. And third, and that's the point. This kind of reform, de facto, allows for human resources restitution. I'm not going to use the word cleanup, but personnel restitution because who's going to guarantee that, for example, some employee from the abolished Ministry of Defence or Tourism will get the same job he's had so far? Who will guarantee that after the Ministry of Social Care is integrated into three or I don't know, four new ministries each will keep the same job, the same salary and so on. And that, in my opinion, is the essence of this Law as expressed in Article 27. The law on the structure and the work of our ministries. That everyone will have the same, uh, job. I absolutely don't doubt that. They'll have it. But that everyone will have the same job they've had so far, the same salary I think is an illusion. Finally, due to labour disputes mainly from January 3rd, the country is on track to lose around 3 billion kunas of budget money. For example, many thousands of police officers are pushing some of their material rights into court, rather due to overtime or several thousand laid-offs from the Ministry of the Interior in 1990, 1991 and 1992, in working disputes, contesting these cancellations and on a good path to be compensated. I will repeat once again that it is estimated that the compensation for workers who have been illegally fired from certain public services and state institutions will cost about 3 billion kuna in the early 1990s. Whether the cost will be shown in the 2004 budget, such as for MIP staff in 2003, means this year, several hundred million kunas are shown through rebalancing and it remains to be seen. As far as the efficiency of the IDS administration is concerned, it is considered possible to get to the same level of radical decentralisation above all. What you're offering is simply utopia. Perhaps the new government is fortunate that the government will be one-sided, thus more operational, under quotes more obedient, but the administration will remain three because it is such, I think, a structure and such a way of thinking in the administration. It's back in '90. years, and we all know that here, the former congregation of the municipalities could influence who would be the judge, which was probably bad because it did not guarantee the independence of the judiciary, but it was better than what it did in the mid-1990s so-called '90s. Pasalic's commission, they could choose both the head of finance and the head of the cadastre and police chiefs, the national defences, and today they can't even influence the behaviour under the quotes of the queens. And this is not a normal state and this situation should be changed, not that people who have electoral legitimacy either that it is about mayors, mayors or mayors simply remain without any authority. I would even dare say that during HDZ it means by January 3rd when the mayors had such a administrative position was better than after January 3rd, but no matter what, without reforming local self-government in terms of finance, in terms of power, in terms of goods and Istria will not be, under quotes calmly or will be silenced because we are aware that the fastest progress we have experienced in the period from the '70s to the 1990s when the Republic of Croatia was most centralised. As far as the ministry is concerned, every government I say once again has a legitimate right to offer the structure it holds to bring it the most. The Adriatic counties, all on the list, are the opinions that should not be lifted or joined by the Ministry of Tourism in the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Development. Tourism, we will all agree to wear too much of the Republic of Croatia to marginalise it. Croatia's tourism depends too much on its revenues to be neglected. Croatia expects too much from tourism that this should be particularly stressed. Finally, more than $4 billion per year is coming from tourism, without which the country would be in huge trouble, which does not mean that the opportunities in the branch are ideal. Just look at how many state-owned hotel houses are operating positively, and then we'll be clear. Not one. The job of the Ministry of Tourism or the future Ministry of the Sea, Transport, Development of Tourism and so on should be towards us, and what does not stand in that, under quotes a description of the detour above all restructure those state houses, but thus I fear it will not deal with it and then you have a paradox that North Adriatic tourism i.e. Istrian business is the only one in Croatia with profits while the coastal if we exclude the Lošinj Adriatic as well as Dalmatian is in huge trouble. Secondly, the IDS will also submit an amendment to ensure that the tourism ministry stays absolutely. Secondly, we believe that it is a bold decision to reform the Ministry of Labour and Social Care in such a way, not to say "cut." I'm not saying that the proposed solutions don't exist in the world, although, even though if the government had a concept of what with the state, it would take over the existing ministries, appoint people and start working hard from day one. We're holding it so the state gets the most. This is how the government will deal with this reorganisation for the first few months, whether it will be 4.5 or not, and I'm afraid of the inevitable Hague. In the Nordic countries, the truth, with the greatest social rights, almost universal ones financed exclusively from taxes, not from contributions, health and social welfare are together and work and employment are singled out. The truth is that one Germany, Austria, is working together, hiring with social activities while their health care there is set aside. Obviously, Croatia follows a German and Austrian model which does not have to be bad, it is bad, that the Croatian gross social product before the capitage at this time is about 6 300 US dollars, Austria's around $30,000, and hence the citizens of the Republic of Croatia with 6 300 US dollars cannot have health, social, work or what standard such as average Austrians. It's for me not if we're going to have 15 or 19 ministries because it's going to be all... First-minute reform is aware of the savings of income that otherwise income from 4 or 5 ministers or 4 or 5 deputy ministers who will be replaced by a far higher number of state secretaries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, both drivers and secretaries of the outgoing ministers will remain in the administration, so that at the first minute, the number of employees will increase and will not be reduced. What's up with Austria when this stuff's on Wednesday? She has the Ministry of Social Security and... including health care and the Ministry of Economy and Labour. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We do these jobs now through three ministries but it still seems that the Austrian model is closest to the proposed law. We in the IDS look gently at this approach, I will say, but provided that Croatia is also modelled on Austria and decentralised. Because many domain jobs are in the exclusive jurisdiction of their landers, so we can compare with Austria only by the number of ministries, by the names of the ministries, but not by what the Austrian ministries are doing. But names, ministry numbers are not crucial to us. We are at risk of breaking up the Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare like I said three or four ministries. Finally, I will call it the Ministry of Ecology and Spatial Planning, which Mr. Kovacevic and Banac have so far led, the problem in space is huge but I would not even blame people but above all the system that is complex, absurd, isolated from the natural environment, which is the local self-government that it may be designed to conquer the kind of anarchy that we have where we literally don't know who drinks and who pays. So it's very good that this ministry is preserved, and if it's about the person who's proposed to run it, I think this job will do well. In all, the IDS would like the number of staff in the administration to be reduced by 10, 15 jobs as announced by the Prime Minister. We would like, as Mr. Sanader said just before at the HDZ Club, that the administration must not be red tape, or that it should be the service of the citizens to become one. But whether it will happen and when it remains to be seen. The IDS would like the administration to be as effective as possible, so-called. Out-of- budget funds and that's where we got along with Shucker, Mr. Shucker,... For roads and the like, they will be returned to the budget for such control and that the Croatian Privatisation Fund binds its decision to decisions of local self-government where certain companies have their seats, whether it is to launch bankruptcy, whether in their privatisation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of the 2956 companies that were privatised in the Republic of Croatia in the past 11, 12 years until 3 January, 2929 companies were privatised, after 3 January at exactly 36 and were said to have all been sold out all the time. Therefore, it would be convenient to see whether this intensity under the quotes of "privatisation" will continue and certainly be one of the more significant activities of the new government. All in all of this law, we can support it, but we will remain abstention. If we want to change in society, it's not enough to change these, let's call them chromium laws. That's not enough to change the head of the state, it takes changes in the base, and the base certainly isn't the ministries or ministers, the base is life, where it's going. And that's why you realize that the local self-government system needs to be redefined. What we keep at the IDS Club would be convenient if some ministries moved outside Zagreb, indeed, if they tried to run Croatia. The gross social product per capo at this time above the Republican average is only in the city of Zagreb and in the County of Istria. Only two counties have more inhabitants than they had, according to the 2001 census than they had in 19991. It is Zagreb with its surroundings and it is Istria. Not because of that demographic cut, but privately for moving in. Zagreb of the 400 largest companies in the 99th was the headquarters of about 120 today is about 200. And so perhaps one day you should really consider trying to dislocate some of those ministries in some other parts of Osijek, Rijeka or, say, Split. Finally, once again, I will say that it should not be a goal of reducing the ministries but exclusively of the administration but whether it will succeed, when, with what consequences it remains to be seen. But if the HDZ government succeeds in that, we congratulate her in advance.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u56	I'd like to thank Agent Damir Cain. Now he has a word on behalf of the HSP Club, first Dr. Slaven Letica, then Mr. Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the HSP Club shares confidence with the proposer of this law that the problems of modernisation, reform, state administration in every respect, the priority problems of this society and hopes and hopes that this reform project will succeed. In the old assembly, HSP himself proposed his own law as a club, which Pero Kovacevic will later speak of. Where this club has some objections, it concerns the urgency of passing this law, and for reasons that Mr. Arlović and Mr. Leko already spoke about, it means for formal business and constitutional reasons and even more essential reasons. It would be good if the prime minister, or prime minister for the government's composition, mentioned today that a project of state administration reform is being carried out on 7mm, 8mm. Introduce before this Parliament, making references. So what are the projects, who made them, when, domestic experts, foreign experts simply get those papers on their hands. I've worked in the United Nations for many years, and I have a great skepticism for the anonymous authors of major reformist projects because they have neither intellectual nor scientific and thank God nor material responsibility. I personally have a little anxiety, and I apologize for speaking for the first time in the Croatian Parliament and for sharing it with you. In fact, this morning I took the same oath as you all in which I made two public commitments that I would carry out my duties as a representative knowingly what our private, civil and possibly human matter is difficult to penetrate but what is far more serious is that we will carry out this job responsibly. I think we should discuss parliamentary or parliamentary responsibility in this House. I work at the Faculty of Medicine and it is very doctrinally clear what includes the pts of the axes and in relation to whom medical, medical, sisterly, clinical responsibility is defined. As Parliamentarians, we have the responsibility of mutually one to the rhumbs, we have responsibility to our electoral body, we have responsibility to those who stand behind this electoral body towards the citizens of Croatia. We have a responsibility to the Croatian state. And in that sense, I don't often want to be put in a position to act irresponsibly as we all behave today when we vote on these laws tomorrow. Based on the lack of information, we will make very important decisions. You should know that in the last 13 years almost every government has promised to reform the state administration, or spectacularly as it once did Hrvoje Sarinic, promising a reduction in the state's ranks of up to 30%. Or as declarative as the coalition government did, which had no intention of doing so. I think that somehow overcoming that anxiety could make this House commit the prime minister, or the future prime minister, that after the past four months, one evaluation text could be presented to the Parliament, about what was intended to be done, what was missed, to do. It's simple to adobe one feedback on what can be done here. As for the possible basis for this paper, I think the paper worked by the world bank called the economic growth strategy through European integration is good paper, and the days would have fallen gold off the face of the promoter that they even called for that paper. He was also translated into Croatian, most of you had that paper. And he supports the fundamental focus on which these three legislative proposals insist. The first is the reduction of the number of ministries, I am a little bothered by the fact that the mandater has too much to do with insufficient arguments because others have also said that the increase in the number of state offices, the institution can compensate essentially increase the number of civil apparatus. However, there are two further recommendations from the World Bank, the first is to change the policy management system and I think that, with the reform of the state administration, we should certainly think about the state policy management system. And finally just a few words about concrete suggestions. Some of them have done a comparative analysis for the transition countries and there are no major problems in the configuration of the proposed 14 ministries. In the area of large ministries, it means defence, foreign, domestic affairs and the judiciary is a Croatian specific instrument for the Ministry of European Integration. Although the bill of law, HSPan had that ministry. Personally, I think it is a good proposal and it appears in most countries that seek European integration. In the area of social policy or the social sector, it is convenient for culture to retain itself. Big problems will be my colleague Primorac with this mixed ministry of science, education and sports. He would suggest that he at least deprive him of some kind of trouble and that's sports. This problem can be solved by forming a state sports office according to the same logic of the state institutions. Or a state sports office. I would not like to talk about it in Croatia should destroy the hierarchical structure of the Olympic Committee, create a confederation of national sports alliances. Inside which the Olympic project would have an important but not a hierarchical highest place. And then you could do that. In any case, it would be a big favor to Minister Primorac himself. But it would be a big favor in the government. I think it's good to get the health care and social security back under one hat. What worries me terribly is this, otherwise, the Ministry of the Ministry and the Deputy Remier, which I have all the sympathy for as Stankec, is family, defenders and inter-generational solidarity. When the state takes responsibility for the family but some haystacks that area, I fear. And in the area of large economic ministries, Croatia should certainly retain a tradition of separate concern about work and employment, especially as HDZe as the majority of other parties in pre-election campaigns stressed unemployment as a key national problem. It is a great illusion that in one place the grouped entrepreneurs, investors, speculators, frauds, cablemen will manage to take care of unemployed people and employment. I've worked in that area for 10 years, and there's no positive experience. And it would finally be good for many reasons to keep tourism, and when it comes to the sea itself, it's a single idea that Shakespeare and I discussed in the 1990s. Very nice and emotional to me very important. But I think there's something you should do in that area by joining the Ministry of the Environment with the sea. Or in any case something a little change configuration. In any case, I personally want every success of the future prime minister. Especially with regard to this project. And I would ask that at least that minimum be accepted, that he submits a report on the theoretical bases of legal proposals. And after three or maybe six months, this Parliament gets feedback where it's headed, and where it's arrived. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u58	Thank you very much. Mr. Pero Kovacevic outside the HSP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u59	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I'm going to say only a matter of importance, which is escalated by Professor Letica. Namely, Croatia's starka rights wanted to solve the problem of forming a state administration, bringing state authorities and conflict of interest in one normal effective way. And that's why she was still in July proposing a pact of these laws. If this package of laws had been discussed, it would have been much easier for us today during the last assembly. Why do I say that? You'll hear from the show later. We are pleased to agree fully with the HDZ Club in our assessment of the state of our current state of administration. The current state administration is so inert and destructive that in the full sense of that word it has become a purpose to itself. In fact, the former government, or current government, was simply solving the front of the globe when any problem arose, it immediately established an individual office, a service agency and administration. So that's how you give a false impression of being overworked to do something, to solve something. And for us, bureaucracy was lush and lush. And let's just say the wrong example, said Mr. Caine, the D.A. fired the defender, received other people, so that's not what we're talking about. As the state of defenders, the prime minister said well. By just drawing attention to the fact that the Croatian party is the right to give its law on the rights of Croatian defenders who passed the first reading and normally that it will now be far easier to go for the final proposal. So it's important next. That our proposal, therefore, was based on what the prime minister was saying, we proposed 12 ministries. So 12 ministries, 8 state administrations, and the abolition of all government offices. In this section we agree if there are four of these central offices they should exist, but it is necessary to resolve the abolition of these other 18 offices of the Government. Because what was created in the rule of law, with us functioning, is that these government offices set up a parallel system of government to the ministries. So no one knew who was doing what they were supposed to do. So it's that famous part that no one is responsible for anything, and when something is good and smart, then everyone boasts. Everyone solves problems. We remember only questions about the case of that program from college to work, everyone boasted after that no one ever talked about it again. Now I'm just going to say the shortest difference. What's this so-called? 5 classical ministers, we differ in view of your proposal as we predicted there is no European Integration Ministry. It is also evident from your proposal that this is not the ministry in classical terms because in terms of terms and articles it means that the provisions for each stand are performed by administrative and other professional affairs while at the Ministry of European Integration it is working together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other things. Okay. If that part is to be done, there's no problem. But I think the biggest problem will be in the functioning of this ministry of the sea, tourism, transport and development. It's four important strong areas that Mr. Kalmeta is going to be hard to do, and I really admire him for taking that part. In fact, our proposal was better and more logical in that regard. We went to the Ministry of the Sea. We went to the Department of Construction, Transport and Telecommunications. We went to the Ministry of Space Planning and Environmental Protection. Why? Because we wanted to preserve what God gave us this beautiful land because it's always a problem if construction and spatial planning and environmental protection are in one. We know that from all the situations, building highways and everything else. And in that part, but I'm saying, we also support this will to go this way with what's always a problem with this way of deciding the urgency of the procedure to happen. It was our fundamental urgency that jurisdiction was clear and unequivocal to all ministries. And now, I'm just going to tell you, for example, that you have at the Ministry of Family and Defence - it bothers me that there are no Croatian defenders, why is it not called the Ministry of Family of Croatian Defence and Generations because the law says the Croatian defender. You have rank and promotion in rank, which is by law worthy of the rights of Croatian defenders abolished as well as honorary acts. Also, at the Ministry of Defence you have plans for other extraordinary opportunities, and this has also been abolished, these plans are no longer for other extraordinary circumstances. And also, for example, you have at the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry to deal with fishing, and there is our Ministry of the Sea. These are the problems when something is done in a hurry that is not our clear jurisdiction. And what does it matter that you may have forgotten about state administrations? One important thing that's happened to us both in the fires and in all the elemental accidents and other incidents. I think the time has matured for the establishment of a state directorate, a state administration. It can be called for a crisis situation like many countries outside, and it can be called for a system of protection and rescue. Let's just take this year's season when the fires broke down with the Croatian Adriatic. You didn't know who was drinking, who was paying. There's one part within the army. But I can't fly until the M.O.P. gives, so there's no money, so around the fire department. So that's the part I think we should go to urgently. So this has America, Russia, and many countries this one institute. And what else does it matter to say? I think there's been a mistake here, and that's the version of the Government Act. We agree with those four central offices. But what's forgotten about it? It's been forgotten about those 18 government offices. That's not clear to us. Do you intend to, because our proposal is, and this is how it turns out, the number of offices increases? So 18 existing plus 4. If that's what you're reducing, that's the part. Because first, we need to be clear about what many MPs have said before. The issue of state administration structure and the rationalisation from above must be resolved. And that's the best example of the ministries. Then I'll go deep. And that way we'll get a small, modern, resourceful state administration. And let us not forget the article 87. The law on the state administration system which few people in Croatia today apply, and it refers to the fact that the authorities of the state administration when they conduct an administrative procedure under official duty are obliged to obtain assurances, confirmations. So I don't have to stand to be reported here and here in the MUP, that I was born, that I'm married. It's that thing that an ordinary man asks the state administration to be for his purpose. And that's why we, in our bill of law, have proposed if a civil servant, means an official, does what the state asks him to do to resolve the administrative requirement within two months, measures must be taken. So it's a warning first. After that, he has no place in such a lovely service. Because we need to be aware that the state administration is also being financed from what taxpayers pay. So it's the right way, but we need this to be done, especially with the offices. And it's a shame to say, 70 to 80% of the proposals we agree that we're even this part, it might be even better connected to this part of the Ministry of the Sea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Kovacevic. At Mr Letica's presentation, there is a correction to Mrs Jadranka Kosor's incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u61	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I return my compliments to my fellow Flight and thank you for your support. But here's because he raised doubts in a certain way about the fear of the state, you were talking about that Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity that the state would take care of the family. I want to make it right in that sense that it would be something new. Namely, taking care of the family, the state's concern for the family is simply a constitutional category. The Constitution in Article 61 says, "The family is under special protection from the state." And in Article 62: "The State protects motherhood, children and youth and creates social, cultural, educational, material and other conditions that promote the right to a decent life, therefore family". So it's nothing new. The state's concern for the family is constitutional category. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u62	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of libre. Excuse me. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Representative of Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u63	Look, I didn't argue that it was a constitutional obligation. I just slowed down the thesis that it must be realized through a special ministry. That's not what the Constitution says.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u64	Honorable representative Jozo Radoš on behalf of LIBRE. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. There is no dispute that we have too many ministries in Croatia and there are still fewer disputes about having too many ministers, or members of the government. However, it is clear that the reduction of both sides should be approached, and this proposal by the HDZ Representatives Club is in fact trying to do what is certainly a matter to be welcomed. However, our problem is that as this often happens to secondary surface things, we give a very important fateful meaning and so in our society a picture has been created, and that is what Mr Sanader said that voters expect, citizens expect it to be something important in reducing the ministries by doing so. That's not true, of course. Of course, it would be best to get into that business completely. It is clear that this parliamentary majority that exists today and is likely to create a government tomorrow could not get fully into that problem, so then the problem is trying to solve it from the top. But I hope there will be enough insight into all this, will and knowledge that this issue is thoroughly resolved. And in that sense, we have on behalf of the Club of Libre and suggested some conclusions, that perhaps enough time should be given to the Government to really get into the system of reform of the charming administration. Because there is no point in saying that reducing the number of ministries can in itself mean anything, including savings. We will reduce here, therefore, the number of ministries or ministers from 19 to 14, i.e. the number of Deputy Prime Ministers we will reduce, and we will save just as much as the difference between the salaries of ministers and ministerial assistants who will have to act as the management of that part of the administration, that is, those sub-registries. But that savings from some 30 thousand kunas, which is actually a minor savings, and it doesn't have to be mentioned at all, we're actually going to lose because we're going to name in these big ministries, mega-secretaries of state who'll actually eat that 30 thousand kuna savings. Therefore, this is certainly not a relevant savings, but in this process I understand should have gone, such are expectations. It would be better, of course, if we had a situation that our public understood deeply what was really happening so that no one could play on these surface effects, but such an climate was really created in society, these were many political promises including the pre-election promises of today's parliamentary majority, therefore it is logical to move on with it. I don't think any of these solutions are possible and the priors can judge either positive or negative, they'll see what they bring. Unfortunately, it will always depend on what kind of team it will be, what the Prime Minister will be, what resolute ministers will be, but I think that in a few segments here, in fact, a major mistake has been made. I think there are several resolutions, several areas of state life management that are crucial, strategic and I think that when these resolutions, i.e. they will be sub-directors in this proposal, have joined together, that mistakes have been made, and that is the fundamental reason why Club LIBRAE will not support these proposals, and I will, of course, make it very clear which in my opinion, strategic directions for which more attention should be given, which means their governance and their coordination, policy formulation, and then policy coordination rises to the level of government, and not keep them at the level of ministries. If there's anything important, then these mistakes that can happen both because of the transparency process and because you have the opportunity to better reconcile interests, you'll do better if you raise it to the government level, that means if you keep the ministry. I absolutely believe that science and education are the future of this country. In one of these resors, reforms began very, after many years of wandering, harmonizing with the standards of Europe and the world, and in the other almost not having been for the last ten or 15 years, and about the one before we didn't talk, a serious reform procedure actually took place. And if these two segments on which the future of this country rests, which few will challenge, then it should have left them separate because it will be very difficult indeed to be a superman who will naturally have insight into both, professional insight, political experience and I don't know what is not yet needed in order to properly guide this portfolio and that man who will be at the head of this portfolio will be very difficult, and I fear that this merger of these two resolutions will put up with both science and education, and thus their strategic significance for the future of the Republic of Croatia. And that's the main reason why we're against this proposal. We have a few more of those suggestions, but they're not that weight. We find it very illogical to combine environmental protection and construction. The environment is our strategic, strategic resource, and if in the next five years or ten years we don't keep what we've got in the face of circumstances as pure or more or less preserved, we're going to destroy that resource, and we're going to bring together construction and environmental protection, and water management, which is another problem to leave to the Ministry of Agriculture, we're going to be in danger of coordinating conflicting interests that can be at the total damage of the state, government, etc. and it certainly is not good, especially because of that, and I stress that, which is water management, and water is the strategic potential, the future of this country, placed in the power of the Ministry of Agriculture, so that the question of whether the Ministry of Environment that it has to say and manages will actually be able to do what is necessary for the proper management of water, i.e. environmental protection in that sense. Of course, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport, Connections and Development is also problematic, because tourism is also our strategic branch, but it has of course more similarity and there is no such conflict of internal interests as in the case of environmental and construction protection, but certainly the man who is at the head of this resort will need a lot of intelligence, knowledge, experience, professional insight, political, political, political and wisdom that such mega-mind ministry leads in an appropriate manner and I think that because of tourism as a strategic branch that is being built, and it is once again related to a number of aspects and with environmental protection, it should not have been at this stage of our state administration to abolish the Ministry of Tourism. And, of course, I have to say very openly here that the number of ministries that one country will have is absolutely not dependent on its size. Any country that, every country that's a state more or less has the same needs. It depends more on tradition, more on the degree of state administration building in which when many strategic problems are solved it can connect something for efficiency, but when you're just building a state administration, and unfortunately we're doing it these years, then it's not good and in this process it's not good to go so fast. I agree, of course, with Mr. Proposer, Mr. Sanader, that after this, we should follow a deep, actual examination, and then attempt to change the state administration. In this regard, the Club of Representatives of the Libre proposed two conclusions. One conclusion is that within 90 days, it is enough time to propose a full programme of state administration reform. Such a programme exists in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the new government can look at it and change it according to its views, its preferences, but it is possible to present a quality document of this kind to the Croatian Parliament so that at the very beginning of the term of office, the issue will be considered seriously, and then it will really be seen whether we have the strength, whether we really want to get into this issue of state administration reform so that it truly, as it was said, will become a citizen service. Another conclusion regarding decentralisation, and there is no real reform, makes state administration as a service of citizens without decentralisation, that within six months, it is enough time, for the Croatian Parliament to present a strategy for decentralisation of the Republic of Croatia. If there is indeed a serious will and strength to deal with these problems, then these conclusions or similar conclusions will have to be realized. If not, unfortunately, we will remain only on the surface of the whole problem, which is therefore the mechanical reduction of ministries. This job, of course, was done very quickly so that there were a number of errors, there was a mechanical merger of ministries. So let's say the Ministry of Science and Education doesn't reflect the fact that a new law has been passed, so in this new law some things are completely different, so in this law, according to the new Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, there is no longer the concept of a national scientific research programme, and that concept is mentioned in this proposal, so there has been a mechanical integration, the adherence of these current resolutions, which, of course, is not good. It is equally pointless in paragraph 2 to talk about the organisation of higher education abroad because our Ministry of Science does not. It only seems from the level of the Ministry of Education, not the Ministry of Science. Thus, it is also shown that it was a mechanical merger. These are, of course, mistakes that aren't crucial, but we're under such circumstances that they're also making mistakes. And finally, several findings regarding the organization of government work. I think it's logical to form the Office of the Prime Minister, but I don't really understand how it's going to be done to do the most complicated, difficult job in the government, the most demanding job in the government is to coordinate the work of the ministries. What's now in the government's current functioning model has been resolved by over three co-ordinations run by the government's vice presidents, which I don't think is a good model. How, therefore, the most difficult job of the government, particularly the Prime Minister, is going to get rid of it, is absolutely unclear to me. If it's all meant to be in the Prime Minister's office, then it's not logical that the government's main sector of government action is just a secretary of state. It would be logical if it were to be a place of co-ordination of the overall government of inter-resor policy, to be at the Minister's least level. Because if the issue of the coordination of ministries and other segments of government institutions is not resolved properly then the government will not be able to be effective. So I absolutely don't understand how this level of office and this level of secretary of state at the head of the office is going to work, but of course it remains for the Proposer to deal with these problems. And it is clear from all that has been said here, that this proposal gives the Prime Minister more authority than it has ever been before. And in a way that he doesn't have a deputy, but he makes one of the vice presidents a deputy. It can only work if it's a unilateral government, more or less. If you have a government that has a significant coalition character, it's not possible. You will have to by law determine which deputy, such as in most governments in the world. It cannot depend on the will of the Prime Minister who will be the Deputy Prime Minister without being from his party, which is the case with us, which of them will replace him. This is not how it works, therefore, this model only works in more or less unilateral governments, and our government will be, with all due respect to the DC, which, for now, seems to me to be the only party that, with HDZ, will seem to be the government. This means that some next coalition government will face up to the fact that it will have to amend this law, which, of course, is not good. And I think it certainly needs to change what Mr. Arlovic mentioned, and Mr. Sanader made it look like a mistake. I don't think that, I don't know what the motionor's intensity was, of course, but in the past resolution of the deputy ministers, they were responding to the minister and the government. Not to the Prime Minister and of course that's not a bad solution. There must be a stable link between the Government and the Deputy Ministers and the State Secretarys, but it certainly would not be good for the State Secretary, or the Deputy Ministers only to respond, both to the Minister and to the Prime Minister, because wherever double responsibility can be avoided, it should be avoided. It is therefore more logical for the Minister and the Government to meet the formula that has been in the current legal, or current solution. That formulation, I think, is good. I think our problem is in general how to make a government an institution that will be effective, and that will also be a place where legitimate conflicts of interest of various resolutions will really be brought into line. If you're going to be able to do it in this model, it's hard to tell. I advocate a government where, of course, that dimension of coordination will be much stronger. I don't advocate the prominent power of the Prime Minister, but these are not crucial questions. Whether it will be able to work and whether it will be effective, of course, depends on the people who will participate in all this, but if you have a well systemically resolved issue of coordination and coordination, then you will have fewer daily problems at the level of the Minister and at the level of course of the Prime Minister, as well as the Deputy Prime Minister. But it's a question of taste, so to speak, of watching those who will take over this job and that is certainly not why Club Libre would be against this law. But we're not particularly, in a way we don't have any particular hopes for the good functioning of this model. I repeat, and here I will conclude, Club LIBRE will not be for these bill proposals because the resolutions for which, because of their strategic significance, we believe are at this stage of the development of our state administration, that it would be good if they remained independent. Of course, this does not mean that in a few years, in 5 or 10 years when some questions are solved, it is not logical to combine science and education. At this stage, we absolutely think that it is counterproductive to what these two resistors or sub-registries actually represent for the potential, development and future of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u66	I thank Mr. Jozi Radosh. Now it's the club of representatives of the HNS, the PGS. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u67	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The HNS Club, the PGS, will not support these three proposed laws because we appreciate that no, the proposals do not achieve what was said to the public as the basic objectives they want to achieve, but we will not vote against either. We will be restrained, simply because we do not want to prevent the government from reforming the state administration at the very beginning, as this set of laws has been explained to the public. We have not decided to even submit amendments to the proposed laws because we believe it is almost impossible for the amendments to affect the concept proposed, but in my debate, I will propose to the Proposer himself that his amendments make some obvious errors in the proposals and correct them. We believe that the aim of these laws, when translated into practice and obtained the final result, is not to reduce the state administration, but to reduce the number of ministers in the new government. Because, as has already been said, by establishing other state administrative bodies from the Office of Prime Ministers and others, the number of people who will be in the ranks of current ministers or deputy ministers will remain about the same. It is a pity that these important topics and proposals that could have come to this were not on the agenda later, when they would have discussed the content and competences and jobs that can objectively be merged into individual ministries, offices or seduced. So as a consequence of the debate on the possibility of a merger of certain responsibilities concluded which ministries or ministers no longer need. Namely, when the Croatian People's Party came out with its programme a year ago with its new public administration, then we have just begun to start from the content of jurisdiction and business with the means and agreed methods, to achieve such a goal, to achieve results, and that complete reform must be conducted in all segments at the same time, and not only in one part, as these laws suggest to start from the top, or from the ministers themselves. We are not against a smaller government and we support the proposal that it has a smaller cabinet, but we are against it, with the reason that only a reduction in the number of ministries will lead to a reduction in the overall state administration. In the light of all the three laws, it is written that the implementation of these laws does not require or does not require separate financial resources. I simply don't believe that it was thought that with an existing budget worth just a few more days or with a decision on temporary funding for the first three months next year, everything that is necessary to do in the first 30 or 60 days of the implementation of these laws will be financed. And whether these are sufficient regular resources that current ministry resolutions have cannot talk about because the Finance and Budget Committee has not given its opinion on this because we haven't normally sailed it yet. But the fact that more than 30,000 employees and tenants of these few days will need to make a checkout for health and pension insurance, check them out in the existing ministries and report them in new ones, that in all the ministries that connect or separate, they will need a bunch of paper if we want them to function immediately under this Act, it turns out that the costs will indeed be. Whether these costs or the funds for these, the coverage of these costs are indeed secured or will be provided will be seen when around 2.3 months later the Government reports effects. Today on the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure, someone said that shock therapy is being applied and that these are the reasons why it moves from the top to the bottom. In applying shock therapy, it is known that such therapy also affects the person to whom it is used, but also the person who is using it and who is implementing it. The second group of arguments was that the government wanted the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to ensure a fast, simple and effective state administration to the satisfaction of the citizens. However, a large part of the problems that citizens have in daily contact with the state administration is not the consequence of any of these laws, and whatever laws we bring together, and whatever the problem I'm about to tell them what it is we're not going to solve because it's the consequence of sublegal regulations, not the law. Although there is a regulation in Croatia that any body of the state administration that has certain data or a document on a citizen should not ask it to do so, even if there is a second body of state administration with that information or document. You are all witnesses that whenever children are enrolled in high school they must also bring a copy of the birth certificate and the housekeeper which is not described anywhere in the law but in the sublaws. Whatever you knock or open the door, next door or whatever state coat of arms you're looking for, and it's about the body of the state administration they're sure gonna send you to another state administration office to prove something you need and prove to someone else and prove it to them with some other paper. And it's always the consequence of sublegal regulations, regulations, instructions, orders that were made after certain laws were passed. That's why I'm saying this law won't solve that problem. If every citizen of Croatia in 5 years only once has to bring a copy of the birth certificate to someone else, and he had to bring it to him when he took out the most important document, so I once proved that I was born, alive and a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore I have a ID card, again from a child's allowance, the enrolment of children to school and to a part of health and social rights, again the same document. In 5 years only once if such paper must be taken by a Croatian citizen it is 4 and a half million copies, housewives and other certificates already available by the second body of the state administration. That is why I say the problem that citizens feel is not the result of the law and will not be resolved by laws or amendments. And specifically with these things about the proposed merger of the ministry. Working in economics and crafts, social care in health care. I do not believe that all those who are on welfare today are sick, so that they should be part of the Ministry of Health especially because in this system are both homes for older and powerless and all other forms of care for those who do not have family members or are entrusted to the state for care. When it comes to work, I must say that the Alliance of Independent Trade Unions of Croatia and Independent Croatian Trade Unions have responded clearly and said that they do not accept or disagree with... The model, and these mention them because the Prime Minister's candidate said that this approach would make social dialogue a better quality. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] If at first one of the social partners says he disagrees with such a proposal, it would be difficult for him to accept that social dialogue will be better quality. And it is true that Germany, Austria, Poland, Ireland and Sweden have the economy, entrepreneurship together, but they did not first bring these ministries together and then develop institutions and systems of work and economy rather than first develop systems and institutions and then bring the former ministries together into one, such as the Federal Labour Office, working social courts, especially under the Business Act, working councils with full powers, and when they refined it, they joined the work in the economy. Austria has, however, set up working chambers at that time as a mandatory membership of all workers where, by law, Austrian workers must be members of working chambers. So these examples of the condition may be correct, but they are not comparable in circumstances, conditions and time of generation. Article 9 of the Constitution and the activities of the ministry mentions the competence of such a new ministry, for example in the part of the economy that this portfolio coordinates activities relating to the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the World Trade Organisation, which is good, but in the field of work it is not written or written that attitudes are also in line for, establish the positions for representing Croatia in the international organisation of work which is equally important to the organisation of the United Nations, which Croatia has also been actively involved in the past, and I think it would be good for me to propose in Article 9 of the supplementation and the issue of the international organisation of work. Furthermore, state administrations in the counties that remain as state administrations or state administration bodies have so far had a lot of problems in coordinating and agreeing the government ministry. It will now be crucified between central state offices, state administration organisations, ministries and governments. If nothing has been changed in their content, and neither have these offices or administrative organisations that are established in any more detail, I think their problems will remain, conflicts will spread, or misunderstandings and misunderstandings will only deepen. In Article 21a of the Government Act, however, it speaks of the jurisdiction of the Central State Administration Office. Among other things, he's taking care of the state administration and local self-government. And somewhere in the area, or regional self-government is lost from the text of the law, so I think it would be a good idea if I were to put myself in my final bill. So, the forgotten regional or regional self-government. And I'm done with the next one. So far, the government has had ministers who chose deputy ministers and each minister could have one minister. Following a new proposal in each ministry instead of deputies, the secretary of state will be so that there can be more secretaries of state in one ministry. Ministerial assistants stay normal. No, I didn't mention it as evidence that we weren't going to reduce the number of people more importantly. But I'm asking if the secretary of state or whether the secretary of state can be members of the government. In fact, it is prescribed that in the absence of a minister, the minister himself determines which secretary of state replaces him. If the secretary of state is replacing the minister, that means he is also being replaced by the government and means he is practically a member of the government. Since the deputy minister has been elected by the government so far and they have replaced them, we will now be in a position for ministers to change the person chosen by a single man, and that is the minister himself and not more as a government. I think it may even happen that the secretary of state who was authorized by the minister, the authority of his fellow secretary who would replace him, would come to the meeting tomorrow of the government of people who will not be here to be trusted, to vote in confidence. About the other details, our proposals we have, as a club, the representatives will speak in an individual debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u68	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lesar. Now it's HSS Representatives' Club. Honorable representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u69	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We at the HSS Club hold that the legitimate right of every government, every prime minister, each majority to offer their own concept that it holds to be the best for the implementation of the programme offered to citizens. So also in the context of these three laws, two amendments and additions and one bill of law that regulates the cleavage, relationship and way of ruling the future government is about the concept it holds to be the best. We at HSS will not offer our own concept, we will offer it when we get an opportunity from the voters, to be able to do so. I think it is unquestionable that from the establishment of the Croatian state to this day, and in some ways in the debates, there is a lasting desire of every government but also a great interest of citizens to be referred within the state administration, within the administration of offices in a way that they are at the service of citizens. And this permanent gap and the opposition that arises between citizens and administration, better say bureaucracy is actually the subject of the interest of each government, and every government in the context of its own ways of viewing is trying to regulate these relations. In doing so, getting various instruments. I think it is quite true that even the best concept adopted will not be enough to convince us that within a year, this situation will be drastic or different, more quality and that citizens will feel it on their own skin. Of course, it doesn't give us the right, as some here have tried to say that all together should be watched from the aspect of apathy and that there is no room for the creation of that relationship that we all together advocate, which is the attitude of the citizen and the authority in which the government serves the citizens. We hold and we will always support all those projects and those goals that are reduced to the citizen. The issue of state administrations and the reconstruction proposed under this concept should absolutely be based on those needs that are visible and those that have gone through all these years on that level, which is equally unacceptable and which citizens show through the media daily, either through a conversation as a state that deserves the lowest assessment. It's a bureaucracy which is often very interesting and I've said it many times and during our ruling coalition, meaning until today or yesterday that this red tape is not a reflection of the government. She's so homogenized that it's simple, doesn't mean that every new government is dragging behind it and its bureaucracy. The bureaucracy has become another body of our overall government, so along with judicial, executive and legislative we have received another body that has a significant impact on life, on relations between citizens, which is bureaucracy. The fight against this bureaucracy is one of the fundamental requirements, as well as the postulates of the European Union as well as other institutions dealing with this. It is unquestionable that this bureaucracy generates the greatest evil and that is corruption. Corruption generates those relationships in society against which I am sure that each representative is, in particular, committed to preventing them, to take all those measures that are important and that they all need to support each other, because it swears and gives exactly that. Therefore, as I have said, it is legitimately the right of the promoter to propose that concept which he is convinced will be the best and will deliver results. If that's how it's gonna be, we'll all make sure together. The HSS has made it very clear that the government of the Republic of Croatia, the new government, is forming as soon as possible. To take responsibility, to take the responsibility to lead this country because it has received the support of Croatian citizens. Therefore, we will not give our own recipes, we will keep them to ourselves, and we will bring them out when we get the right of voters to implement our proposals and our recipes. What I want to say, however, is what we at the HSS Club think is important to highlight, certain reserves, certain proposals, certain messages that we believe are important for the overall functioning and new government, but also for those phenomena that I used to talk about, which are important for both the legislative spheres to be resolved and created, to give the executive authority the opportunity to deal with these negative phenomena. I think that almost no one in the nature of things, and even from the debate, did not dispute the right to reduce the number of ministries. In doing so, clearly thinking about all the positive changes that should be followed as a result of such a reduction. Because the reduction to reduce clearly is not enough. The reduction should be caused by a whole series of reorganisation processes that need to lead to efficiency, efficiency, which need to be cheapened by the state administration means giving citizens the right. We hold that it is possible to implement this, that the reduction of the ministries and this proposal of 14 ministries that is given, that the HSS proposes this proposal. He'd do something different. First of all, we think that the tourism ministry is not as one border activity as counterpart Cain used to say, I think that's the wrong approach. We have no doubt that even the proposer of this proposal highly ranks tourism and believes that it is the strategic commitment of the Republic of Croatia. Sadly, in our country and in our environment, it is always important to repeat what is clear. So it doesn't become true. And we think tourism deserves one such epithet, that it's not an activity it's a market. He's a possibility, he's an openness to everything he's got a chance to get into sold. Tourism is not the activity that counterpart Damir said is positive in Istria and is negative in Dalmatia. It's ugly and incorrect, he's positive everywhere. Tourism can't be negative, you can't have oil wells, and why won't you take it out of them and say it's negative. They're positive. Therefore, tourism is a strategic activity that deserves the greatest attention but also the greatest national interest, and it must be ranked exactly that way. I have no doubt that in the context of this positioning within the framework of the unification of these ministries, which give the truth to the will of certain stronger and stronger messages, which may be within the framework of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development and positively lean. But for the sake of that importance, and also for the fact that today's talk about Croatia is about tourist Croatia. Today it is not a destination for either Dubrovnik or Istria, today it is Croatia. Croatia has not only sea tourism, it also has continental th urism. It has all those resources that do not have to be pre-qualified as third grade tourist areas or such. It's a concept. The concept of tourism Croatia is the concept of the development of Croatia that will create uniformly conditions for diversity but diversity in the better. Not the difference in positioning the poorer, according to the tolma tourism is the most important strategically important branch and which we can, I said that it is doubtful whether we can call it branch, or market, and Croatia must be interested in it. That is why the HSS club proposes to consider a clearer positioning of tourism, a clearer positioning of tourism. without doubting the good intentions that he too will be properly represented in this way. We have also submitted a number of amendments which, first of all, are wanted in Article 9(1), I think of the Law on the formation and delineation of the ministries, in Article 9, where it is particularly important to say that it is likely that it has been left out of entrepreneurship zones, only free zones, free zones and entrepreneurial zones are entirely different zones. It is also held in Article 9, paragraph 3, that it is necessary to leave the cooperative activity in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the water economy. In addition, the whole series of novels changes, as well as the editorials relating to Article 11. And which, in nature, are actually contained in the obligations that have passed from previous laws, above all, the law on agriculture of the law on state support. The food law, the Wine Act, the strategy and so on, so that it would be far more quality to be contained and in this way for the clarity of certain concepts processed. Furthermore, it is necessary in Article 22 to ensure regulatory and harmonisation of relations with the European Union. DESCRIPTION of competences in the field of livestock and winemaking, freshwater and marine fisheries, forestry and hunting, forest seed, forest fruit material and remain in the resolution ministry. We believe that this is the way in which this technical intervention can better elaborate this concept proposed in terms of the new management mode. In this way, believing that these amendments and remarks can be coordinated and brought into line in that legal interest which is public and common, the HSS Club would support these three draft laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u70	Thank you very much, fellow Markov. That's why we've exhausted the club debate. We are going through an individual debate, which has been reported by the MPs. The first is a respected colleague, Vesna Škulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u71	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable Vice President, I must begin by saying that I am expressing my dissatisfaction with the new establishment of the ministries and state administrations of persons with disabilities from the current Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare and the State Department for the Protection of Family and Motherhood and Youth have been transferred to the section of the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Unfortunately, they will always visit the need for the social and medical care of this category of people. By abolishing the National Institute for the Protection of Family and Motherhood and Youth, which in its work in the field of work through the Special Needs Department relied on European documents and in collaboration with NGOs proposed documents which are not treated as a medical and social problem but as a problem of human rights. It seems to me that we are going back and forth in the European Year of Persons with Disabilities who in a certain way promote a new approach in this category of persons. A person with disabilities has at all levels of society, and from all ages of life and deserve to respect their rights of equal opportunities. So the ultimate role of the newly established ministry is in this category of people's lives. I think they're being put back under, let's say, the makeup of social care and health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u72	Thank you, dear colleague. It's my dear colleague Pavlic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u73	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, let me look back on these bill proposals. First of all, I'd like to support Mr. Radosh's discussion and presentation of the president of the club LIBRRE. all those observations, therefore, and the particular need for a clearer positioning of science, environmental protection and tourism and in the future composition of Valda. So what I'd like to say a little bit more in detail is about the stastus of the kala self-government, i.e. any future decentralisation. So we, too, went with the conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is in charge of proposing, within 6 months, a full proposal for a strategy for decentralisation of the Republic of Croatia with a specific focus on fiscal issues. The law for the proposed laws therefore states, where the affairs of the ministries in the Ministry of Finance are therefore to be described so as to develop a draft system of financing public needs and a unit of local administration and self-government. So that's what we need right now and what we all stand for. But if we don't have any deadline, it's just gonna be a parole, so nothing's gonna change, and we think it's really necessary. The current government has taken certain steps in this system and in the process of decentralisation so that certain financial resources have been put down with commitments to the counties and cities concerning education, health, social security in the last, time and fire department. For example. The Inter-Murine County is so just ahead of adoption because it adopted a budget somewhere over 80 million kuna. Until 2-3 years ago, that budget was 35 million kuna. And what's therefore a positive difference is that it's precisely those decentralised assets that were going back down to the base and were used for education, social, health and fire departments. Also in this past term, various concrete programmes were supported in our municipalities, cities and counties where concrete funds went, therefore, for concrete programmes. Also, in this way many funds have returned down. According to some estimates, only over these concrete projects have nearly a billion kuna been brought down into our cities, districts, and municipalities. I would particularly like to highlight the funds from the Ministry of Trade, a small enterprise for the formation of a small economy zone. It was a grant. These funds have launched the formation of the 188 small economy zones that have been very helpful or will help in the near future to address perhaps the biggest problems that are currently bothering us, which is the problem of unemployment. I hope so, and this way I appeal not to interrupt these programs, but to eventually strengthen and advance them. What concerns us in libri would also ask questions about local administrations and self - administrations. In particular, here is the Central State Administration Office, and there is no mention of local self-government. In the 99th year, the law established the State Directorate for State Administration and local self-government. In 2000, the Ministry of Justice, Administration and Local Self-Government was formed. In these materials, in these laws local administration is now explicitly not mentioned anywhere. We have the Department of Justice, so we have the Central Administration Office. This Central Administration Office is defined in Article 21b only in one sentence and it says: "The Central State Administration Office is performing administrative and professional tasks relating to the system and structure of the state administration and local self-government, the political electoral system". That's all. So that's not enough for us. We think that we should further define the central state office's obligations to local self-government. So more like a big system, a much-developed system that works the way it works. And what that system needs, and that's surveillance. It was precisely in previous laws where the work of the State Directorate was defined later, so the ministry was essentially the same. More detailed powers of the central office are given. Ministry. Thus, in Article 9 of the Law so far, the Ministry of Justice, Administration and Local Self-Government, among other things, oversees the work of the representative executive bodies of the local self-government unit. So far, it's simply not stated in the law anywhere, and I think that surveillance is absolutely necessary. It also mentions the obligation to organise and implement professional training and training of state administration staff and local self-government units. If, therefore, we want to reform our administration, so not only the state, but also the local self-government must include organization, implementation of professional training, etc. It was also provided for the law to determine the level playing field and to monitor the application of the wage system of employees in state administration bodies and local self-government. Disputes on the rights of counties, cities and municipalities and the Government of the Commission for the Borders of Units of Local Self-Government were also settled, and direct participation in the work of international bodies dealing with issues of administrative law, state administration and local self-government. That's why our fundamental observation is just going in that sense. So, uh... in reforming the administration that this reform must therefore be implemented at all levels from the highest to the lowest in order for it to be as effective as possible and we have said several times in the service of citizens. [[You don't understand.]] For now, there is no such thing in these laws. So there's been a reduction of those obligations. I just don't know which way it's going to go on then. So I would ask the legislators to study, look at these laws so far, and that Article 21b extends perhaps with these obligations that have been so far. That's it. So let me get this straight. Also, if these laws were proposed in this form, I cannot support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u74	Thank you, colleague Pavlic. It's my dear colleague Tonci Tadic's turn. Here's a colleague of Tadic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u75	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. My colleagues from the HSP Club who spoke on behalf of the club were first Letica and counterpart Kovacevic talking in principle about the formation of the government. I'd like to dedicate myself here to certain ministries. In the first instance, any termination, merger, suspension of certain ministries should be a reflection of the government's own programme, i.e. should be the result of considering the prime minister, i.e. the future prime minister, that only through such a form of government it is possible to implement a programme he intends to implement within four years, that is, that is, that is, the very structure of the ministries will help him. In other words, allow me a little cynicism, whether Croatia will have separate black metallurgy ministries and colored metals as once had by the Soviet Union, or whether it will connect to one ministry is really us if we know that behind that there is a thought-out program of government work and that the very structure of the ministries is the most suitable. In this light, this is also the design of the ministries, i.e. the creation of a new Ministry of Development, Transport, Sea, Tourism. I'm surprised there's not one more thing that's been added to that because it's actually created an amazing conglomerate. By good practice, de one of the HSP's initiatives, which is the establishment of the ministry must try to fit into a new model of the government, but not as a separate Ministry of the Sea, but as part of it, I guess as some agency within that ministry in some mega ministry that would unite both telecommunications, and roads, and railways, about the restoration of undeveloped areas, and the restoration of the war and all sea problems. According to our proposal on the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Sea should be the management and protection of flora and fauna and protection of the economic belt, protection of the sea from pollution from ships and all other forms of pollution, surveillance of seaports and surveillance of marine goods and the identification of its borders, so that there is still no cataster of maritime goods, safety and development of maritime transport and navigation, fishing at sea and mariculture, an island development strategy and coastal belt that, ladies and gentlemen, in Croatia, still does not exist. This country, despite having such a coast, still does not have a unique coastal and island development strategy. So, about this ministry of the sea, as the HSP imagined it, and proposed in its bill, it should be all that was in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs in the first Croatian government after the first elections in 90. But now there's been a mega-mind of the ministry where the sea just drowns. The current sea resorts are fragmented in the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the Ministry of Public Works, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Economy. In this proposal, it tries to unite, but I repeat, drowning in a broader context, from which it will not be possible in a good way to lead. Of course, we need to combine all these jobs and coordinate them, because it's the only way to take advantage of all the advantages that the Adriatic has given us. However, as things stand now, in the ministry of the sea along with all these others there will also be the restoration of houses and concessions for the Tuno-HT monopolies and the relationship to the "Adrija Society" and the spread of the Internet and privatisations in tourism and highways and excursions, but let's say there will be no sea fishing. In order for all of this to be run, counterpart Kalmeta should look like an old Croatian deity Svantevid with four faces, eight eyes and eight hands, and that is practically impossible, I think let's be realistic not. The Ministry of the Sea, otherwise exists in other European countries, I have made an effort and as a rule we have Greece, Ireland, Iceland, Norway, Denmark, so countries that are sea countries, there is a very clear emphasis on the Ministry of the Sea and the Ministry of Fisheries. Then we have Finland, France, Italy, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and Great Britain where this relationship to the sea is fragmented in two ministries, but with a very clear emphasis on the sea, because these are the maritime countries as well as Croatia. And finally, we have countries Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany and Turkey where this sea is not so prominent, but it is the countries under the Convention on the Law of the Sea that are in an unfavourable geographical position anyway. So what's this about? It is that whenever you have a country where the sea part, meaning the territorial sea, internal seawater, economic belt and coastal maritime goods along with islands, is larger than the rest of the land, then it is a land that puts emphasis on the sea, and ladies and gentlemen are just that in Croatia. We have this sea part bigger than land, and that's why we had to go to a separate Ministry of the Sea. Croatia in the Mediterranean swimming pool, despite the fact that it has only 3% of the Mediterranean sea, 1% of the population has 7% of the Mediterranean coast, and these are the parameters to be taken into account and treated in the same way by all other countries that are essentially maritime countries, because their sea part is far larger than the mainland, and therefore we are really surprised that this good HSP initiative on the establishment of the ministry of the sea here drowned in a far wider picture that will not be well managed, the sea part will not be well realized. Here, along the way, in a bunch of other commitments to this Svantevid, which will be the principle of the mega ministry, mentions the affairs of the Coast Guard. This is usually a really complex set of questions and we find it really strange to mention it in a flat-rate manner with the other 40 lines of text because it is a coast guard job or in the jurisdiction of the Navy if it is small countries such as Croatia or in the jurisdiction of special agencies. So all of these countries that I've listed here have been dealt with either through the Navy or through a special agency when it comes to the UK, and it's certainly not an agency that's subsidized by that one minister of the sea, but is always subsidized directly to the Prime Minister. I would also point out here what my colleagues said, a completely forgotten crisis centre that would have to exist is also our obligations for NATO integration. The government's relationship with independent regulatory authorities has been completely ignored, but it is equally completely forgotten that the Government is still current, it has adopted certain provisions in this period that should not have been passed in our court. Let's say we have a regulation supplementing the Law on Telecommunications "The People's News", number 177 from November 2003. This was adopted by the Government on 6 November 2003 and concerns a fundamental amendment to the Telecommunications Act which makes it impossible for the Telecommunications Council to call a concession for a new fixed telephone network. That regulation should be lifted by the mandater and by any other regulations which are against the law if they were in this period of time. I also note here that the part relating to agriculture is a completely forgotten international dimension, which is that the Ministry of Agriculture must participate in negotiations with the European Union and the WTO because one of the most significant and difficult parts of the negotiations are just negotiations on agriculture. Also forgotten here is the award of concessions for the use of drinking water, and HSP strongly opposes the fact that the concession for the use of drinking water is obtained by foreigners and ultimately I must point out that it is truly amazing that this session is not complemented by the Commission's proposal for conflict of interest, because we believe that this is also vital for reducing state costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u76	Thank you, dear colleague Tadic. There's a respected colleague, Vesna Pusic. Here's your esteemed colleague, Vice President of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u77	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I believe that in these three draft laws that are ahead of us, it is positive that the government decreases at the beginning of the term of office. You remember that we have had several discussions on the possibility of reducing the government, so the number of ministers and ministries, and on all these occasions I believe and today that the only time to reduce the number of ministries is the beginning of a mandate, that is, the moment in which the new government has not yet taken its place and the new ministers are not set up, because that is the period in which it can then begin with a single pure model. At the same time, no need to be fooled, no need to call it that and I don't think there's a need to pretend like that, a reduction in the number of ministries is not a reform of the state administration. Every country in the world, not every but many countries in the world, and a large number of European countries periodically reduces the number of ministries every ten years. In other words, based on various new projects, new moments that occurred over a period of 10 years have increased the number of ministries, the number of interests to be covered through the ministries has increased, sometimes resulting from a coalition government or different circumstances, and then, about 10 years later, the number of ministries decreases in half. That fact has nothing to do with reducing the state's apparatus. The state apparatus, under these circumstances, remains the same. Therefore, state secretaries, directors or depending on what state it is called and in which model of the institute, all remain in their seats, perform those functions that they perform, and therefore I am the apparatus, the officials in the apparatus, the people working there are the fact that the government's reduction, the reduction of the number of ministers does not change, do not reduce and do not intervene there at all. I'm saying that because it means that after this job that has taken the parliamentary majority here, to reduce the number of ministers. The other business remains intact, and it is an intervention in an expensive administration, i.e. in the state administration and reform of the state administration, is certainly another task ahead of us. What the government's configuration, or configuration, is about, therefore, what the ministry's facts are about, as they are called, and what areas they are targeted at, it maintains priorities and strategic commitment of the government. In other words, for reasons of identifying certain topics as important and crucial for the next term of office for this country, some ministries are being set up or are being reduced, merged or abolished by other ministries. And it is clear and obvious that in different periods, different topics will be viewed as priority and depending on which topics are viewed as priority, such ministries will be established, and there will be a greater emphasis on them. For this very reason, and it seems to me from the way the ministries are formed, that they are proposed here, to me it seems unacceptable in the first order that even in the name of no ministry mentions higher education. You know that we were all quite surprised by the fact that after the census that showed that we have 7.2% of people with higher education in Croatia, that on the other hand we have over 18% functionally illiterate. So, people without an elementary school, and that we have about 48% of people just with primary school or less education than that. That data, in my opinion, shows that we have two very different very serious, crucial problems. One is about science and higher education, therefore, the possibility of developing Croatia in the direction of a knowledge society, which in my opinion is an absolute strategic definition, the strategic interest of Croatia. I would say, not only the shape and model and direction of Croatia's development but also the economic development strategy of Croatia. And on the other hand, the problem is quite different which, of course, is the basis for the development of a knowledge society, but which requires quite different strategies, different knowledge, different instruments, different qualified people, and also different institutions, which is a broad, comprehensive, quality, general and secondary education programme. These are two very different tasks that require two very different strategies. In my opinion, this should also be the strategic commitment of Croatia in the next period, this should be a guideline for Croatia's development. The fact that, in this proposal of the Department of Departments, the Law on the Part-Corruption of Ministries, that, on the one hand, education in pre-school education, and on the other, education at the level of, say, doctoral studies, which is also an education, and if you remember those who were in the previous Parliament's meeting, and those who did not certainly see it in public. By law, the new Law on Science and Higher Education, we took the first important step towards the Bologna Process. So, in the direction of harmonising science, science system and higher education in Croatia with other European Union countries, which should ultimately lead us to, let's say, students studying at universities in Croatia can go back and continue to study anywhere else in Europe, in any other country that is also in the Bologna process, to return back and normally. That semester, he would count on them in their study and continue their studies normally. Many universities and universities have already begun the process. They are required to propose by the end of the next semester the system that is set out there in that law. If you remember, 3 years of undergraduate plus 2 master's plus three doctoral, or 4+1+3, depending on how anyone decides. However, in this area of science reform and higher education, we have already set out on a very demanding specialised path that will enable us to do what I think is important, and that is that even before we enter the European Union politically that some elements of regulation, life, civil society, we already have in Croatia at the level at which they are in the European Union. That is why I find it harmful and counterproductive, given the objectives that we have chosen to combine the Ministry of Science and Higher Education on one hand, that is, in this case science on the one hand, and education on the other and that we do not even have a mention of higher education as one of our strategic goals, where we should come to the level of Finland of 30%, and not 7.2% of people with high professional training. I wonder if this, this model of government and this fact of science and higher education means that higher education on the one hand and education on the other hand cease to be our strategic commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u78	Thank you very much, dear colleague Pusic. It's my dear fellow Stazic's turn. Here's my colleague, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u79	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. What should be the purpose of the 3 proposed laws? The declared purpose we have heard here from the Prime Minister is to reduce the state administration and make it more effective. And is that what these three proposed laws do? No, I don't. And why and how not? Well, just because I'm the number of ministries doesn't really mean anything, and because by reducing the number of ministries here, it doesn't reduce the number of entities. Why doesn't a reduction in the number of ministries mean anything? It simply mixes the cards inside one deck with the number of cards in the deck being constant. It is clear that if we attach 200 employees to a 300-strong ministry, we get one larger ministry with 500 employees. What'd we cut? Nothing. So there are no cuts at all. A reduction is just a story. To 14 ministries proposed, four central state offices and the Prime Minister's Office are added, and now these entities in the government have 196, exactly as much as they have been so far. It's a reduction. It's a reduction that's proposed. It is best seen in an example of the separation of the Central State Administration Office as it will be called, from the former Ministry of Justice and Administration. So we had one Department of Justice and Administration. Now we've singled out a portion of that ministry, half of that ministry so far, and we're going to declare that half of it a state office. And where's the reduction? There's no cut. The reduction is a naked story and deception. But this reduction, though unusually convenient for one kind of illustration, is because when we cut off one ministry or tear it apart on several ministries or tear it apart in several parts and distribute it to some other ministries, then it is a very convenient opportunity for the assistants, meaning the highest civil servants actually cancel and tell them: “Well, listen to your ministry being abolished, you don’t have as much as possible as possible to be an assistant here. We thank you for your services." But that's not the only reason I can't support these three proposed laws. I think this is so-called. A reduction in the state administration is just one cover to achieve something else. Namely, the mandater, explaining proposal 3. He never mentioned the law in a single word. He didn't say a single word about the State Secretary's institute. By accident? I doubt it. I doubt it. So far we have had this structure: Minister and his deputy, 1 minister, 1 deputy. A different structure is now being offered: Minister, Secretary of State, but not one, a few. Several secretary of state, and every secretary of state, it's nice to write in law, is written by a state official. So where's the reduction? Well, there's an increase in government officials, not a decrease. Instead of a deputy, we'll have a few State Secretarys. And central state offices will be run by the secretary of state. But not only that, but according to the amendments to Article 26. The government law also says that offices, agencies and directors, or others, will also be managed by state secretaries. So that's where the secretary of state is being introduced. The prime minister said that this government would abolish those 50, as many as there are offices, agencies, directorates. It certainly is not now because the Government is abolishing and setting up its regulation, but we can see from the proposal that these offices, directorates and, and, as agencies, as they are not already called, which we hear by the term of office are now being abolished, the secretary of state is now being led by them. The State Secretarys are being brought under the proposal of your law to the head of the office, the agencies and the directorates you intend to terminate. It's not you, it's them, the other ones. [[Not you, others.]] I don't know what other people are, those others aren't here. As for the double responsibility of the secretary of state, we've heard from the prime minister that it's a mistake. That it was a mistake and that the error would take place, said Prime Minister Sanader to correct it with a consolidated text. Yeah. This error can be corrected by the amendment, by the amendment of the Proposer. One amendment to the proposal came, but not to that, but to Article 13. Article 13 is replaced by the following: Nothing in this amendment speaks of the double responsibility of the Secretary of State on the one hand to the Prime Minister and, on the other hand, to the Minister. There's no amendment so far. We therefore have to put ourselves in the long line of those who should trust the prime minister on his promises to make it right. As the prime minister said, as you said in the consolidated text. You can't do that in a refined text. The consolidated text is produced by the Legislative Committee under the authority of this Parliament. In the case of amendments to the law, this cannot be corrected in a consolidated text. The only way to correct this is to amend the proposing or any other amendment that the applicant will accept or be adopted here. I'm saying there's no amendment, so I don't think that's going to make it right at all. But it is no doubt the right of every government to adapt itself to the system of state administration. The only thing we must have is a parliamentary majority, and when we vote these bills, we will have the opportunity to see if there is therefore a parliamentary majority mandate and who makes the parliamentary majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u80	Thank you, Mr. Stazic. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Bačić. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on, not understood]]
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u81	Madam Chairman, I am correcting Mr. Stazic in the section relating to the fact that with these proposals the law does not reduce the number of any ministries, any state administrative organisations. That's not true. Namely, there were 19 ministries and 10 state administrations before 29. This proposal reduces to 14 ministries, 5 state administrations and 5 central offices. So there are 5 smaller institutions with the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u82	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Dr. Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u83	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So I think you should react on behalf of the promoter to what Mr. Representative Stazic said earlier. It goes with one thesis that has already been said here tonight from the same club, which is that there is no reduction in the number or number of ministries, but ultimately by introducing central state offices that nothing is reduced. In other words, it's a hoax. I call on both you and everyone else to really be in a debate arguing with arguments in tolerance and other democratic standards as we have started this debate. To be and to look back at the arguments and answer the arguments. We reduce and reduce the number of ministries by 5 and the number of ministers by 6. Your government had 19 ministries and 20 ministers. You were talking about the Prime Minister's office. You brought him in, and even on that one, you put the minister's rank on the head of that office. This is now the office of the Prime Minister, Prime Minister Ivica Racan's Prime Minister, led by Mrs. Minister Gordan Sobol without portfolios. We also lower that level to the State Secretary level. So it's not true that we've introduced the president's office, but he already exists, which you've introduced, and you've even led him to the ministerial level. As far as the other offices, agencies, directors and offices are concerned, there are really 50, 50. That's where I checked. They were not founded in part only in the Parliament but were largely founded by the government. So they're not the subject of tonight's debate. I have already repeated this, and it is certain that in a large part we will either abolish them or redesign them more rationally, because we believe it is absolutely unnecessary for Croatia to have 50 letters and figures of 50 offices, directorships, institutions, agencies. I told you even at the end of your term you have a fact. Who is responsible for her, who is responsible for her I do not know, but at the end of the term you have the fact that for many of these offices you have introduced in this mandate there is still no man in charge. I can tell you later and the exact information in which you have no leaders in offices, agencies, directors and institutions. You don't have the principals. So, you were talking about a reduction, too. In the end, it was also a proposal, at least so within the government circles discussed a few months ago but you didn't have the obvious or the courage or the intercoal agreement, the inter-party agreement to go into it. And now the new government is moving into this project and you're saying it's not good, it's supposed to stay the way it is. Nothing that's new, nothing that goes on bravely won't run out of reaction, that's clear to us. But I'm not for it to remain a status quo, just because you didn't have the courage to go to such changes, go to a reduction in the number of ministries. To reduce the number of ministries. So, and one more thing, I said that the Deputy Minister was wrong, so I quote, the Deputy Secretary of State changes the secretary of state and remains in a description that fits exactly as it has been in the current law. So, it's a mistake to answer to the Prime Minister, as it stands in the current law, only the term "technicus" is changed, the deputy minister becomes secretary of state. Therefore, if necessary and it is likely that, not only in the consolidated text but also in the form of amendments, we will certainly do so, but I do not see any reason to re-open the topics that we have already made during the day, I cannot say anything to anyone, of course, but I said it was a mistake for the Deputy Secretary of State to become the Secretary of State who so far corresponds to the case which was answered by the Deputy Minister, nothing more and nothing less. So this is about a certain radical procedure in the state administration, in the state administration. And we said we'd start with a head to show both content and example that we want a smaller state administration, that we want a more effective state administration. And where to start than from the head? Well, we're not going to start with the community, so we're going to step down and suggest, make decisions, just as it is in the House or Government domain and towards lower levels. And I am convinced that this is a good way, that this is a good start, that the Croatian public and Croatian voters expect us to, expect the state administration, the bureaucracy not to be itself, but to be a service of peas, and I don't think there's any objection about it, that we all agree on that. And somewhere we have to start, best start with the government. Because I really don't see any reason why in Croatia, and I wouldn't agree with my colleague, Rados, who said that the number of residents doesn't matter in assessing the number of ministries or units of the state administration, it doesn't matter, of course. But it's funny that Croatia gives 4.5 million inhabitants 20 ministers and one Germany with 80 million 13 ministers. And surely we want to be more efficient and certain that this mega of the ministry too if we talk about the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development or about the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, yes, it will require a much greater effort from ministers but it will be under one roof and I am convinced that it will be much more effective than it has been in three ministries so far. Well, at least that's clear. If the German minister can also have an economy and work in his portfolio, why can't the Croatian minister do so? If the Austrian Minister of Economy and Labour can do so, why can't the Croatian Minister have it? Why do we think our ministers are more incompetent than others? Somewhere we have to start, I'm sure this is a good start. I know this is supported by most of the Croatian public because we are on this programme and we have won the election. And that's where we're going, and I'm asking for your support. Of course, I repeat every good proposal, every constructive objection, we will respect it in the form of an amendment to introduce it into the law, accept it, because we all care not for any, but for one good start with a smaller, much smaller and more effective state administration that should then go towards lower levels.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u84	I would like to thank Mr. Sanader on behalf of the motionary. The word is from Mr. Representative Dr. Nikola Ivanish.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. I'd like to get involved in the debate in these three amendments and the addition of the law. At the level of some of your personal thinking because everything your colleague said... On behalf of the club, we made a deal together. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First of all, I'd like to say something that may not have been said so far in the debate. And that is that this debate today actually looks like a good work to me to discuss the Croatian Democratic Community programme. And that program was at such a debate in the pre-election period and was evaluated in the elections and I think that actually the model that we do through the amendments and additions of these laws is actually wrong. I believe that, as a result, the Election Law and these laws should be given in three laws or in one Government Act, on the establishment and on the state administration should have a higher level, be at the level of constitutional laws and prescribe everything that is a quality technique, organisation, responsibility, realisation of the executive and parliamentary authority, the functioning of the executive authority, and that these laws should not actually be the content of the work of individual ministries and state administrations, but rather that the programme that passes in elections and gets legitimacy should, in fact, be determined within the framework of this general and principle law. Because, in fact, by discussing individual, the configuration of certain ministries we oppose Mr. Sanader's programme, we go with parts of our programme and therefore, in certain objective circumstances in which one who acquires legal conditions to form a government should do so, it might not even be necessary to be exposed to the debate again on the works of his programme and explaining and forced to explain it as many times as we do. However, I say the practice is such, I think that this mandate should consider that election legislation and government legislation and the establishment of the executive authority should be raised to a higher level of quality in this way and that we should actually take this necessary step forward for the future. And when this proposal is ahead of us, I'm going to say really exclusively at the level of some of my personal thinking in the end I am two mandates alone in this House, say very briefly. As a representative, I'm not too happy that it seems to me that a little bit of the law distances the terms of local and regional self-government disappears. There, I would suggest that either in the name of the ministries or of the state administration in Article 21c, along with local self-government, the regional self-government should also be added to the regional self-rule for reasons of harmonising and respecting what is the constitutional category and it is called regional and regional self-government. When it comes to the issue of this mega or mammoth ministry, I think it's quite clear that we probably have 50 different opinions on which to make any configuration of the ministry. Personally, I'm not happy that all 14 of us are not mentioned in the word "seafaring," I don't think it's mentioned, and I don't think that other than these emotional stories that we've been talking about, and what that means, I think that when it comes to executive power, the term "seafaring" is more significant because it's not only a resource but it's a concrete activity, living people, and, of course, I'd like to say, I'd like to say, in addition to that, I'd like to have the Ministry of Maritime Affairs as 150 or 200 years of power in this area, if we had it, of course, I'd like to have it based in Rijeka which is ultimately in one part of our history somewhere between 46th and 48th. I also think about the Ministry of Tourism but, of course, my opinion about the Ministry of Tourism is immediately related to the second thought I will say this only for discussion and for the record, I think it might be nice for Croatia to welcome the Ministry of Tourism one day and to be its headquarters in Dubrovnik for example. And also agriculture and forestry in Osijek. I don't think that we would be a less unique country, under these circumstances and I think that abismko contribute to the politic development of Croatia for which we all strive, I hope so and how. And just a few more words about the Ministry of Health and Social Services. Here they are in connection with the merger of health care and social care into a ministry of praise. I must say that it is my personal opinion that this is not what should lead to the necessary progress. I'll tell you why. I think one of the problems with the functioning of health care since 1990, and from the beginning of the health reform, was that we have never been able to find out over the years how much of the money collected from health contributions is spent on health care and how much on social care. I think that non-transparency of spending health money is a feature of the last 13 years and I think it will continue. As far as this resort is concerned, something that is now not a direct question to the government, which is something that the past government has done and that I think needs to come under the bat of the new government and the ministry. The question is whether our state-owned social security insurance provider will have its own giro account or whether it will continue to be in the Treasury and contribute and how to further non-transparent spending of health money. I think all these aspects would be worth at least thinking about, and that's why I'm expressing them in this debate. As for the ministry of science, education and sports, I would be a supporter of a different model even though I don't think this one necessarily has to be failed. The Ministry of Science and Higher Education on the one hand, and the Ministry of Education of Sports and Youth as some countries do have is also a model that could probably be effective. That's what I'm thinking about. With a return, but what I said at the beginning. I think the configuration of the government and the ministries is absolutely legitimately the right of one who has enough hands in parliament to exercise his executive power. And that's why they really want everything and the best for the government for successful work.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u86	I'd like to thank Agent Ivanish. It's Dr. Miljenko Doric's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u87	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Since time has really moved and more is said. I'm just going to draw up some elements that I think should still be asked to make certain concessions. For reasons it's hard here for a few hours to be angrily creative we've got on the benches of these materials and will surely steal mistakes regardless of which combination we choose or support. But it seems to me that we are on the right track, and I'm very glad that you and your colleague from LIBRE, and here's my colleague Ivanis, now and some earlier HSP colleagues, have warned some of the elements, let me just underline three details. Namely, this thesis about individual resistors being gathered under the same roof, I support it, it can be good. It is only a question of what needs to be found under which roof, so that this roof would not be clearly released, that it would be truly compatible, creative, and correct. As far as the justice departments are concerned, we see that we have now moved local and regional self-government, i.e. propose to move to the central state administration office. I really ask the promoter to croigate Article 21b, if nothing else, then at least introduce those two words, so mention the sub-divisional self-government because we know that today is Europe or European democracy is based on several pillars and certainly local and regional democracy is one of these pillars, or two such pillars. And most of what happened in Central Eastern Europe in terms of democratisation should be thanked primarily for decentralisation, and for transferring powers from central authorities to regional and local authorities. And that's why we have to be very careful here. A large part of what awaits us in the process of approaching the European Union concerns the administration of an local and regional self-government, so I am very sorry that here we are doing a further marginalisation of local and regional self-government by transferring this resolution to one of the central state offices. In addition, since the laws are passed by an emergency procedure, we are making another mistake. Croatia signed and then, in this Chamber, ratified the European Charter of Local Self-Court and, of course, it would be a minimum obligation for us to consult with the Alliance of Cities, with the county community, and that the dvideli have given and they are satisfied with the proposed vertical communication that awaits us tomorrow if we accept this. I also agree with those colleagues who spoke about the Ministry of Education and Sports. There were, however, several options that were proposed. I just have to say that in European countries in North America, economic development is normally based on the development of science and technology. This is where we leaned on sports and preschool education. Nowhere did we mention a unique European research space, a Bologna process. The autonomy of the university. Just look at the text in article 14 of the draft law on formation and the work of the ministry and state administration organisations, and you will see that it is so. And I would finally end up just mentioning that social welfare some were against others. These variants of social care definitely do not belong to health care, and it is completely illogical to be in the health ministry, when you have already decided to form a brand-new ministry for family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity. And read your text in article 16 of this bill then you will see that they speak there and care, over certain categories of citizens, it would be very good to find social care in that ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u88	I would like to thank Dr. I'll do it. It's up, sir. Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u89	Dear Madam Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Appreciate your time, I won't repeat what's already been said. In doing so, I must say that I share certain dilemmas about the entry of State Secretarys and the grouping to be in charge of certain ministries. In doing so, I absolutely support the tendency to reduce the number of ministries and to rationalise the state administration. However, I would say that if we were always in this country saying that the judiciary is a big problem, it seems to me that at least the same problem is the state administration. It is absolutely certain that the reduction in the number of ministers, and the reorganisation itself will not reform the state administration. Namely, the state administration is primarily the people of the new government of the amor, in any case, to work to make the members of the state administration specialise. To make their numbers smaller, but to be motivated, and to think about their pay, to be educated. And to be of service to the citizens, which unfortunately is not always the case. I also share certain attitudes regarding science and higher education. I can't say that I can express my fears to some specific fears, but I'm afraid that drowning of an important resistor will happen in a broader problem that I'm not holding good ones. On the bright side, I'm very happy that culture isn't drowned in a larger area. And I'm glad that an independent culture ministry survived. There is one large number of likely nomotechnical problems and problems of compliance with other regulations. Unfortunately, the speed of lawmaking and the short time we had probably prevent us from being specific in our remarks. I don't know if there's time for the Proposer to have any of what he heard installed or to go through the text one more time and remove any possible problems. I have personally submitted two amendments relating to Article 23(1) and paragraph 2 which I propose to remove problems related to the fact that state institutions are not as it has been related to certain ministers so far and that the problem of the adoption of sublaws may arise in those cases where specific laws indicate that the competent minister will adopt certain regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u90	I thank Mr. Josipovic. The word has a representative, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u91	Honorable vice president, esteemed ladies and gentlemen. The task is to make the state administration efficient, transparent, available, responsible and cheap. And I personally advocate that the state administration not only is the government much smaller, that it is more efficient, that its action and work be much more transparent and that it is much more accessible to the citizens. And I don't think anyone here today in the pay phone said anything against it. We may be just a little different in the way we do it and in the dynamics to do it. However, the precondition for this is not and cannot be the mechanical merger of the ministries and the apparent reduction of the number of state officials. The state administration will not be cheaper and more efficient if we bring together some ministries because according to that recipe, we can connect some other ministries, so we will have fewer ministries and certainly have a cheaper and more efficient state administration again. Citizens may expect to have fewer ministers. But before that, they expect the state administration to be exactly what I was talking about four goals. Such important laws certainly do not need to be passed and even less desirable by emergency procedure. Today, the speaker of the Assembly called for a consensus on important issues and laws. I'm asking the question. How is it possible to reach a consensus on three organic laws that we got on benches at 12 o'clock? And not only that, but we're told by secret that by midnight we have to discuss them, that we have to make amendments and that we have to vote them? How can it be studied in those 12 hours? How can consultation be achieved and carried out? How can they achieve within a party and inter-party alignment that one of the organic and therefore important laws for our country would be passed by consensus? And I am deeply convinced that the consensus was possible in this Assembly Hall because we are all for the same purpose, which is that we have a less and more efficient state administration. It seems to me that this is where the reform is actually a form, because the framework remains the same. The framework changes, and the content remains the same and that... The alignment possible within the government cannot possibly be an incentive to reduce the number of people sitting at the table for which the alignment is to be carried out. [[You don't understand.]] We have resolved the dilemma about the secretary of state as to who will appoint them and whom they will answer to. What we haven't solved, how many there will be. Because we haven't found out if there's going to be one of them as we've had one deputy minister so far, or if there's going to be more of them as it says in the bill. That's one thing. And two. State secretaries are now given powers at lower levels, so no more ministers, but state secretaries will appoint heads of state administration's office, and when we talk about this law, then this law does not apply only to the government, ministers, those, Mark's square or I don't know about the Cube down there. It refers to all state administration offices and all their facilities in all cities and municipalities. So, and it's not completely seen here. I'm glad we're even referring to other countries' experiences. But when we say that Germany has 13 ministries, then it should be said that it is the Federal Government of Germany, that Germany has 16 states, federal states, that each of these countries has its own ministries and that Germany and Austria, whose experience we call on is a highly decentralised state, that a huge number of powers have been transferred to lower levels of decision-making, so the units of local self-government and regional self-government, and that there is no need for some ministries to exist. Because it all works out where citizens expect it, and citizens know that the problem will not be solved in Mark's square, but will be resolved in the mayor's office, mayor or in the state administration's office, so on that last counter, the state administration office. I agree entirely with my colleague Sanader that Croatia is too small for such a large government. Croatia is too small for such a large number of local self-government units. But that's the problem, that it needs to be essentially defined and solved, not just cosmetics. Therefore, I advocate that Croatia is primarily decentralisation, that it be a decentralised state, that it be regionally developed and regionally defined with an extremely strong local self-government, and only after that central government is created with those central powers that each state should have. So it would make sense to me, and I think about that and the colleagues in LIBRE have suggested that the law be passed or that the project defines decentralisation in time and legal powers, and that is certainly not the process of one day, one year, so I think it takes the whole mandate. Otherwise, decentralisation has received exceptional results over the past period in those powers passed on to cities and counties in the areas of primary, secondary education, health and social care. I would personally advocate leaving the Ministry of crafts, small and medium-sized enterprises or in some way being singled out as a central state office because this ministry has produced significant results. And I'm afraid that drowning in one mega-ministration will happen before it was established, which is that it won't have enough importance and that it really won't be able to achieve all those goals that are highlighted in the HDZ programme, and what has already been largely done by this ministry in cooperation with local self-government units. For example, it seems illogical to me that the Ministry of Environmental Protection also includes construction because there is a conflict. Since the Ministry of Environmental Protection must worry and worry about the protection of those natural resources we have, on the other hand, investment in construction should now be dealt with here. So now I'm asking, for example, a question. How will it be evident when a request for the protection of the Drava River comes to her and not digging gravel from the river Drava trough, and that gravel on the other hand must be installed in apartments that they will build? And also, for example, it is illogical for me that the Water Administration belongs to the Ministry of Agriculture instead of being integrated into the Ministry of Environmental Protection so that it can protect that resource that is extremely endangered. According to plans we have somewhere 6 billion euros should be installed in environmental protection over the next 10 years. And indeed this ministry will be one of the important ministries. I have a serious dilemma about the Central State Administration Office, which is truly called the Central State Administration Office, and it's only there somewhere in the last sentence that local self-government is mentioned. I would suggest, if at all possible, it won't cost this country the price to set up a Central State Office for Local Self-Government to finally stop chasing the administration and local self-government once. These are two different and significantly different administrative institutions. So local self-government has its full autonomy, and the state administration is something that is a transfer, so state authorities to the lowest levels. And I think that would be a good move if we'd already wiped it all out there from the Justice Department. This is the most unfortunate solution to being called the central state administration office, which then includes local self-government. Finally, according to Article 27 of this Law, great uncertainty is introduced among employees, because there is a concern that some for the new government... and the government officials will simply not be assigned. [[You don't understand.]] On the one hand, we have a statement here that there will be no layoffs, and on the other hand we have a statement that 50 agencies will be most of them either abolished or that they will be incorporated into this. It would be good if we could hear from the applicants how many employees in the state administration will be fired in the following year and how many new people will be employed in the state administration during the next period and how much will be increased for salaries in the state budget for 2004. I therefore call on the motion that, in my view, it is wiser for the Government to be drawn up in the existing form according to the existing law, and then for ministers, and for the knowledge they will have after a certain time within six months, to propose to the Parliament a full text of the Law on State Administration Reform, that then the ministers who will be appointed be integrated, and until then we should conduct a scientific, professional and political debate on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u92	I would like to thank Mr. Mr. Lobster. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Dr. Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u93	Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, here I thank my colleague for the constructive debate, so I would just like to answer something that I think was already a topic tonight, that is, during the afternoon, and I think we are repeating it. I'm going to start with the Department of Environmental and Construction Protection who supposedly shouldn't, according to your proposal, be together in one portfolio. We should right now. The question was the key, our principle of approach. Are we going to let two ministries that have, say, conflicted or conflicted interests leave each other under quotes to beat each other or we're going to put them under one roof and then we're going to make a deal there? That was with all these mergers, I cited an example of economy and work. We can also do this example of yours. It's not illogical what we suggest. It is quite logical, and we think that we will save a lot of time and energy and bickering if we put two opposing ministries with interesting principles or aspects under one portfolio. It's a different approach than what you stand for. We can leave everything the same, but then we won't do anything. I also find it a constant contradiction that you're telling us that we didn't go in line with some of the other proposals in one comprehensive administration, the reorganisation of the state administration and the local government, so to the local level. We can't do it right now. We said we wanted to start with the head, and then over time, together with everyone else, we'll see what we can do. Too many units of local self-government and you said today that there are too many and some other people say they are too many, and at the same time you're taking up the same other people who say they're too many for decentralisation. I'm sorry, but I don't understand what he's in for... Just a minute. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It certainly has something to do with it. It certainly has something to do with it. Because decentralisation and the principle of subsidiarity are precisely within themselves in the philosophy of their approach and definition themselves, they have to decide down in the municipality whether they will be a municipality or not. It can't be decided by the central government and we can't because someone likes to cut the number from the current 400 and a few of the municipalities, to 150 as some suggest, and from your presentation tonight I see that you are for a significant reduction in the units of local self-government. What's decentralisation in then? How can we seek decentralisation, and we will impose on them from the top and tell your community cannot because you must connect with three municipalities into one. It doesn't go with each other. I believe that we municipalities have nothing to say, it's a real decentralisation, it's a real principle of subsidiarity. If one municipality can survive from its own budget and has enough resources to have its own budget, then by what logic will you tell them that they cannot be alone but that they must connect, while you preach decentralisation here. So what is decentralisation that we from Zagreb say, you can't be one municipality down there, but you have to connect five into one. It has nothing to do with decentralisation, it has nothing to do with democracy, it has nothing to do with subsidiarity. Therefore, you cannot speak at the same time. Let's cut 'cause there's too many units of local self-government, let's cut 'em down. Some experts say I already said 150, you didn't say that number, but you said it was too large and you said it was too small, while you're taking up decentralisation. It doesn't work with each other. And you finally told us that we could wait with this, and exactly the president of your party or I don't know if you're a party or a non-party representative, so I apologize for that ignorance, but I will check, but Mr Racan, the current prime minister and president of the SDP, has been looking for and throughout the entire time in several interviews, we have said that the government is forming as soon as possible and takes responsibility. So I'm gonna take this opportunity, and you're saying we're going to form a government now to the existing ministries, so wait six months to see what's best. So as long as we get lost in these infertile debates, we should now spend six months in the government and in the Parliament and in the public and in the Croatian society to discuss what is the best model of the new Croatian government. I'm not for it, and apparently not your party president because he called on the new ones who got, so the new elected parliamentary majority who got the elections to hurry up as soon as possible with taking responsibility for the country. And speaking of which, I would like to contribute one more contribution to the even greater standardisation of democratic entities in Croatia. It is not true that it must be immediately and even under the Croatian Constitution, under the Croatian Constitution, a government can be formed within a month of the President of the Republic's mandate, and if the government fails to form within a month then another period of 30 days can be requested. It's 60 days. We tried in 20 days and one of the reasons was because from your party they were coming, so from the current government there were demands to take responsibility as soon as possible not to be that empty walk, that so-called. ...the period during which decisions are made that are often not in line with democratic standards, so we will review that. So we went and we didn't go back on our noses, which is said, but we studied well and your proposal. In this preparation, we had a proposal from the Government to reduce the number of ministries and some others' proposals. So we've thought this through, and the proposals of some other companies of other countries, and we think this is a good start. He's certainly not perfect. We'll see how it works in practice, but... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u94	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Zoran Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u95	I'm from the SDP, I'll keep you posted. Racan said he called for the government to form and take responsibility as soon as possible, but did not say three laws should be amended. So you incorrectly said that Racan said three laws should be amended. You could take responsibility... /The speaker turned off, then replugged./... the central state office for local self-government, because precisely decentralisation and stronger local self-government will lead to the association of local self-government units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u96	Thank you. Dear representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u97	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. After this interesting controversy between fellow Sanader and his colleague Mršić, I would only say a few words about something that is personal to me, and judging by what the representatives of the various parties have said and in the pre-election campaign, it seems to me that it is most important to everyone, it is about young people. In fact, if I can agree with the idea that it is necessary to reduce, rationalise the state administration, something more difficult to agree with the idea that individual ministries and state administrations, the organisation of mechanical mergers, should this result in the abolition of some organisations, which ultimately leads to some resolutions being simply eliminated. And that's what happened to us, conditionally speaking, to the youth resort because they just fell out. So far, in the current organization of state administration, young people are engaged in the Department of Youth at the State Institute for the Protection of Family, Motherhood and Youth who, according to this new reorganisation, are associated with the Ministry of Defence and form the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, and in itself, there would be no problem, but if they carefully read all these 3 laws, the young are mentioned in exactly 3 places. For the first time in the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports, the quote says: “Protection and promotion heals youth”, then in the same ministry, “in part training youth to acquire technical knowledge”, and in the already mentioned Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity that it says will deal with studying and exploring modern family and youth problems. It's the only three places where young people are mentioned, and I don't think it's right anyway. This problem of absence, conditionally said, of young people is becoming much more complex if we remember and if we know that in October 2002, the Croatian Parliament, by consensus of all parties, means unanimously, adopted a national programme of action for young people where absolutely all of us here in the Croatian Assembly from HDZ and HSP to us here SDP and all others agreed on this programme, where we have set a series of measures that have already resulted in a series of good measures, for example for young entrepreneurs and beginners with 2% interest and starting up to two years. Then, for example, tax exemptions of 5% tax, real estate tax if the first real estate is purchased. Or, for example, something that may be less known but important in this work that deals with young people, it is networking and connecting youth associations that are very intensely discussing these days and discussing that they are... form... [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] prove that you need to be about young people systematically... [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] I'd like to ask you not to turn off my microphone. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much. On the other hand, by unanimously adopting a national programme, we have defined ourselves strategically towards young people, to develop an afrimatic policy, to develop a policy that expands potentials and opportunities contrary to seeing young people through the prism of protection, special protection, prevention, and I don't know what else. And that brings me back to those quotes from the beginning where we young people are mentioned again only in some context of protection, prevention, drugs, criminal behavior, etc. Which I don't think was the will of unanimity, I repeat, of all parties here in the Croatian Parliament. In fact, this is also the problem because, speaking on behalf of the promoter, it is mentioned, speaking of this system of mergers, of rounding up, that if certain things are done in many different places, and not under one roof, that they will all deal with everyone, that they will ultimately do nothing. It's justifiable for my exposure, so we'll all be dealing with the young. And at the Ministry of Economy, we will do young people, both at the Ministry of Health, and at the Ministry of Education, and then it is contradictory of what the proposings have already said here, that someone really needs to be dealt with systematically. On the other hand, the motions highlighted the constitutional provision that the state particularly protects and takes special care of family, motherhood and youth. And indeed, if we look around these ministries there's a part about family, there's a part about children, there's a part about motherhood. But not a single dictionary about young people. The correction, however, is mentioned that research will be done on modern youth problems. Therefore, given this all I have said, I would ask the Proposer, if he is already proposing a resort to the sea, if he proposes an environment resort, if he proposes a defence portfolio, if he proposes for all these other things, European integrations that could be so very justified then be put into foreign affairs, but are important, that it is also amended offices, not someone in particular must be in the ministries or in part, but in the part of a ministry of an existing office, a particular part that will deal with young people. To not really do what you tried to stop, to keep everyone busy, to keep everyone from doing anything without doing anything in the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u98	Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u99	Thank you very much. I, Mr. President, would correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Lugaric when she said in her debate, among other things, that the young had fallen out of these amendments and the addition of the law, i.e. the new formation of the ministries. However, I would then like to paraphrasise, saying, no, the young have fallen in because this new ministry that we are predicting to form which family would deal with is above all, facing young people. There is, but of course we're thinking of a completely different and family approach, so in the broadest sense, including care, let's say, about homes for carefree children, etc. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But if this turn towards young people is very honest, here will show the belief of tomorrow's debate on the proposed ministers, where, for example, the minister of science and education and sports is an extremely young man. The Minister for European Integration, too, is a young woman. So here's one of the indicators of our turn towards young people. I believe you'll soon see to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u100	Thank you. Dear Representative Miroslav Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u101	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen. If these 3 laws, i.e. amendments and additions to the law, were on the agenda already at the first session of the Croatian Parliament, allow me to comment with two words, logically and unequivocally. Logically, the strong and determined moves of smart politicians are being drawn at the beginning of the mandate while their popularity is the greatest, and it is certainly certain that a certain reorganization or reconstruction of the government and the detour... is among the strong and determined moves. [[You don't understand.]] Therefore, it is perfectly normal, logical and unequivocal to go into the reconstruction of government and ministries, but what I would like to comment on with a few sentences is actually the content of the move. I have already spoken here in the Croatian Parliament on several occasions about the fact that we Croats are prone to innovation and the introduction of actually some solutions that are always some of the established, taken over solutions from democratic states or non-democratic in the past and that we are then correcting them. We repair and actually innovate in one way only to ourselves. For example, not so long ago, in socialism, everyone had socialism in Europe in the world of socialism, and we didn't have that usually socialism, but we took socialism, so we innovated it, recasted it, and created some self-government socialism, that is, how we, as the creators then called it socialism with a human character. So, it wasn't just any other guy, it was a human character. So somewhere at the beginning of the political life of the Croatian state and we introduced a system into a political system which is also more known in the world as a presidential system than a small exception or, small, one exception let's say in Europe, France that had a semi-presidential system, but this French half-presidential system we also took over but not again in the way it worked in France but we re-innovated it, fixed it and so on. So then after that came the changes in 2000, the famous changes that this semi-presidential system translated into a semi-parliamentary system. The floor, so the whole world has a parliamentary system again, and we haven't had a parliamentary system and for the past four years we've had a semi-parliamentary, sort of, sort of completely, completely vague. I'll fix it up a little bit again. I'm afraid there's something going on again, unfortunately, the same thing, which is that now we're trying to turn this semi-parliamentary system into a semi-cancellary system. I personally disagree, and I will always stand up for the clean system. Let it be parliamentary, let it be office, let it be presidential, but please be as the whole world has, Europe and what we understand. To some solutions, for example, in this final draft of the Law on Amendments to the Government Act, we return to 1998, so let's say Article 3 actually states that the formulation is exactly back to that formulation that was in the Government Act 1998. Nothing changes here but just returns to 1998. Similarly, Article 6 which is a clean return to 1998 and then, but Article 21f) introduces something that is characteristic of office systems or presidential systems in the United States, which is this institution's government adviser. Special government advisor. So that's what I was talking about when I said that we're constantly trying to fix, rewrite, innovate to unrecognizable. Personally, I have nothing against it, however, and it was one of our proposals and our proposal, or one of our proposals was the establishment of certain state offices, in this case four state offices are proposed. However, I really need to ask some suggestions that I don't understand. I don't understand which state secretary would be in charge of these state offices? Do they respond, especially if I understand correctly what the motionor has adopted that they are not directly responsible to the Prime Minister, so if they are not members of the Government and under the Constitution, Article 108 of the Constitution, they cannot be members of the Government because in Article 108. The constitution says exactly who are members of the government. If I am to quote, please allow this article 108 says: “The Government of the Republic of Croatia is made up of the President, one or more Vice-Presidents and ministers”. End. Indeed, in the Government Act, it really does say something that is in my court, and I was also talking about it when this amendment and the addition of the Government Act was passed, I was then saying that this article 2 that was being rewritten by that amendment and by supplementing it four years ago was introduced by one newspaper that wrote in the Government Act that made up the President, Vice President, Ministers and other members of it. But then I did, and then I said that it was from a constitutional and legal point of view quite questionable, and I was hoping that it would also be changed in the Government Act. Instead, something else but good happened. I still don't know who the State Secretary would answer to if they weren't members of the Government, and if they are members of the Government, then I suppose they're going under those other, other, other members of the Government. For example, if we were to answer to the ministers, then I don't know which ministers? Because here, this proposal doesn't state it. Who, for example, would the secretary of state be responsible for the management office? To whom, which minister would the State Secretary of the Office for I Croatia be responsible? Otherwise, I have to mention here, allow for a little dyspression. This term I Croatia does not seem too well chosen for the reason why we, can be interpreted as having virtual Croatia, someone who exists only on the Internet or, uh, on websites. In any case, I would recommend that it is still called the Central State Information Office, not for I Croatia, like, something similar to what there is now a government office that has not done anything in the past 4 years except that it has been formed, and that, even deeply, I hope that this central state office will at least have its own website because the one that was in the last meeting, last term of government was formed, but had no website, did not exist. He was so effective. Let me just have two more words, as far as the State Administration System Act is concerned, I wouldn't speak much here. Indeed, these are some solutions that are more non-technical and technical, but I would, but I would ask that, regardless of all these changes that are here and can be supported in principle, a little more attention should be paid to how, in fact, this state administration will work, and not how, what kind of system it will be because, for example, in Article 87, it said: “The resolution in administrative matters must not require parties to obtain assurances about the facts in the process, about the facts of which the authorities of the state administration are led by official eyewitnesses. Such assurances must be made by official duty’. So we all know together that no matter what it says in this Law whenever you had to take out any document or any belief from any, any government, body or any other body, then you always had to pay for it and even more of those beliefs some other state offices from the administration would tell you that they shouldn't be older than six months and so on, or two months or months, so you had rows I don't know how. But that's the letter of the law. But if you don't respect that letter of the law, then you can reorganize whatever you want. And finally, as far as the formation of the departments and state administration organisations in our proposal is concerned, it was something different, which we gave before the end of the last term. I'll just mention that I really don't see the right reason and I would recommend, I would recommend to the promoter that if they've already brought together the Ministry of Science and Education to add up the Ministry of Culture. I don't see the real reason why it should remain separate, and science and education join together. And I am indeed reviewing this strategy that the motioner has decided to bring together opposing, opposing and competent jobs into one ministry so that I can say figuratively beating under the same roof, not conflicting ministries. I view it as one, as one, one commitment strategically but I don't consider it good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u102	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Luka Bebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u103	... which established that the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not contain a clear provision to which the Central State Office is responsible. [[Specially enabled.]] According to Article 5(a) and Article 21a, the work of the central state offices referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be managed by the State Secretary appointed by the Government on the proposal of the Prime Minister who shall correspond to the Prime Minister for his work. So it was precisely determined that they were responding to the Prime Minister, not to anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u104	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u105	I apologize to my colleague Bebić, be kind, so in this case, you have not corrected my incorrect claim, or I have misunderstood that on behalf of the promoter, Mr Sanader has actually given up such a solution that the State Secretary responds directly to the Prime Minister. ... No, that's not what I'm talking about. I'm only talking about state offices. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Of course. And now my colleague, Bebic, has said that he remains in article 21 so that those in the state office respond to the Prime Minister. I'm sorry, then I got it all wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u106	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u107	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I think it is necessary to appreciate the mandater's efforts to try to reduce the number of ministries but also to appreciate the criticisms that occur here, dilemmas and different thinking. I think that if we narrow it down to the comprehensible language of the underlying dilemma, the basic dilemma that is for ordinary people remains whether these changes will lead to citizens achieving their rights faster. It's a basic dilemma. This was about whether or not it might be about reducing the number of ministries but not reducing the state administration. Will the creation of massive ministries, the accumulation, will the accumulation lead to trombones? Will it actually come to the fact that citizens will find it harder to exercise their rights, I think of them as "banal" rights, which were already referred to as "will citizens get their ID card faster?" Whether citizens will be given a construction permit faster, a copy from some geodetic administration, etc. It seems to me that the point of reducing the administration against which no one smart has anything to do with it would be to say hello if it works out. But will this kind of proposed change lead to citizens achieving their rights more quickly and efficiently? Will that be cheaper for a citizen? Therefore, the goal cannot in itself be to reduce the number of ministries but to increase efficiency, reduce prices, cost prices, etc. Getting those documents that ordinary citizens need. I don't think you can see it, that you can't see it to the end, or you can't see the evidence for that. And it seems to me that that's where the underlying dilemmas come from and there's no question of intent. The intention is not questionable. However, I think the intention should be welcomed, that we should say hello. It is only about whether we are achieving this goal in front of all of us, both before the government and before this Parliament, before the Parliament, in front of the Croatian Parliament. There's something else I'd like to do. It seems to me like a basic dilemma and that there was not enough conviction, that there was not enough persuasion and that therefore comes from the opposition lines to, to a kind of criticism that does not go on the very idea, to the very sense of trying, etc., to reduce the administration but to prove that it is, that this way really leads to it. Because that... is one threat to reduce efficiency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And Mr. Sanader is from the sea and many of us are from the sea, so besides Croatia is a Mediterranean country, we are all somehow from the sea, I think. And there was a lot of mention of the sea here. You can take what side you're looking at, but really, I think it's the advantage of Croatia there's no one against it. And it's good for me to mention the sea, and let's have it in our ministries and you wouldn't mind if this government didn't get some others to be the Ministry of Split, Rijeka or I don't know where. But the question remains, the question remains whether the Ministry of Tourism should disappear in view of everything tourism means to us and whether that ministry that it will deal with, here, I read at random what it says in this material with technical equipment, installation, telecommunications, radio, communication, the adoption of sublegal regulations, concessions, the provision of services in public telecommunications, broadcasting and distribution of radio and TV programs, etc. Is that where you talk about tourism? I mean, it could be, it could be. But consider that there may be doubt that if we enter into one... I'm asking you to get used to letting others talk. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And that's a big brain. So, uh... No matter how much he thinks it's the other way around. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean otherwise I'm going to ask... The speaker went off and turned it back on. Mr. President, can I talk to the outside after they won't let me speak? Here, you see here you can't shut me down. ... And he won't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This morning he solemnly promised he wouldn't, I believe he wouldn't. But I appeal to him to teach some to let others speak even when they disagree with them. So that's one dilemma. The dilemma is whether tourism is going to put itself in danger and we know what it means to us. Otherwise I wouldn't be long, I'm glad I can welcome you all out of here together at this first session. I'm here in the third term, some of you are in the first, here's a fellow clap, I'm glad you're clapping. And I'd just end up saying, as far as science is concerned, it might be dangerous for the Ministry of Science to disappear as a special ministry. We have often referred here to Ireland, Portugal, and I don't know what countries, which have succeeded within a very short period of time, first of all, by investing in science. It seems to me that the prime minister should also consider how useful it is for this ministry to disappear as a special ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u108	I would like to thank the esteemed representative, Marin Jurjevic. A list of registered speakers in an individual debate has been exhausted. We still have two clubs that have five minutes. Now it would be Mr. Representative William Herman's turn. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of libre. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u109	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, in this brief presentation a few notes may be about what I think the biggest question in my fellow Sanader's proposal is decentralisation. Croatia has a problem with excessive centralisation, legal provisions in the position of the government are less the same. It is precisely they who define the grizzling, the centralization is read, if you want to determine the government's responsibilities and responsibilities, so that the delirious business is indeed huge. More specifically, these jobs can't be run, let alone follow until they're executed without a central state administration. And about measuring the final results without a central state rating not to speak. And he was able to ask two questions. How state money is collected, and which, by the second question, the same money is distributed. And so it could or should be that we have to open a debate about decentralisation, although fiscality, about the Croatian regions, and as far as I'm concerned, be in the debate about Slavonia and Osijek. The collection and distribution of money must be brought down under allegations, to local self-government. This is the case with regard to central government bodies, such as the case. In education, they just have to give it away. The process has also started in several, can be continued through the abolition of ministries or some ministries, but not in such a way as to change the cards. Changes in titles and the amount of résumés for administration or bureaucracy remain simply the same. The rationalisation of red tape or in a better case of administration is when the same job is done with less employees. And that's alphabetical order. This could also be assumed by the motive of the bill when proposing a reduction in the number of ministries or simply a smaller government. And then, of course, there's the question again, the money or the distribution of money. The same number of people for a smaller number of ministries, as long as the money distribution is kept stubborn from the level of the central administration, will not mean rationalisation, whether we have 14 with some other titles of the ministries, or 20 ministries. It's just a little game. And so Croatia moj's conclusion remains simply too centralized. Because the light is on, the Club Libre is ready to be stubborn but not because it's rude, just ask once again the promoter who's here and, of course, listens carefully. For the second time, let us suggest the same conclusion with modest hopes that he will not be heard but also seriously consider it. It is therefore up to the government of the Republic of Croatia to propose, within 6 months, a full proposal for the strategy and centralization of the Republic of Croatia, with a specific reference to fiscal issues. We think it may be an important contribution to what constitutes a complete operation in this sensitive area. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, very much, and very much, very much, very much, very
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u110	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative, William Herman. On behalf of the HSPa club, respected representative Miroslav Rožic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, at first I would like to suggest to the motionary something that I have not arrived in this ten-minute debate. And that would be a suggestion that when the government law is changed, then at this time, when we are changing the government law to one amendment and Article 5. The government law. Which in their proposal they didn't touch. And who is actually talking about this fact that today we do not have 17 deputies, who are former ministers, who are still ministers but who have had to put their mandates at rest because Article 5 has not been solved when and how ministers are resolved. And when and how the government is diluted. This was decided in the 98th proposal to appoint and resolve the president of the state. So when we change it in the second amendment of 2001, this article 5 was changed so that it was known when they appeared but forgotten clearly and perhaps not deliberately put on when their mandate ended and who resolved them and when. Well, since we're already changing when we're in the process of amending the government law, then it would be good for that thing to be resolved, so today we wouldn't be missing 17 MPs, but we'd probably be in full formation at least an estimating session of the Parliament. Billie in the morning. This can be very easily solved because it can be applied to the same solution that was in 98th now I don't know which system you're going to decide whether to semiparliamentary or semi-cancellary. So I don't know who's gonna be the one who's gonna name and resolve. But whatever decision you've decided you'd do well to have that solution. That's one thing we at the club would suggest. And just for the end of the day, this proposal contains a particular proposal on the work of the ministries containing a whole series of solutions that we have also proposed in our proposal at the end of the last term. So it would be one of the elements that might make us support that law. On the other hand, we do not agree with the merger of materially conflicted jobs in the same ministry because we think it is a poor choice of strategy. We do not agree with the introduction of some institutions that are not characteristic of clean systems, especially for the clean parliamentary system. As is the issue of a special advisor. But all together when we add up on subtracting so it doesn't turn out that the club HSPa today all against what is proposed in this Croatian Parliament. We will be restrained around these laws in such a holiday pre-Blessed mood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u112	I would like to thank Mr. Representative Rožić. Please, Dr. Ivo Sanader, on behalf of the proposer for final consideration of these three draft laws. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u113	Thank you, Mr. President, first of all, I would like to thank all the representatives for the constructive debate and for the fact that we have really in a good atmosphere and one atmosphere of mutual tolerance discussed today about very important laws of law that significantly alter the start and character of the new government. I'm going to refer to my colleague, William Herman, right away. Both the conclusions proposed by the club of representatives of LIBRE are acceptable to us. First of all, I want to say that the conclusion that applies is the only question if we can do it within the time limit this club proposes. But when it comes to a full programme of state administration reform, which will contain reductions in the administrative aprarat. High professionalisation and improvement of availability, i.e. the reduction of the duration of administrative procedures, t o is the goal of all of us and we want to work on it. And we take it as a commitment. That's what's going to happen in the government program. We simply want the entire state administration at all levels, not only to reduce the duration of administrative procedures, but also to significantly reduce the number of permits someone needs, the number of solutions they need. We're even thinking about it, which is why we can't say at this very moment whether we can accept how you formulated your conclusion. But we even think about making for entrepreneurs, and then even for other layers of society the agency modeled by what other countries already have - Ireland, and others in... means if someone wants to open the company to come to one place, to those basic papers, and then the issue of that agency to solve all other problems, to allow them not to have to run from one counter to the other, that they may not have to pay a bribe to get to some permit, that they do not have to wait for one permit, so that only it would be conditioned to get another, but to do it all by the agency for him. I think it's in the spirit of what the Libre Club is proposing. It remains one of our obligations. The deadline that you have proposed here in the conclusion at this point cannot be estimated whether it is real. As is the issue of further decentralisation of Croatia and fiscal problems. So, all these suggestions that you've made, we're going to study them carefully, and we're sure to take them because they're part of our program. I also thank those colleagues who have proposed not to merge or merge. A fellow representative of the SDP is either a fellow Ivanis, and I was suggested that tourism enter higher education and science, education and sport to enter and tourism, to enter, pardon and culture. Others suggested that he should never enter. So there are different views, different solutions. We are committed to this because we deeply believe that they are good. We've been working on that proposal for months. We have engaged, consulted different experts, competed with other related countries larger, but also related, similar to the number of inhabitants and by the surface, and we have come to this conclusion - time will show if this is good. I'm deeply convinced it is. And I am importantly convinced that, or we believe that it is important how the ministers behave, how they will function, and not how many sub-registries someone has said they have in their portfolio. Because until today there were ministries with two or three sub-registries, so it didn't matter how many sub-directors there are, but how well the minister works. Therefore, I thank everyone for the debate. We will ask for a break to consider these amendments and proposals at the club and to determine ourselves against them, and after the break we will present our position that the amendments we accept, which we can accept and which we do not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-1.u114	I thank Mr. Sanader. In order to prepare the applicants for the amendments and proposals submitted, I shall set a recess by 21 hours. Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the session. First, we have a statement by the Proposer on amendments to these three draft laws. The first is the proposal for a law on amending and supplementing the government law. There was submitted an amendment by the HDZ Representatives' Club, the promoter, which becomes an integral part of the final draft law. This Bill proposal, as well as all these remaining 2, requires a majority of the votes of all MPs, so at least 77 votes in favour of, pursuant to Article 226. Rules of Procedure. I therefore put to the vote of the Proposal, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Government Act with an amendment adopted. Who's up for this bill? Thank you very much. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you very much. I note that with 88 votes for, 16 against and 16 abstentions, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia was adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted.
