ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-0.u1	Honored ladies and gentlemen. It has been my honor to open the first Constitutional session of the 5th convocation of the Croatian Parliament in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, and I am temporarily chairing it until the President's election. I warmly welcome you all and congratulate the elected MPs on the election of representatives to the Croatian Parliament. I particularly welcome the President of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Stjepan Mesic Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Ivica Racan and present vice presidents and members of the Government. [[Applause]] Mr. Ivo Sanader's Prime Minister. [[Applause]] So far, the vice-president of the Croatian Parliament and the first president of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Zarko Domjan. [[Applause]] I welcome the present party leaders present in the Croatian Assembly who are not representatives. [[Applause]] I welcome the President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Peter Klaric. President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia Mr. Ivica Crnić and the present representatives of the judicial authority. [[Applause]] I welcome the model Cardinal Msgr. [[Applause]] Josip Bozanić, archbishop of Zagreb and the president of the Croatian Bishop's Conference. Highly-aware Jovan Pavlovic, the Orthodox Metropolitan of the eparchy of Zagreb-Ljubljanska and the whole of Italy. [[Applause]] Mufti Ševka efendi Omerbasic, president of the Meshihat Islamic Community in the Republic of Croatia. [[Applause]] Mr. Ognjen Krauss, president of the Jewish community. [[Applause]] Mr. Kotel Da-Don's chief rabbi for the Republic of Croatia. [[Applause]] Mr Branko Beric, representative of the Evangelist Church in the Republic of Croatia. [[Applause]] I also welcome Mr. Antu Klaric's attorney-in-law. [[Applause]] I welcome the main state auditor, Mrs. Simu Krasic. [[Applause]] Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia of the General Assembly, Josip Lucic. [[Applause]] I welcome the president of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts of Academymen Ivo Padovan. [[Applause]] I also welcome the ladies and gentlemen of the Rectors of the Croatian universities. [[Applause]] I warmly welcome the diplomatic assembly in the Republic of Croatia, based in Zagreb. [[Applause]] I welcome the mayor of Zagreb and Mr. Mayor of Croatian County all present representatives of economic cultural, sports and public institutions and other present guests at the session. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen in the centuries-old struggle for the survival of Croats in these areas for a state-of-the-art idea, and as soon as the creation of an independent Croatia, many Croats and other citizens of the Republic of Croatia gave their lives. [[Applause]] I invite you to gather a few moments in peace to honor all those who have given their lives to the Homeland. - A moment of silence - - May eternal glory and thanks to them – Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of his powers, the President of the Republic of Croatia announced on 20 October 2003 the elections for representatives in the Croatian Parliament, held on 22, 23 and 30 November this year. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia informed the State Election Commission on 6 December 2003 that the conditions had been met for the publication of election results for representatives in the Croatian Parliament. And the State Election Commission, on 8 December 2003, announced the official election results for representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The President of the Republic of Croatia shall, on the basis of Article 97(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia called the Croatian Parliament for the first session. I would like to inform you that according to the State Election Commission report of 8 December 2003, 152 MPs were elected to the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, allow me just a few sentences on this occasion of establishing the Croatian Assembly in its 5th Assembly. After gaining independence from the Republic of Croatia. Incidentally or not, the symbolic term of holding today's constitutive session is identical to that of 13 years ago when the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was adopted on 22 December 1990. The often called Christmas Constitution has witnessed to its people the legitimacy and legality of its citizens in the pursuit of an independent state based on the highest values of modern democracies. Today, 13 years later, its fundamental values remained unchanged, despite a series of changes to the constitutions caused by changes in the country's social, democratic, political and economic circumstances, which are in transition. I believe that today we begin again as in January 2000, a process of peaceful and civilized change and surrendering power to the will of Croatian citizens expressed in the past parliamentary elections. I also believe that this assembly of parliaments in its term of office will improve the level of dialogue and tolerance, remove the gaps and shortcomings present in the work of the previous call. I am expressing hope that we will successfully look for new Croatian policy uprisings that will move us in thinking and actions from those topics of the past that prevent us from being objective and productive in seeing and creating the future of a successful Croatia. This successful Croatia's future requires a high-priority consensus, which is painfully generating all political options on the most important national and state issues. They are related in the minds of our people to the sense of justice, faith and security and objectivity of the legal system, and the quality of life in their families, which there is no job or social justice. That is why I believe this assembly of Parliament will devote its engagement specifically to improving the functioning of the rule of law, the development of an economy based on economic policy, which allows for a higher standard and dignity of man's life. As proof of the coherence of relations with the world, we are successful in working towards Croatia's acceptance into the European Union and NATO alliance. We can prove our loyalty to people's expectations and responsibility to national and state interests with serious and conscious work. As president of the Croatian Parliament in the previous meeting, I believe that by regulating relations in this House and by dealing with other aspects of the state government, we will succeed and in practice implement the Constitution of the prescribed function of this House as a representative body of citizens - I would add - the highest national representation and holder of the legislative authority in the Republic of Croatia. Once again to all of you again or to newly elected people's representatives, sincere congratulations on the election and best wishes for successful work on responsible duties. To all of you fellow MPs and distinguished guests as well as our viewers and listeners who follow us through electronic media, I wish a happy and blessed Christmas and a successful New Year. Thank you very much. I'd like to inform you that according to the records submitted to the session so far, there are 127 MPs present. [[Applause.]] For the Croatian Parliament to be established, in accordance with Article 73 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 4. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, with the presence of most MPs, should be joined by the election of President of the Parliament. Article 5 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have been established that the right to submit proposals at a constitutional session to elect the president of the Croatian Parliament have club representatives. On the basis of Article 5(5), The Rules of Procedure of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community submitted a proposal to elect the president of the Croatian Parliament. Does the representative of the counseling club want to explain the proposal? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'll read the proposal I got from the HDZ rep club. On the basis of Article 5(3), The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, submits a proposal to elect a representative for the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vladimir Seks. - I apologize for this failure. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. I'm closing the debate. Before the vote, I'm asking a question. Are there other proposals for President-in-Office's election? Thank you very much. There isn't. Before we vote, I would like to inform you that the election of the President of the Croatian Parliament requires most of the votes of the present representatives. I repeat again. There are 127 MPs at the session. I am voting on the proposal of the HDZ Representatives Club to elect Mr Vladimir Seks as president of the Croatian Parliament. Of course, only the MPs vote. Who's in? A little patience, please. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's being held back? Thank you, everyone. I find that the proposal has been accepted by most votes - 114 votes in favour and 13 against. I declare Mr. Vladimir Seks elected president of the Croatian Parliament. I declare that on the basis of the decision of the President of the Republic of Croatia on the meeting of the Croatian Parliament at the 1st session of the established number of present representatives and the election of the President of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament was established. [[Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, I invite you to honor our country. I sincerely congratulate Mr. Vladimir Seks on his election, and I invite him to address those present, and after that, to take up office at the chair table and continue to chair the session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-0.u2	Mr. Chairman, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests. I want to thank you most sincerely for this choice, the trust you have shown me by choosing me as president of the most democratic institution in our country at this time is double binding. It commits due to the importance of further strengthening democratic values, but also commits because of the need for today's goals and interests of the Croatian state and Croatian society to be achieved through democratic processes. I want to assure you that the high duty you have entrusted me with will always be responsible for taking care of the care and obligation of the Croatian Parliament as it has always been in history a guarantee of the achievement of the highest national and state interests, above all freedom and justice. Modern international conditions and changed nature of the modern world only further underline the importance of such a role of the Croatian Parliament, strengthening democracy is our inevitable bond with the world, our map of equality and measures of our political and civilization achievements. But democracy is at the same time our conversation with ourselves, the measures of our national interests and our support in dialogue with the world. I believe that strengthening democracy in Croatia is our common motto. I look forward to participating in this together, to cooperate in the demanding work ahead of us and to work in the democratic harmony of all political commitment. I thank you especially for the fact that the votes for my election came from all sides of the assembly, various political colors and commitment. That is exactly what he is looking forward and binding, which is precisely what confirms that Croatian parliamentism is entering a new stage and that it is probably the biggest gain of recent elections. The elections confirmed that citizens want political maturity, scale and responsibility, that they want the people's representatives who will be managed by the interests of the country and the voice of the people, who will not be easily left to self-loathing and banality, divisions, who will always take care in a democratic debate to win the best argument – Croatia's interest. That is why I would especially like to welcome the new representatives of the Croatian Parliament personally as one of the veterans of this assembly, I sincerely invite you to be proud of your duty and be aware of its fulfillment. Ladies and gentlemen, we have difficult tasks and great challenges ahead of us. The time has come for demanding legislative work. The internal reforms ahead will require a tireless legislative procedure. I am convinced that we will always bear in mind that the ultimate goal is to adopt the laws of the best for Croatia. In relations with the world, this House will also face new challenges. I dare even say that there is a time before us when, in fact, the future and fate of Croatia will be measured and determined by the events in this assembly. Earth's at a crossroads. It stands on the threshold of full opening to the European Union, at the reach of this political and symbolic sign that we are capable and mature to achieve the historical and contemporary aspirations of Croatian peoples and citizens of Croatia. At the same time, the country is still under pressure due to insufficiently clear and uncontested views of the general future picture of this part of Europe and the gap in the view of the enlargement process of European integration, and this expected step will find its political and legal form in the various decisions and documents discussed by this House and on which you will decide. And that is why this meeting of the Croatian Parliament faces historical responsibilities. I am convinced that we will keep that responsibility in mind in our daily work. That when it comes to needing a moment, we will know how to overcome pettyness and show political breadth. I am saying this because instead of in this place, as a place of parliamentary decision should be not a mechanical voter with little independence, but not a polemic club with little efficiency and in this is the real meaning of this convocation of the Croatian Parliament. Of parliamentaryism which, due to special historical circumstances, has been a transporter of one political will without sufficient openness to other opinions through parliamentaryism, which, in other circumstances, has shown more inconsistencies of political will than has sought a common result, here we are at the threshold of real independent and responsible parliamentaryism. I believe that this is a historic step for Croatia and I believe that we are all aware of the responsibilities that imposes on each and every one of us. It's also another additional message of the last election. The citizens want responsible, independent and conscious MPs. Citizens have voted in favour of changes and want parliamentary procedures to enable them to be implemented. Because of this consensus, there is an increasingly important concept for me. Due to the external challenges I have identified and the need to return to Croatia the political peace and overcome the divisions that are holding us back, I believe in a parliamentary consensus that will not only reflect party discipline but also measures of national and political responsibility of MPs. I also believe in the atmosphere of political tolerance and dialogue with mutual respect. This High House should reflect and lead a high degree of spiritual progress in the country. Croatia needs to regain faith in itself, new energy should give the country new dynamics. The Croatian Parliament plays a leading role in this. The elections confirmed the citizens' commitment to consolidation of system institutions and to implement reforms that will ensure economic growth. These are, in my court, two fundamental requirements for citizens, a regulated state and a reliable economy. The achievement of both these objectives will require a comprehensive legislative procedure. The increase in employment remains only a political parole, unless new labour legislation, new laws on the tax system, new laws on savings and foreign investment, new laws and regulations on financial supervision, anti-corruption law, new public administration, the interconnection of the related legislative activity ahead of us, the regulation of the entire state system should be in the role of the main strategic interests of the state at this stage of development. There is also a continuation of the harmonisation of legislative matter with the legislation of the European Union. Our need to continue internal reforms is in line with the need to adapt to European standards, let us be a guideline in the work of committees and other bodies of the Croatian Parliament. I guarantee that I will do my duty objectively and impartially. There will be clear and increased emotions in the assembly, because it is inevitable, but I will run the assembly sessions objectively and collected always by respecting the rules and procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, the Croatian Parliament should continue to reflect the interests of all layers of Croatian society and of all Croatian regions. In this House, it is necessary to give a true opportunity to each representative to pass on the will and demands of his part of the electoral body. This House should remain open to the public, but more than that, the Croatian Parliament should now take a leading role in what Croatia needs today most in restoring the internal democratic stability of society in the consolidation of all the components of the country's state and social life, and full focus on the consistent and effective achievement of Croatia's fundamental objectives and interests at this stage of our development and including the most important European and international processes. Our complete commitment to democracy and the rule of law, the firm guarantees of minority, civil and religious freedoms, total equality and equality of all our citizens and respect for international obligations will find their confirmation in the work of this Croatian Assembly. I am convinced that around these principles and goals we are like-minded, which does not mean that this duty will be easy, but it is certainly honorable and I will behave with pride and responsibility. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest we approach the agenda. [[Applause.]] The materials you have received for the session have announced a possible agenda and I propose as agenda, the election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the elections carried out, the swearing of representatives, the election of the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the appointment of the Secretary of the Croatian Parliament, the election of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee for Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs. The selection of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system and the selection of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on Legislatives. Any of the MPs object to the proposed agenda? If there is no objection, I find the agenda established. We are now moving to work according to the established agenda. Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the elections carried out, the swearing of representatives, the election of the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the appointment of the Secretary of the Croatian Parliament, the election of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee for Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs. The selection of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system and the selection of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on Legislatives. Any of the MPs object to the proposed agenda? If there is no objection, I find the agenda established. We are now moving to work according to the established agenda. 1. The election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure lays down that the proposal for the election of the president, vice-president and members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission shall be submitted by representatives' clubs. In accordance with Article 105 of The Rules of Procedure found that the Commission had seven members other than the President and the Vice-President. In accordance with an inter-party agreement, representatives' clubs submitted the following proposal. Representative Damir Seslicar has been proposed for the president. For the vice president, Representative Srecko Ferenschak is proposed. Representatives Milanka Opačić, Biserka Perman, Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec, Mato Šimac, Vladimir Kurečić, Ivica Klem and Vlado Jukic were proposed for the committee. Does anyone want to take part in the debate? I am voting on a proposal to elect a president, vice-president and member of the Mandate-Immunity Commission in the proposed composition. Who's up for this proposal? Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 127 votes, the proposal has been accepted and I declare that we are the Mandate-Immunity Commission selected as President Damir Sesvečan, Vice-President Mr. Srecko Ferenčak, members of Milanka Opačić, Biserka Perman, Ivana Sučec-Trakostanec, Mato Štimac, Vladimir Kurečić, Ivica Clem and Vlado Jukic. I congratulate the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the election and I urge them to hold a session immediately and prepare the report in accordance with Article 6. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The session of the Committee will be held in Hall 133. Until I draw up the Mandate-Immunity Commission's report, I'm setting a 30-minute break. I thank the guests and guests for their presence at this session, and I invite them to join us for our reception on the occasion of the constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-0.u5	My colleagues and colleagues, allow me to submit on behalf of the Mandate-Immunity Commission a report on the elections held for representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the official election results for representatives of the Croatian Parliament, the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia at the 1st session held on 22 December 2003. The election for representatives in the Croatian Parliament is based on Article 97(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and Articles 5, 6 and 68(2). Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, the decision to call elections for representatives in the Croatian Parliament, National No. 165/03. The president of the Republic of Croatia, Stjepan Mesic, announced, and was held on 22, 23 and 30 November 2003. The State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia submitted to Mr Stjepan Mesic, President of the Republic of Croatia, a report on the elections held for representatives in the Croatian Parliament since 8 December 2003, which finally became the subject of deadlines for appeal. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia by letter SU 212/2003. of 6 December 2003, the State Election Commission informed that the deadlines for appeal had been laid down for the publication of election results for representatives in the Croatian Parliament, National Journal No 192/03, 195/03. The Committee found that in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament, 152 MPs were elected to the Croatian Parliament and 140 MPs were selected from a list of political parties, in 10 election units, in accordance with the provisions of Article 35. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. 4 MPs from a special list of political parties were elected in accordance with the provisions of Article 40 of the Law in a special constituency. 8 representatives of national minorities were elected on the basis of Articles 15 and 16. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The commission found that in accordance with Article 12 of Rules 1 and 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, National No. 6/02. Parliament's representatives continued to exercise their duties and powers after the parliament's disbandment until the new assembly of parliament was established and that the term of office of representatives of the previous Assembly ended on the day of the constitution. On the same day, it shall cease to be the representatives of the previous assembly of members of the Parliament of the bodies and organisations outside the Assembly, appointed by the Assembly of MPs if the appointment is conditional upon the conduct of the duties of representatives, and that day the membership of the working bodies of the Assembly shall cease to be appointed members. Following the statement, the Committee concluded that the term of office of representatives of the previous Assembly ended on the day of the constitution of the Assembly, and that the following MPs were elected to the Croatian Parliament, sorted by alphabetical order: Under 1. Jen Adam, under 2. Djurdja Adlesic, 3. Zdenko Antešić, under 4. Ingrid Antičević Marinović, 5. Željka Antunović, 6. Franjo Arabović, 7. Mr. Crescent. “ I’m a Lover of God, ” 5 / 8 Zdenka Nedjka Babić Petričević, 9. Branko Bačić, 10. Stjepan Bačić, 11. Anto Bagarić, 12. Ivan Bagarić, 13. Maria Byte, 14. Dr. Crescent. “ Imprisoned, ” 5 / 15 Milan Bandić, 16. Luka Bebić, 17. Snježana Biga-Friganovic, 18. Mr. Crescent. Božo Biskupić, 19. Jure Bitunjac, 20. Florian Boras, 21. Imprisoned, 12 / 22 Ljubica Brdarić, 23. Djuro Brodarac, 24. Ivica Buconjic, 25. Perica Bukić, 26. Carmela Caparin, 27. Dr. Crescent. Mato Churchman, 28. Radimir Cacic, 29. Dr. Crescent. Ivan Chehok, 30. Lino Cervar, 31. Petar Chobankovic, 32. Mr. Crescent. Zdenka Chuhil, 33. Tomislav Culjak, 34. Prof. Dr. Kresimir Cosic, 35. Prof. Dr. Miljenko Doric, 36. Valter Drandić, 37. Ivan Drmić, 38. Josip Djakić, 39. Anto Djapic, 40. Lucky Ferenchuck, 41. Mirko Filipovic, 42. Stjepan Fiolić, 43. Josip Friscic, 44. Ratko Gajica, 45. Mato Raven, 46. Branimir Glavas, 47. Mr. Crescent. Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic, 48. Prof. Dr. Andrew Hebrang, 49. William Herman, 50. Silvano Hrelja, 51. Mr. Crescent. Nikola Ivanish, 52. Ivan Jakovčić, 53. Gordan Jandroković, 54. Ivan Jarnjak, 55. Dr. Crescent. Ivo Josipovic, 56. Vlado Jukic, 57. DR. Ljubo Jurcic, 58. Mr. Crescent. Neven Jurica, 59. Mr. Crescent. Marin Jurjevic, 60. Damir Cain, 61. God of Calmeta, 62. Antun Kapraljevic, 63. Hansel Clem, 64. Miroslav Korenika, 65. Jadranka Kosor, 66. Dr. Crescent. Alenka Kosića Chicin-Shain, 67. Pero Kovacevic, 68. Zlatko Kramarić, 69. Vladimir Kurečić, 70. Velimir Kvesic, 71. Ljubica Lalic, 72. Zeljko Ledinski, 73. Joseph Leco, 74. Dragutin Lesar, 75. Glorious Letica, 76. Slavko Linic, 77. Ivo Lonchar, 78. Anna Lovrin, 79. Shime Luchin, 80. Nikola Mak, 81. Dujomir Marasovic, 82. Jaksa Marasovic, 83. Ante Markov, 84. Krunoslav Markovović, 85. Jagoda Martic, 86. Prof. Dr. Edge of Mastruco, 87. Dr. Crescent. Darko Milinović, 88. Mr. Crescent. Neven Mimica, 89. Marijan Mlinarić, 90. Petar Mlinarić, 91. Zvonimir Mršić, 92. Željko Nenadić, 93. Zivko Nenadić, 94. Milanka Opačić, 95. Hansel Pancic, 96. Mr. Crescent. Bozidar Pankretic, 97. Branimir Pasecky, 98. Jelena Pavičić-Vukicevic, 99. Zeljko Pavlic, 100. Zeljko Pecek, 101. Pearl Perman, 102. Anton Perusko, 103. Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac, 104. Tonino Picula, 105. Velimir Plesha, 106. Dr. Crescent. Drago Prgomet, 107. It's a vertebrae shime, 108. Dragutin Pukleš, 109. Zvonimir Puljic, 110. Dr. Crescent. Milorad Pupovac, 111. DR. Vesna Pusić, 112. Hansel Racan, 113. Furio Radin, 114. Jozo Radosh, 115. Niko Rebić, 116. Luka Roić, 117. Mr. Crescent. Miroslav Rožić, 118. Dr. Crescent. Bellimir Sabati, 119. Dr. Crescent. Ivo Sanader, 120. Prof. Dr. Peter Selem, 121. Damir Sesvečan, 122. Gordana Sobol, 123. Zdravko Sočković, 124. Vojislav Stanimirovic, 125. Nenad Stazic, 126. Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec, 127. Dr. Crescent. Joseph the Judge, 128. Darko Shantic, 129. Vladimir Shakespeare, 130. Dr. Crescent. Nevio Šetić, 131. Vladimir Šišljagić, 132. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, 133. Vesna Škulić, 134. Mato Šimac, 135 Dubravka Shuica, 136. Ivan Shuker, 137. Dr. Crescent. Tonci Tadic, 138. Prof. Dr. Shemso Tankovic, 139. Ruža Tomasic, 140. Gold Tomcic, 141. Emil Tomljanović, 142. Jozo Topić, 143. Prof. Dr. Marko Turić, 144. Davorko Vidovic, 145. Vladimir Vranković, 146. Ivan Vukić, 147. Dr. Crescent. Antun Vujic, 148. Branko Vukelić, 149. Vice-Vukov, 150. Dear Zgrebec, 151. Mario Zubović and 152. Prof. Dr. Miomir Zuzul. The Committee then found that on 22 December 2003, it began the rest of the parliamentary mandate to the representatives: Ivica Racanu, 2. Slavko Linić, Prof. Dr. Mother Church, Željki Antunović, Shimi Lucino, Tonina Piculi, Dr. Kiss Jurcic, Hansel Pancic, Antun, Dr. Antun Vujic, Mr. Bozidar Pankretić, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, Davorko Vidovic, Mr. Neven Mimica, Radimir Cacic, Željko Peceku, Gordani Sobol, Ivo Banac and Ivo Bancu, who were elected to the Croatian Parliament according to the results of the election, but act as members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The mandate of those MPs will rest until the Croatian Parliament shows confidence to the new Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Commission found that Article 9 was in line with Article 9 of the basic Regulation. The Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, which provides for the non-compliance of parliamentary duties with the simultaneous conduct of the duties referred to in paragraph 2, shall be subject to the conditions laid down in paragraph 3 of the Law for the start of the stay of the parliamentary term of office of the following representatives; under 1. Anto Bagarić, under 2. Milan Bandić, 3. Djuro Brodarac, 4. Josip Friščić, under 5. Ivan Jakovčić, 6. Prof. Dr. Hansel Mashtruco, 7. Imitation, 8 / 8 Dr. Crescent. Bellimir Sabati and 9. Jaksa Marasovic. The political parties shall be a part of the elected deputies whose term of office shall rest on the basis of Article 12(1). The law of its list of unselected candidates in the electoral units has been set up by candidates for deputy deputies and has also been reported by the Croatian Parliament, and therefore the parliamentary mandate begins to act as follows: under 1. Damir Spanishic, deputy MPs run in the 5th election unit as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Union list instead of Ante Bagaric. Marija Lugaric, deputy deputy candidate in the 2nd election unit as candidate for the Social Democratic Party of Croatia and Party of Liberal Democrats instead of Milan Bandic, Ivanka Roksandić, deputy candidate for candidate in the 6th election unit as candidate for the Croatian Democratic Union instead of Đura Brodarac, Ivan Kolar, deputy candidate for the 2nd election team as candidate for the Croatian Peasant Party, instead of Josip Frišić, Valter Poropat, deputy deputy candidate for the 8th election unit as candidate for the Social Democratic Party coalition of Croatia and the Istrian Democratic Party in place of Ivan Jakovic, Željko Kurt, deputy candidate for the 9th election unit as candidate for candidate for the Croatian People's Party instead of Prof. Dr. Ivica Mastruka, Zdenko Haramija, deputy representative run in the 6th constituency as candidate on the list of Croatian peasant parties instead of Željka Ledinski and Josip Vresk, deputy MPs running in the 3rd constituency as candidate on the list of Croatian peasant parties instead of Dr. She's ringing Sabati. The names of other unselected candidates in the election units who will act as representative during the prevention of the elected MP that he behaves by political parties will be determined later and reported by the president of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with the said Mandate-Immunity Commission, it was decided that on 22 December 2003, the meeting of MPs began: Ivica Racan, Slavko Linic, Prof. Dr. Mother Church, Željki Antunović, Šimi Lucin, Tonini Picula, Dr. Ljubi Jurčić, Ivica Pancic, Dr. Antunu Vujic, Mr. Bozidar Pankretić, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, Davorko Vidović, Mr. Bride Mimica, Radiir Chacic, Željka Pecek, Dr. Ivo Banac and Gordani Sobol continue until the Croatian Parliament shows confidence in the new Government of the Republic of Croatia, and that on 22 December 2003, it begins, starting to rest the parliamentary mandate and on that day the parliamentary duty begins to act as deputy MPs: Damir Spanishic, deputy candidate in the 5th election unit as candidate for the Croatian Democratic Party, instead of Ante Bagaric, Marija Lugaric, deputy deputy deputy candidate candidate in the 2nd election unit as candidate for the Social Democratic Party of Croatia and Party of Liberal Democrats, instead of Milan Bandic, Ivana Roksandić, deputy deputy candidate candidate for the 6th election unit as candidate for the Croatian Democratic Union List instead of Đura Brodarac, Ivan Kolar deputy MPs in the 2nd election unit as candidate for Croatian Peasant Party instead of Josip Fristić, Valkokoko's candidate for the Democratic Party. Ivica Mastruka, Zdenko Haramija deputy MPs run in the 6th constituency as candidate on the Croatian Peasant Party list instead of Željka Ledinski, Josip Vresk deputy MPs run in the 3rd constituency as candidate on the Croatian Peasant Party list instead of Dr. She's ringing Sabati. The conclusion on elected representatives in the Croatian Parliament as well as the decision to open the term of office of MPs acting incompatible with the MP and to start acting as representative and their deputies will be published in the National Journal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-0.u6	I thank the President of the Committee. I'm opening a debate on the report. I'm closing the debate. I give the vote the following conclusion: A report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the elections held for the Croatian Parliament and the names of elected representatives, the names of MPs acting incompatible with the parliamentary duty, and their mandate rests, and the deputies who start acting as a representative instead. Please, who's in charge of this report? Thank you. Against? Abstained? Thank you very much. I find that 132 votes accept the conclusion of the Mandatory Immunity Commission unanimously. Now we're going to go to: 3. Advocacy of MPs Following a report by the Executive Immunity Commission on the elections carried out pursuant to Article 7. Rules of Procedure, I call upon you to join in your oath. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure have been established that the President shall read the text of the oath, after which he or she shall, by name, appeal to the MPs, the representative when he is called up and pronounces his oaths. I'll read the text of the oath now. I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the Law and respect the legal order, and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia. After that, I would now read and call one by one advocacy to make an oath. The call shall be made exclusively according to the presence data on the basis of the signed registration list. And now I ask the messengers, yes, I will call them, and every representative and representative shall rise up and say to the oath. Jane Adam-prism, Đurđa Adlešić-prism, Zdenko Antešić, Franjo Arapović, Mato Arlović-prism, Zdenka Babić-Petričević-prism, Branko Bačić, Štjepan Bačić, Ivan Bagarić, Marija Bajt-prism, Luka Bebić-pristavam, Snježana Biga-Friganović-prism, Bozo Biškupić, Jure Bitunjac, Florijan Boras-prism, Draža Bošnjaković-pristava, Ljubica Brdarić-Prijam-Prijam, Perica Buconjmić, Perica Bukić, Karmljevržam-Krabranžam, Ivan Čežam-Krežam-Krvar, Petar Čežam-Kov, Petar Čožam-Kov, Petar Čožam-Pjam-Pov, Petar Čov, Petar Čožam-Popić-Popić-Pjam-Pov, Zdrijam-Pov, Zdrijam-Pjam-Pjam-Pjam-Pjam-Pjam-Pjam-Pjam-Pjam-Kov, Zdenković-Pjam-Pjam-Pjam-Pjam-Pjam-Pjam-Pjam-Pov, Zd, Zdrijam-P-Pjam-Pjam-Pjam-Pjam, Zd, Zd, Zd, Zd, Zd, Zdrijam-P-P-Pjam-Pjam-Pjam-P-P-P-Pjam-P-P-P-P-Pjam-Pjam-Pjam-Pjam-P, Zd, Zd, Zd, Zd, Zd, Zd, Zdrijam-Pjam-Pjam-Pjam-Pjam-Pjam-Pjam-Pjam-Pjam-Pjam-Pjam-Pjam- Branimir Pasečki-posjem, Jelena Pavičić pri Šukičević, Željko Pavlic-prisjam, Biserka Perman, Anton Peruško-pristavam, Dorotea Pošić-Bukovac, Velimir Plješam-prisam, Valter Poropt, Drago Prtenjam, Dragutin Pukleš-prisam, Zvonimir Puljić-prisam, Milard Pupovcim-prisam, Vesna Pusić-prisac, Furio Radin-pristava, Jozo Radoš-posem, Niko Rebić-prisam, Luka Rožam Roksim, Ivanka-Prisem-Sprisemić, Miroslav Rožović, Ivo Sanader-Prijamić, Ivo Sanader-Prijam, Zader-Prijam-Prijam, Petar-Prijam-Prijam, Jozom-Prijam, Jozom-Pjam-Pložm-Pjam-Pjam, Damir, Damir, Damir, Damir, Damir Semir Sveč, Zvečkom-Svečkom, Zvić-Svečkom, Zvić-Sveč, Zvić-Sveč, Zvić-Sveč, Zvić, Zvić, Zvić-Pović, Zvić, Zvić, Zvić, Zvić-P, Zvić, Zvić, Zvić, Zvić, Zvić, Zvić, Zvić, Zvić, Zvić, Zvić, Zvić, Zvić, Zv. Congratulations to the MPs and MPs on their sworn oath, and I wish them success in carrying out an honorable and responsible representative's duty. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-0.u9	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! The inter-party agreements that were led before the constitutional session of the Croatian Parliament reached an agreement for the Croatian Democratic Community to belong to the two vice-presidential seats of the Croatian Parliament, the other parties to three vice-presidential seats. In accordance with this inter-party agreement, we have run for Vice-President Luka Bebić, one of the most experienced parliamentary representatives whom we are sure will be fully responsible for this high duty and Dr. Darko Milinovic, also a man who has shown a high degree of responsibility in his political and professional action so far. These are our two proposals, and I ask you to support these proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-0.u10	Thank you very much. Does the representative of SDP's Club want to explain the proposal for the vice president of the Croatian Parliament? Mr Mato Arlovic was proposed on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Does the representative of the HNS Club and the PGS want to explain the proposal to elect a vice president? Yeah. Mr. Representative Drago Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-0.u11	Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The Croatian People's Party club and the PGS joint vice president of the Croatian Parliament proposes to Mrs Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-0.u12	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of HSP Representatives, Mr. Representative Miroslav Rožić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-0.u13	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives! Mr President, by explaining how to propose for this item of the agenda, quoted Article 31. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, but allow me a few words of introduction. The Croatian party of rights is founded on Croatian law and this means that we are also experiencing our mission as a historical task to defend the rights of the Croatian people. Here, in the name of the Croatian Party Club, I want to defend democracy and democracy is known as well and as mentioned in its opening speech and the President of the Parliament is the foundation of democracy, one of the foundations of democracy is the procedure and the basis of the procedure for this high Croatian House is the Rules of Procedure of this House. Article 31, which is mentioned in the draft item of the agenda by the President of the Parliament, reads as a whole. Since he only read paragraph 1 let me read the other two. The second item reads: "If two vice-presidents are elected one is elected on the parliamentary majority proposal and the other on the parliamentary minority's proposal." The third item reads: "If five vice-presidents are elected, the three vice-presidents are elected on a parliamentary majority proposal and two on a parliamentary minority proposal." I would therefore, on behalf of the HSP Club, ask that the majority of parliament be established here and that the parliamentary majority, according to the Rules of Procedure of this assembly, propose its three candidates. And then the parliamentary minority proposes its two candidates that our Rules of Procedure do so. It is true that Article 5 states that promoters can be clubs but that is not at all in college. The parliamentary majority is finally made up of clubs and the parliamentary minority is also made up of clubs. I therefore ask nicely for the proposal for three vice-presidents to be supported by 77 votes of this assembly, which means a minimum for the parliamentary majority, i.e. the other two proposals to be supported by clubs belonging to the parliamentary minority. Otherwise, we will, unfortunately, go to the constitutive session to violate the Rules of Procedure, or to try to automatically interpret the very clear provisions of the Rules of Procedure which would by no means be smart, well or directed, and would not be a good message to the public that probably follows this constitutive session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-0.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Rose. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-0.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! The Croatian Democratic Community Club, reading article 31, can say that exactly what Mr. Rozic stated, but we have the right to propose today and one that does not collude with this article, which you are saying is that the parliamentary majority proposes three. It's not said when, it's not said within what time. We know that today's assembly is established by the election of the president and the Croatian Democratic Community by not entering into the debates of other parties, and I said, in accordance with the inter-party agreement, it proposes two vice-presidents. Who will be and what will be the parliamentary majority and minorities will be seen tomorrow at the vote of the government, on the programme and the members of the government. Today we do not vote on this, today we elect the vice presidents of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, what we propose to the two vice presidents is fully in line with this article that you quoted. We can suggest one, we don't have to propose one today, and then we'd be in accordance with the rule. I therefore hold that there is no need to open a question on which we will see tomorrow at the vote on the government, who is, who supports the government and who does not support the government. And then it does not mean that this is the parliamentary majority because I hope that, in accordance with the speech of the President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Vladimir Seks, we will begin this mandate, this term of office in one atmosphere of mutual tolerance and tolerance, that we will resolve any recommendations in the debate, democratically, but therefore, by addressing you once again, or by reacting to your statement, I do not think we have hurt the Rules of Procedure, even if we have repeatedly suggested one, it would be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So, I suggest you join, of course, after the service, the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-0.u16	Thank you very much. Representative Ljubica Lalić, correction of the incorrect quote. All right, here we go.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-0.u18	I thank Mr. President, so we must correct, unfortunately at this constitutive session, the wrong quote. And fellow MP Sanader said that tomorrow you will see who the parliamentary majority is who votes for the government. That's completely incorrect. The parliamentary majority is made up of those who have signed coalition agreements. And on the basis of who will vote for the government, this really cannot be counted in such a way by the parliamentary majority. We would be pleased, though, to vote for the government, but when something is declared then it should be precise.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-0.u19	All right, here we go.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-0.u20	I agree entirely with your interpretation is not, not voting on the government is the measure that is sufficient for, which is characterised by the parliamentary majority. I agree with that. And since you mentioned it, I would like to mention that we were at a constitutional session, or in the election when the past government was elected, after the January 3rd election voted for the government and we were not the parliamentary majority. You're right, so voting for the government doesn't mean we're in a parlemant majority. The parliamentary majority is made up of those MPs who have signed the mandate's signature. But I said that today, so we don't determine that, that was mine, if I'm misread, I apologize. So, I repeat, at the constitutional session of those elections after 3 January, we voted for the government, both us from the HDZ and the opposition because we considered it a single civil act but we were not the parliamentary majority, that is correct, but a minority.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-0.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative Miroslav Rozic.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-0.u22	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Let me really, if we want to interpret widely, I will not quote again not to bother, but if we really want to widely interpret the possibility that if we choose five vice-presidents we do not have to choose today all five, then the parliamentary majority proposes only two and not three as is necessary under the Rules of Procedure, or the parliamentary minority proposes two as it should be under the Rules of Procedure, so we will probably choose only four then. Because what I'm trying to say is that we're not going to choose five vice presidents today. If the parliamentary majority doesn't propose three, then we won't choose all five. If that's the case, okay, we can also agree on such a broad interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. However, what we definitely cannot agree is that in the Rules of Procedure for this session, it is quite clear that these, either two or three vice-presidents, are elected on the parliamentary majority proposal. Therefore, we must determine who is the parliamentary majority in this House. I listened with interest to the debate, correcting Mrs. Ljubice Lalic's incorrect quote, I have nothing to add. What we are looking for, what I am looking for in the name of the club, what we are looking for in the HSP Club is that in the Croatian Parliament the establishment belongs to the parliamentary majority and who belongs to the parliamentary minority. This if it cannot be established in the manner prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, where it is said that the Vice-Presidents are proposed by the parliamentary majority and by interpretation by Ms Lalic's intervention on behalf of the HSS Club cannot be determined by the support of the Government, so can you please tell us how and when this can be determined? Whether it will ever be determined. My colleague Kramaric says x-ray, I guess he's joking. But do we have to respect the Rules of Procedure to determine who the parliamentary majority is? We don't prejudge at all who it is who it isn't. I will therefore repeat the request of the HSP Club, which is: 77 MPs from any clubs and from any status in this Croatian Parliament must support a proposal for the two vice-presidents of parliament proposed by the parliamentary majority, 77 of them must be whatever they are, that is minimum for determining, so we will know that the 77 parliamentary majority is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-0.u23	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. It is true that MP Rosic points out that in Article 31. The Rules of Procedure in its full text states that if 5 is elected, but if 5 is chosen, 3 are elected on the parliamentary majority's proposal and 2 on the parliamentary minority's proposal. However, it is also true that the standard set out in Article 5(3) exists. The Rules of Procedure of this House, which states that the right to submit proposals for the election of Vice-Presidents of the Assembly, have representatives' clubs at the constitutive session and remain at the will of the president, i.e. representatives' clubs to present their proposals. I too have no other, I cannot go in any way and the mechanism to determine the parliamentary majority, or parliamentary majority or parliamentary minority rather than to table proposals for the election of vice-presidents. We have 4, we have four names, the fifth one stays for the next session. I ask you to respect that and move in that direction. Mr. Representative Slaven Letica, come in. My friend Letica, the guys at the club, they're talking from the pay phones and the representative from the scene. It's all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-0.u24	I'm here for the first time. Therefore, it is not disputed that, according to Article 5, MP clubs have the right to propose vice-presidents, however, they may propose but in order to be proposed at the Parliament, regardless of whether they are 2 or 5, these proposals must be proposed by the parliamentary majority. So item 2 says if two are elected, they must have the support of the parliamentary majority and in paragraph 3 if they are re-elected 5 and they must have the parliamentary majority's position. So it is indisputable that the position of the HSPa Club is impenetrable from the position of the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-0.u25	Thank you very much. So we have no other way out than to move on to a statement on the proposals of the representatives' clubs. I remind you that the election of Vice-President of the Parliament requires most of the votes of the present deputies. I am voting on the proposal from the Croatian Democratic Community's club to elect Mr Luka Bebic as vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Who's for this proposal, please? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Abstained? Thank you very much. I find that the proposal has been accepted with 125 votes for, and 8 votes against, and I declare that Mr. Luka Bebic has been elected as vice president of the Croatian Parliament. I am voting on the proposal from the Croatian Democratic Community's club to elect Mr Darko Milinovic as vice president of the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause]] Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you very much. I find that the proposal has been accepted by 125 votes in favour, and 8 against. I declare that Mr Darko Milinović has been elected vice president of the Croatian Parliament. I am voting on a proposal from the SDP club to elect Mr Mato Arlović as vice president of the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause]] Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that a proposal with 126 votes for, and 8 abstentions has been accepted to elect Mr. Mato Arlovic as vice president, I declare that Mr. Mato Arlovic was elected as vice president of the Croatian Parliament. I am voting on the proposal of the club of representatives of HNS and PGSS, to elect Mrs Vesna Pusic as vice president of the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause]] Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Abstained? I find that the proposal has been accepted by 126 votes in favour, and 8 abstentions. And I declare that Mrs Vesna Pusic has been elected as vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Congratulations to the elected vice president and vice presidents, I wish them a lot of success in their work. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Rožić on behalf of the HSP Club please.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-0.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I express my disdain and indignation on behalf of the Croatian Party Club, that this way, in this constitutive session, the Rules of Procedure have been bypassed. That you've done most of your votes what you intended and wanted. I hope it doesn't become a practice, that we haven't shown this that we're going to do it here and in the future. And I hope that until the establishment of the working bodies of this Parliament and of the committee, I do not know in which way but who is the parliamentary majority and this is the parliamentary minority, in order to know about the committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-0.u27	Thank you. We're going to the next point, and that's the appointment of Secretary of Parliament. On the basis of Article 5(5), The Rules of Procedure of the HDZA Representatives Club submitted a proposal for the appointment of the Secretary of the Croatian Parliament, with a proposal to appoint Mr Josip Sesar as Secretary of the Croatian Parliament. So far, the secretary of the Croatian Parliament, Ms Danica Orcic, has resigned in writing at the office of the secretary of the Croatian Parliament today. Does the Proposer want a representative? He doesn't want to explain the proposal. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal of the HDZ Club to appoint Mr. Josip Sesar as Secretary of the Croatian Parliament. Please, who's in favour of this proposal? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Abstained? I find that the proposal has been accepted by 113 votes for, and 21 abstentions, and I declare that Mr. Josip Sesar has been appointed Secretary of the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-0.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall be submitted to the Croatian Parliament by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament to the Croatian Assembly of the Proposal for a Decision on the Selection of Presidents and Members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament; the proposal for a decision on the election of the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament. These proposals were set up by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament at the 1st session held on 22 December 2003. Proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament elects: Mr Drazen Bosnjakovic belongs to the SDP for the president. For the time being, the SDP has not submitted its proposal, it will give it after verification of the mandate of the remaining parliamentary deputies. For members: Prof. Dr. Šemso Tanković, Mr Emil Tomljanović, Mr Velimir Pleša, Mr Luka Bebić, Branimir Glavas, Mr Florian Boras, Ms Ljubica Lalić, Mr Dragutin Lesar, Prof. Dr. The famous Letica and Mr. Mato Arlović. Recital: Article 12(2) The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are prescribed to suspend the term of office of representatives of the previous assembly on the day of the constitution of the Assembly. This Regulation shall enter into The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are prescribed that the working body shall have the President, the Vice-President and a certain number of members elected and dismissed by the Assembly of Members, the composition of the working body as a rule corresponds to the party composition of the Assembly and that the term of office of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the working body shall take place from the day of the election until the day of termination, as the term of office of office shall take place, or until the day of his appointment. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament have a president, vice-president and 11 members from the ranks of MPs, and six other members are appointed from the order of public, scientific and professional staff. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure which are prescribed that the composition of a working body shall, as a rule, correspond to the party composition of the Assembly and, in accordance with the inter-party agreement. On the composition of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament for the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament are proposed by the following representatives. For the president, I repeat again, Drazen Bosnjakovic of the HDZ ranks. The post of Vice-President of the Committee is scheduled for the SDP, which will be completed later. For members, it is proposed: Prof. Dr. Šemso Tanković from the ranks of national minorities, Mr Tomljanović from HDZ, Mr Velimir Plesa from HDZ ranks, Mr Luka Bebić - HDZ, Branimir Glavas - HDZ, Mr Florijan Boras - HDZ, Mrs Ljubica Lalić - HSS, Dragutin Lesar from HNS, Prof. dr. The famous HSP Letica and Mr. Mato Arlovic of the SDP. At its 1st session held on 22 December 2003, the Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed those proposals and, in accordance with Article 44(3), Article 58(1), Article 91(2), Article 118(2) and Article 244(4). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously laid down this proposal for a decision with an explanation to be submitted to the Croatian Parliament. Mr. President, should I read the second proposal?
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-0.u32	When we vote this.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-0.u33	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-0.u34	I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs for the Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system and the proposed members. Please, who's in favour of this proposal? Thank you. Against? Abstained? I find that, for the proposal of the Committee for Selection, Appointation and Administrative Affairs, it has been accepted by 122 votes for, there are no abstentions, for the Constitution, for the Rules of Procedure and the Political System and I declare that they are for the president, that Drazen Bošnjak is also elected for members of Šemso Tanković, Emil Tomljanović, Velimir Plesa, Luka Bebić, Branimir Glavas, Florijan Boras, Ljubica Lalic, Dragutin Lesar, Slaven Letica and Mato Arlović. I congratulate the president and the board members on the election, and the others, as stated, will be elected later. I would like the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Appointment and Administrative Affairs to read the proposal of the Committee on the Selection of Presidents, Vice-Presidents and Members of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-0.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament. The proposal reads: Mr. Josip Leko, Vice-President of the Committee Mr. Florian Boras, for members of the Committee: Mr. Zvonimir Puljic, Mr. Damir Sesvečan, Mr. Emil Tomljanović, Mr. Velimir Pleša, Mr. Nikola Mak, Mr. Josip Vresk, Mr. Darko Shantić, Mr. Pero Kovačević and Mr. Ivo Josipovic. Recital: Article 12(2) The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are prescribed to suspend the term of office of representatives of the previous assembly on the day of the constitution of the Assembly. This Regulation shall enter into The Rules of Procedure are prescribed that the working body has a president, a vice-president and a certain number of members elected and resolved by the Assembly of Representatives. That the composition of the working body generally corresponds to the party composition of the Assembly and that the term of office of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the working body shall take place from the day of election until the day of termination or the stay of the parliamentary term of office, or from the day of discharge of the office to which he has been elected. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have a President, Vice-President, 11 members from the House of Representatives, and 9 other members are appointed from the ranks of public, scientific and professional employees, and one from the ranks of representatives of the union of several levels, associations of employers and respected lawyers from practice. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure, which are prescribed that the composition of the working body shall normally correspond to the party composition of the Assembly and, in accordance with the inter-party agreement on the composition of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, to the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on Law of the Croatian Parliament, shall be proposed by the following representatives: for President Josip Leko of the SDP. For Vice-President Florian Boras of HDZ, for members: Mr Zvonimir Puljic, HDZ; Mr Damir Sesvečan, HDZ; Mr Emil Tomljanović, HDZ; Mr Velimir Plesa, HDZ; Mr Nikola Mak from the ranks of the German national minority, Mr Josip Vresk from the ranks of HSS, Mr Darko Shantic from the Croatian People's Party, Mr Pero Kovacevic from the Croatian Party of Law and Dr Ivo Josipovic as independent. At its first session held on 22 December 2003, the Selection and Designation Committee and the Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed those proposals and discussed, in accordance with Article 44(3), Article 60(1), Article 91(2), Article 118(2) and Article 244(4). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, unanimously found that this proposal for a decision with an explanation submitted to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2003-12-22-0.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am putting the motion for a vote on the committee's proposal. Please, who's in favour of this committee proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you very much. I find it unanimous with 123 votes to be elected to the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament for President Josip Leko, Vice-President Florian Boras and members of Zvonimir Puljic, Damir Sesvečan, Emil Tomljanović, Velimir Plesa, Nikola Mak, Josip Vresk, Darko Shantić, Pero Kovacevic and Ivo Josipovic. I congratulate the President, the Vice-President and the elected members of the Legislative Committee and before the meeting is concluded I call an extraordinary session in 16 hours with the proposed agenda you received on the benches. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the Final Proposal for a Law, Proposal for a Law on the Designation and Fraction of Ministrys and State Administrative Organizations with the Final Proposal of the Law, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of State Administration with the Final Proposal for Law, Presentation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and a Voting on the Trust of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I ask the presidents of the Committee on Legislatives, Mr Lek and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system to hold meetings of the Committee at once in this apartment, and this has already been agreed by the Committee on the Constitution in room 84, and the Committee on Law in room 133, and to implement these three laws. And after that, when this one, when these three bill proposals work out, I ask MPs and MPs to be photographed on the ground floor of the left, polyvalent hall, across the street from the register, for representative IDs. I'm closing this session and the second, extraordinary session starts at 4:00. Thank you very much.
