ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4217	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I can welcome you very warmly and the 55. Declaration by the National Council on Openness. I should like to welcome the President-in-Office of the Council in our midst. [[General condolences.]] [[Federal President Van der Bellen rises from his place in the President's log and thanks with a bowing.]] Furthermore, I warmly welcome Mr. Volksanwalt Werner Amon and the members of the Federal Government – German Chancellor, Vice-Chancellor and all other members of the government – who are present today on the occasion of the budget speech. [[General acknowledgment]] I am pleased to welcome the media representatives and, above all, our spectators at home in front of the televisions. The official protocols of 53. Meeting and 54. Meeting of 7. October 2020 has been raised in the Parliamentary Directorate and has not been challenged. As prevented, the Members of this House are reported today. Michael Hammer, Alexander Melchior, Julia Elisabeth Herr, Klaus Köchl, Philip Kucher, Maximilian Lercher, Mag. Gerald Hauser, Edith Mühlberghuber, Walter Rauch, Mag. Georg Bürstmayr, Mag. Meri Disoski, Mag. Martina Künsberg Sarreund Josef Schellhorn. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4313	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union has made the following communication: Federal Minister for the EU and Constitution Mag. Karoline Edtstadler is represented by the Federal Minister for the Interior of Karl Nehammer, MSc. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4346	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I may, in accordance with § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure refer to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4509	I am allowed to announce that the meeting will be held between ORF 2 and 1 p.m. and ORF III thereafter until 7.15 p.m. and that the session will be transmitted via live stream. Application in accordance with § 69 para. 3 GOOD
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4529	It is my request according to § 69 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure to adopt at first reading the Government template concerning the Federal Finance Act 2021 and Annexes in 380 of the Supplements. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent to give a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Thank you very much. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4553	It is proposed that the debates on points 6 and 7, 8 to 11 and 17 and 18 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - Neither. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4575	A consensus was reached between the members of the Presidential Conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, we have a day block time of 8 “Vienna hours. ” It is due to the ÖVP 156 minutes, to the SPÖ 108 minutes, to the FPÖ 88 minutes, to the green 80 minutes as well as to the NEOS 64 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club per 32 minutes. The speaking time per debate is limited to 5 minutes. I can come to the vote on speaking time at once. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – The speaking times are also unanimously adopted. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4608	In accordance with § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure asked for the written question 3749/J by Mr Loacker, colleagues, to the Federal Minister for Social Affairs, Health, Care and Consumer Protection, to be put to the agenda, with reference to 'The press conference in the Corona Chaos: The responsibility of Minister of Health and Federal Chancellors to treat urgently the European spread of the Covid virus from Ischgl. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed no later than 3 p.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4632	Before entering the agenda, I should also like to say that Members of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs have requested that Klubobmann Leichtfried, colleagues, report to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs on the request 167/A concerning a federal law amending the Plant Protection Act 2011 be extended until 19. In November 2020, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to the Member States of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the Member States of the Member States relating to the Member States of the Member States relating to the Member States of the European Parliament and The motion for a resolution will be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. We are therefore going into the agenda. [[10:07:11]] 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Minister for Finance on the Government Template on the Federal Finance Act for the year 2021, including investments
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4668	We now proceed to item 1 of the agenda. I can give the floor to Mr Blümel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4692	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Dear taxpayers! In front of you is the budgetary response to the Covid crisis. This answer is expensive, but we can afford it. In recent years, under Chancellor Sebastian Kurz, the Austrian Federal Government has pursued a sound budget policy, which now enables us to provide sufficient assistance. Our reliable policy of the past thus saves jobs of the future, and that is important now. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Of course, as Minister of Finance, I would have hoped for other framework conditions for this budget and for Austria in general. Even if this budget is still not comparable to a budget in normal times, it is an indication that the corona nebula swallows are slowly illuminating and we have more planningability in all the continuing drama of the situation than at the beginning of the pandemic. Just a few months ago, it was quite different, as you can remember: Never before has there been such a high volatility in economic forecasts in the Second Republic within a few months. When we entered the Federal Government at the beginning of the year and negotiated the first budget, we did so on the basis of completely different figures, based on growth forecasts of 1.2 percent for 2020. In early March, when the budgets had already been negotiated with the resorts, the corona virus spread rapidly in Europe. At this point, we asked the Economic Research Institute for a quick assessment of the impact, and the quick answer was that a reduction in forecasts by 0.4 percent to 0.8 percent growth would be possible for this year, and that was the basis for the much-discussed budget in this House. A week later, Austria was so affected by the global effects of the Corona virus that we stretched up a 38 billion euro protective shield for health, jobs and business. At the end of March, funds for short-time work were increased from 400 million already registered to 1 billion euros. At the latest from this point on, it was clear that it can no longer be budget figures, but must be about saving as many lives as possible, jobs and businesses in this difficult situation. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] One month later, there was no more talk of a slight growth in the Austrian economy, quite the contrary, the forecasts ranged from minus 2% to minus 9 percent, as an example of the impossible planning basis for the 2020 budget. All the experts agreed in spring that in autumn, now, is the right moment for a first case crash, and today we can better estimate how much Austria will be hit by this crisis, how much the crisis has cost us so far and how we have been set up for the next few years. Meanwhile, we have learned a lot about the virus and its health and economic consequences. After a three-quarters of a year, we have gained experience, which measures work and which areas of our economy are particularly affected. Ladies and gentlemen, we know above all one thing: Higher rates of infection mean higher unemployment! That is why we must do everything we can to reduce the number of infections in order to save as many jobs as possible in this country. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] All these experiences now lead to adjusted economic forecasts. In its current forecast of early October, the Wifo expects an economic downturn of 6.8 percent this year. Next year, an increase of 4.4 percent is expected. But that does not mean, of course, that everything is in the best order, quite the contrary, contrary to all hope, the warnings of the Federal Government from spring have proved true: Unfortunately, we are not at the end, but in the middle of a global economic crisis, which also captivates Austria. As a tourism and export country, this situation is even much harder than other countries. Between May and August, nights in hotels, pensions and apartments fell on average by 33 percent to just under 40 million compared to the same period of the previous year. In Vienna alone, the bookings are broken down by 82 percent during this period, and unfortunately, autumn and winter will also face major challenges. The number of infections continues to rise, and some countries have issued travel warnings against parts of Austria, which is a Job Message for the tourism industry that has already been hard hit. Therefore, we must again take effective measures to reduce the number of infections and get rid of the travel warnings. Each and every one of us can help to secure jobs of friends and relatives through their behaviour and help businesses in the region get through the crisis better. The discipline of all of us in the coming weeks reduces the damage to the site in the long term. The better we get through the crisis together, the faster we get back to prosperity and the more jobs we save, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In order to help in this difficult situation, governments around the world have first strapped aid packages and then economic packages. The Austrian Federal Government has also responded quickly and decisively. In mid-June, we extended the 38 billion euro shield to 50 billion euros and added an economic package. With our actions we have pursued three objectives: first, the saving of human life, jobs and businesses, second, the relief of citizens and third investment in the location and competitiveness of Austria. That is the right budgetary answer to the Covid crisis, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] Of the 50 billion euros, around 24.8 billion euros are currently legally committed or disbursed. Among other things, we have currently approved applications over €8.2 billion for corona-short work, paid more than €200 million in fixed-cost grant, approved €6.8 billion in tax payments and advance payment reductions, granted €6.7 billion in guarantees, paid €100 million from the non-profit organisation fund and some €600 million from the hard-fall fund. If external conditions become difficult, we need to make it easier for citizens and businesses. That's why we've got 1 with 1. VAT on certain sectors is reduced to 5 per cent on July 2020 and, in practice, is set to the greatest possible degree of red tape and as little bureaucracy as possible. We will extend this measure until the end of 2021 due to the still tense situation, as long as, of course, the European Commission approves it. Ladies and gentlemen! It is now also necessary to provide special support for families, for workers, for the unemployed and for pensioners. Above all, people with low incomes are expected to have more money in the stock exchange – we are putting this into practice with this budget, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Through the Coronabonus we relieve the Austrians in total with a volume of around 2.7 billion euros. This is due to the reduction in the first stage of wage tax about EUR 1.6 billion, the children's bonus amounts to just under EUR 700 million, the higher social security refund to EUR 150 million, and the total unemployment bonus of EUR 200 million. With all these packages, we provide strong impetus for our economy, but also an important relief for citizens. Over-average benefits in relation to income levels are single-parents, single-earners, workers, women and persons with an annual income to be taxed between 15 000 and 25 000 euros. Professor Badelt of the Institute for Economic Research at a press conference on 1st October. October said: “The corona crisis was and is massive, but it was driven off by the government’s social and economic policies.” According to Wifo, the lowest income fifth has even gained a little income from the corona aid measures in the crisis. The package of measures therefore helps particularly small and medium-sized incomes. This is not only important for the people, but also for moral reasons, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In addition to the Acute Aids, we have set in particular impulses in the area of investment and incentivising value added. We have made 2 billion euros available for the investment premium, and currently 24 363 applications have been submitted for this purpose. This will trigger a total investment of about 16.6 billion euros. With the municipal package of 1 billion euros, we have created another lever to trigger local investments and value creation on site in the municipality. In this context, at the beginning of October, 781 projects amounting to almost 100 million euros from all the federal states have already been applied for and paid out. We have helped quickly and forcefully with the economic package, and at the same time we have set the course to increase the long-term competitiveness of the site. Only by the unlimited introduction of the degressive AF with 1. We expect an investment impulse of up to EUR 250 million in the second half of 2020 and additional investments of around EUR 1 billion from 2021 onwards. This is a small economic revolution that can really be seen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In addition to the long-term competitiveness of the site, we need to focus on the labour market in the short term. The crisis has brought considerable cuts not only to businesses, but also to many workers. As of September 2020, 704,000 people were unemployed or in short-term employment in Austria. Even though these numbers have fallen significantly in the summer, they are far too high, because behind each of these figures individual fates hide, and that means every and every unemployed person is one or one too much. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We cannot undo this crisis, not even in the labour market, but we can stand up against its effects with all our strength. In total, we will therefore make more than 29 billion euros available for work and employment this year and next year, including short work. Never before has so much money been made available for this area in Austria. I am very proud of this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Some of the measures in this regard are as follows: The apprenticeship bonus was introduced to support teaching firms. This year and next year, 54.5 million euros are available. With the one-time payment of 450 euros to unemployed persons, we have enabled immediate crisis support and achieved a temporary increase in emergency aid to the level of unemployment benefit. We will make more than 8 billion euros available for the corona short work this year and next year. For the implementation of a work foundation for the qualification of up to 100 000 unemployed persons as well as for the educational bonus, we will provide 700 million euros until 2022. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Next year, we will increase the resources for the compensation tax fund for the inclusion of people with disabilities in the labour market by EUR 40 million, and we will increase staff by 350 people at the AMS. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, with these decisions, we are not only securing thousands of jobs in the crisis, we are also creating new prospects for the post-war period. I am very pleased that this federal government has succeeded in creating a really large labour market policy throw, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Dear Members of the House! It is clear, of course, that these economic and aid measures, as well as the difficult economic environment, have a significant impact on the budget. Compared to the same period of the previous year, deposits fell by 7.7 billion euros at the end of September. At the same time, the above-mentioned aid for health, jobs and businesses has also increased expenditure by around EUR 9 billion at the end of September. For 2020, we expect an administrative deficit in the Federal Budget of around 28.5 billion euros. In 2021, payments of 97.4 billion euros are planned and deposits amounting to 76.4 billion euros, resulting in an administrative deficit of 21 billion euros. We will clearly exceed the Maastricht deficit limits of 3 per cent of GDP with around 9.5% deficit this year, and we expect a general government Maastricht deficit of 6.3 per cent and 3.5 per cent for 2021 and 2022. By 2022 we now assume a debt ratio of 85 percent of the gross domestic product, and from 2023 we want to go down again with the debt and the way towards fiscal normality. Ladies and gentlemen! As difficult as this path may be in budgetary terms, I am convinced that it is the right one. 75 years ago Leopold Figl said in his famous Christmas address: I beg you: Believe in this Austria! – Based on that, I allow myself to say today [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hafenecker]] I believe in the diligence of Austrian workers and the creativity and performance of local companies. I believe that we can come through this crisis together with discipline, cohesion and courage. I know the way to growth is possible. We must be prepared to make temporary debts. But for us it was always clear: A budget surplus is not a self-evident, it is the provision for the crises of the future, and we have done that right. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The magic word in the debt we're making now is: temporary. Our long-term goal must remain, of course, to keep the state budget in order and not to finance our prosperity at the expense of our children. If someone says, Finally, the ÖVP also discovered Keynes!, I'll tell you: Of course Keynes is right – but only in the short term! [[Rejoicing and interlocutors with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In a situation like now, to say: As the state cannot intervene, the market must be self-regulated!, the opposite would be of social market economy, for Hayek is right in the long term. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] More State stabilises the economy in the short term, but prevents necessary adjustments to new challenges in the medium term and paralyses growth dynamics in the long term. [[Renewal cheerfulness and intermediate calls for representatives of SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] – If you do not agree, you will be able to make this known in your speech, Mr President. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Exactly!]] [[Abg. Lightness: That was now...!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Therefore, a truth from before the crisis persists even after this crisis: In the long term, too much intervention and too high public debt are damaging to a society. – Those who deny this lie to themselves and rob subsequent generations of the future, for such culprits, ladies and gentlemen, are very much like the climate liars, very similar Both live at the expense of the future and leave the next generation burned earth. [[Interlocutory call from Mr Amesbauer]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] We do not do both, and we do so with this budget, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Weak speech!]] [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of this speech I said: We can provide this answer to the crisis. This is seen by looking at the capital markets, because despite the current crisis and the associated aid and economic packages, investors have long-term trust in Austria. The Republic has a very good reputation among investors. Austria and Italy continued to refinance under relatively similar conditions in 2008 – Austria with an average of 4.19 percent for the ten-year government bonds and Italy at 4.63 percent. Today, Austria is refinancing over ten years at minus 0.39 percent. This saves Austrian taxpayers around 3.3 billion euros per year compared to 2010. We are currently financing ourselves so cheaply, because the financial markets rely on a continuation of our sustainable budget price and so on. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] This Austrian bonus, ladies and gentlemen, we have worked together in recent years, and now we all benefit from it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] High house! This crisis is not the first and it will not be the last one we have to deal with in Austria, so it is important to be best equipped for these and future crises. That is why we deliberately invest in this budget regardless of Corona. This makes me exemplary to the individual resorts. Safety / Internals, UG 11: Security is a big concern to us, you know. Once again, the pandemic has clarified the importance of a functioning executive for our society. In 2021, the police budget is therefore significantly increased by EUR 215.3 million. This is an increase of 7.3 percent. This will continue the staff offensive, which will allow more than 4 300 planning posts over the entire legislative period. This is the right way for security in Austria. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We also strengthen the German army with a sustainable increase to around 2.6 billion euros per year. This includes the protection of the health and terrorists and the ABC and civil protection package. In addition, we spend 2021 and 2022 per 20 million euros on cybersecurity. There are also increases in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: In the event of humanitarian disasters, we will meet our commitment to aid on the ground. That is why we increased the funds of the foreign disaster fund by EUR 125 million by 2024. This is more than a doubling of the funds compared to the current financial framework. Furthermore, the increase in development cooperation funds will continue. UG 10, Federal Chancellery: Successful integration is important, and we are therefore providing €7.4 million for government projects in this area in 2021. A documentation centre of religiously motivated political extremism is also established. In addition, in the next financial framework, we are doubling the budget for ethnic issues. For the protection of women, 2.5 million euros are also planned per year. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In the field of justice, we set a further focus in order to significantly reduce longer procedural periods in the future and to re-establish confidence in justice. For the years 2021 to 2024, the budget of justice will be increased by a total of around 300 million euros compared to the existing federal financial framework. The corona pandemic, of course, causes significant additional costs in the health field. These include, in particular, testing and the cost of epidemics. For 2021 we therefore provide additional funds of around 700 million euros in UG 24 and UG 21. It is also provided for the purchase of a Covid-19 vaccine. Austria is a country where age is a little worth valued by older people. That is why, with an additional 1.1 billion euros by 2024, we ensure that increasing financial needs are met in an ageing society, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Family and Youth, UG 25: As a result of the current economic development, there is a fall in income from the Family Allowance Fund. Therefore, the corresponding benefits for families, children and young people are of course budgeted. As families are particularly under pressure in the current crisis, we make 90 million euros available for the family hard work in 2021, of which 50 million euros in the Federal Ministry of Family Affairs and Youth and 40 million euros in the Social Ministry. Dealing with the corona crisis has faced mainly teachers, teachers and pupils with unprecedented challenges. We therefore make 235 million euros available for digital education. The increase in the education budget in the coming years will result in the first year of 2023 exceeding the 10 billion euro mark. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The budget for science and research increases by 10 percent over the next four years. This means that universities will receive about 1.2 billion euros more on the financial framework. In the field of site-related research, additional funding for innovation programmes will become available, making significant investments in top technologies and climate-friendly industries possible. On UG 43, climate and environmental protection: Of course, climate protection is one of the priorities of this government, and this is clearly reflected in the budget. More than 1 billion euros – around 1.1 billion euros – we also make available 2021 to 2024 in addition to the current financial framework for environmental and climate action. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] This will continue the thermal rehabilitation offensive and further finance the expansion of renewable energy. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] UG 41, Mobility: The issue of mobility is of utmost importance in the context of climate protection. Therefore, in the next financial framework, we are investing additional EUR 1.4 billion in this area alone. This involves the further expansion of public transport and the financing of the first stage of expansion of the 1-2-3 air ticket. In the years 2021 to 2026, a total budget of 17.5 billion euros is guaranteed for the newly adopted ÖBB Framework Plan. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] On agriculture, forestry and broadband, UG 42: Rural areas are to be strengthened and, therefore, more resources are being made available across the entire financial framework than before. In addition, we will also provide 41.5 million euros per year for broadband development. In order to address the crisis in the forestry sector, a forest fund of 262 million euros will be set up by 2024, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Economy and digitalization, UG 40: In order to get the site out of the crisis and save businesses, the economic budget for 2021 is doubled by a plus of 602 million euros. We will also continue to promote digitalisation by 2022 with a fund of 160 million euros. We are also investing in Austria's headquarters. The additional resources can be used to implement substantial construction projects. This is about the preservation of the cultural heritage as well as the modernisation of the Tiergarten Schönbrunn and the preservation of the Mauthausen Memorial. Art, Public Service and Sport, UG 32 and UG 17: As a former minister of culture, I am of course particularly pleased that we support our commitment to art and culture with a tangible budget increase of around 150 million euros in the next federal financial framework. For example, the Festspielhäuser in Salzburg and Bregenz can also be renovated. In addition, the European Capital of Culture Bad Ischl 2024 is co-financed, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I come to the conclusion: All of Austria is marked by the corona crisis. This budget is the answer to the crisis in figures, and above all it is a budget that sets the course beyond the crisis: out of responsibility for jobs and location. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4987	I would like to thank the Federal Minister. The debate will take place tomorrow at first reading. [[10:39:20]] 2. Point Report by the Tourism Committee on the motion 900/A by Mr Karl Schmidhofer, Mr Barbara Neßler, colleagues concerning a Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the Special Funding of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SMEs Funding Act) (402 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5025	We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Schmidhofer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5053	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Chancellor! Appreciate members of the government! Mr Finanzminister! Yes, tourism has indeed slid into a deep crisis in recent months, and the Corona pandemic has put everything on the head not only in Austria but worldwide in tourism. While we were able to make relatively good use of the summer season in some regions, in some federal states, especially in the lakes, it has hit us very much, especially in the city hotels. The measures jointly developed by the Federal Government are very helpful: the acceptance of liability for tourism, for more than 7 500 businesses, for the hard work fund, for short work, for the business package with 500 million euros for the host industry, in particular the reduction of VAT to 5 percent with a view to renewal, the apprenticeship bonus, through which we have up to 3 000 euros for apprentices, the investment premium, especially for the regions outside, so that the circular economy is kept in motion so that businesses, the craft companies also have employment in the regions. Mrs. Federal Minister, that we have forced the tests in tourism companies, has of course also contributed to the fact that the summer season has been able to bring these figures. An example from my home region in Murau/Murtal: An employee was tested in a hotel as part of the test series and the operation was successfully continued. This was also important for us in Spielberg, where the Formula 1 season had its start, that was also tested in advance, which made us a safe host for this display window out into the world. The Minister for Finance has referred to the importance of tourism in Austria: Tourism contributes a share of 15 percent of GDP and a total of 16 percent of employment in Austria. These figures probably underscore the importance. The view of the winter: I should also like to thank you for the measures taken and hope that the figures will go down, because this is, of course, the prerequisite for a functioning tourism. Not least thanks to the cable car industry, which really worked constructively. It takes place in winter tourism a lot outdoors, and in the end we want to go well equipped with a strengthened tourism industry in the winter season. It is clear that further assistance is needed to this end, and for this purpose the present legislative proposal serves. I should like to thank all the political groups: We have decided unanimously in the Tourism Committee on these aids that we urgently need for congress and event tourism. In the cities we have the following problem: If no one plans anything anymore, then even if the numbers get better, nothing will happen. In order to offset this risk, we need this protective shield for the organisers so that they do not stay at the expense when something is planned. There will be a time after Corona, and I am grateful that we have taken a joint decision to bring tourism in Austria back to its mark. Thank you very much for finding such a great alliance, and especially the government, with our Minister at the head of the far-reaching measures to support the tourism industry, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5098	Mr Drozda is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5119	Good morning, Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Now we have been listening for 30 minutes to the Minister of Finance, who has explained to us why his budget is quite excellent, why it is so brilliantly balanced as its stand on a balanceboard. We have heard over and over again that there is no country that would have come through the crisis better than Austria. The truth is: That's not true! GDP fell by 6.8 percent in real terms in Austria, by 5.2 percent in Germany. The budget deficit is almost twice as high in Austria as in Germany, and inflation is also twice as high. The number of unemployed has increased by 20 percent in Germany, unfortunately by 34 percent in Austria. So what this government is doing is bending the truth until it is in turquoise socks. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now you could say: Well, he's a campaigner, part-time finance minister, laptop he doesn't have, he doesn't remember!, but then the question is: What does the learning curve at least look like, what has actually been learned in recent months? If you want to judge this seriously, you have to look at four points. A budget in the biggest crisis must make four points: First of all, it has to combat unemployment, second, to ensure survival, third, to guarantee purchasing power, particularly for small incomes, and fourth, by public investment, to absorb what constitutes a breakdown in private investment. If we look at the budget for these criteria, we have to say: If the budget has anything to do with it, unfortunately it is not enough! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is no substance for active labour market policy. They do little for the hundreds of thousands of people who have lost most of their income as EPUs or as unemployed, and massive public investment and, above all, reception solutions for businesses are missing out entirely. While Vienna, with the pride of Vienna GesmbH, shows how to take care of non-indebted companies, the question arises: What does it do, Mr. Finanzminister, to the Austrian state holding company? What's the Öbag doing? It is true that there are now more house searches than economic policy issues. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gerstl: This is incredible, really incredible!]] I come from Upper Austria, from tears, and I am old enough to remember what once happened in the industrial political heart of Austria. If you watch today inactionlessly and inadvertently how the FACC saves 650 employees, how in Steyr a hundred-year-old quality and success story of German managers is carried to the grave to compensate for their own inability, this only shows that there is little understood by economic connections in this government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'm going to let you know what it means for the 2,500 employees in Steyr emotionally when they're against every date – and that's what you're listening to! – the work is turned on. [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: on the subject, Mr Colleague.]] [[Abg. Gerstl: On the agenda! On the matter!]] We know one thing: Each of these unemployed, each of these unemployed, costs the budget EUR 30 000. The Minister of Finance is not so strong in multiplying, I make the effort to tell him: With an additional 100 000 unemployed, the budget is burdened with 3 billion euros. [[Call to the ÖVP: What does this have to do with tourism?]] A policy that does not concern itself with this question should not make budgets! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hanger: Mr Drozda, do you know the agenda? We have the debate tomorrow!]] It is the same policy that believes that it has found a particularly clever way on the issue of municipal finances and municipal funding, namely that the communities are obliged to co-finance, with aid that is now urgently needed to stimulate the economy. Roofings, sponglers, gardeners, countless farms will not get any help. This is so happening to me – because you liked to talk about Nikolaus in the election campaign – as you say: A Nikolaussackerl is only available for the children who have previously given something into the Sackerl! – That seems to me to be relatively pointless. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: On the agenda, my colleague.]] You're perfectly right, we're in tourism, with artists and artists. [[Abg. Lopatka: What have you breakfasted today? Something must have been there!]] We have listened carefully to the experts in the committee, we know about the disastrous situation. There is a complete loss of revenue in the event, in the field of art and culture. What was the reaction? – Großspurig has been announced a lifeguard, which is once again no one, because it does not provide rapid and effective assistance again. Mrs Bundesminister, you have not been able to answer the question of what an institution that is planning something in March actually gets from this fund. But this is the crucial question for the artists and the organizers. For this reason, we present today a motion for a resolution in order to ensure that the announced default damages are placed in such a way that, when a planned event is rejected, not only the organiser himself, but also the contracting partners – these are the artists, the technicians and technicians – are compensated. The agreed Gagen shall in any case be paid out. The application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Finally, perhaps – because Hayek and Keynes are so much liked to be quoted – the word of an economist you like to quote, who said something very philosophical about the question of timeliness: ‘In the long run we are all dead.’ [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[10:51]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5346	The application is properly filed and is under negotiation. Mr Angerer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5370	Mr President. Estimated government members! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Minister Blümel, perhaps in advance of the budget: You already presented us with a budget in spring, to which you yourself said it was a budget for the trash. – I’m curious how long this budget is saved from the trash bin. Now on item 2 on the SME Funding Act, which is now being discussed: It is about the event and congress economy that you want to support. This is once again a good example of the measures that the Government has set in this crisis, which have to be constantly adapted, supplemented and amended, because they are missing their effect and are, in part, completely disproportionate. First, aid measures are presented in countless press conferences – “costs what it wants” – and sometime then one insists that an entire industry is not covered by these aid measures, as we have seen in the arts and culture sector or in many EPCs. It is similar now in the event and congress economy. We now have a situation where a new rescue package is to be tied up again, with a maximum of EUR 300 million being made available. We also voted in favour of this in the Committee, because of course we believe that it is necessary to protect businesses and help them in this crisis. But what do the companies need? – Businesses need planning security. Businesses need not only material help, but also planning security. How is this to work, how to plan wisely, how to plan a congress, how to plan an event if you do not know what this government is doing tomorrow? The measures that have been taken so far are also completely unclear: What measures apply? What rules apply across the country? The traffic light was switched off on the day it was switched on. There is therefore complete uncertainty among companies and, accordingly, planning uncertainty. The big damocles that hangs over the companies, entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs in this country is the possibility of a second lockdown. Several ministers of this government have not excluded this either. What would it really mean if a second lockdown came? – I am now quoting the head of the IHS, Mr. Martin Kocher, saying: The “would be fatal for the” Austrian “Economics”. It would further increase the number of business insolvencies that will rise anyway, the government budget would be completely out of line, businesses and consumers would continue to be burdened, and the crisis would be even longer than it would already be. Now, of course, the question is always: Is that what it is? Surviving the economy more important than health? – No, of course not, the health is the highest good and is also very important to us. Martin Kocher sees this similar. But one must also see proportionality. If the number of heart attackes increases because people no longer go to the doctor because they are subject to the corona crisis, then the question of proportionality is justified. For these reasons, so that there is this planning certainty for companies, I will make a request for it. In this request from the Federal Government, I demand that it excludes a second lockdown. They know what fatal consequences this lockdown would have for the economy and, above all, for the entire Austrian population. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You write to your budget, Minister Blümel: “we are creating new prospects”. – I tell you what the prospects are if you continue: Loss of prosperity, loss of education and a split society. If you write to the cover for your budget speech “For responsibilities for jobs and location”, you can only agree to our request. Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[10:57]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5550	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mrs Neßler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5575	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Yes, to speak straight clear text: There is what the event and event industry is about to do, in view of the number of infections, to report very little, and therefore it was perfectly clear that we need to provide additional assistance for this industry. Urban tourism has already been mentioned. We know that it does not look rosy in urban tourism, Vienna lost up to 81 percent of its turnover in the summer months, from May to August. One reason for this is, of course, the many cancellations in the congress and event area. For example, more than 6 million conference participants come to Congresses in Vienna each year. This measure, which we are deciding on today, is therefore particularly important. Why? – Because the event and event industry, as well as the arts and culture industry, needs one thing above all: planning security. To the SPÖ's request, because it is formulated that we outsource the artists and cultural enterprises to non-special institutions: No, it's not. The arts and culture sector is an important part of the tourist value chain. Why do guests come to us for example to Bregenz or to Vienna or Salzburg? – A reason for this is art and culture, which is an economic engine – and I am not just talking about high culture. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In order to address a further criticism of tourism promotion measures, something that is constantly being put into the room by various institutions or organisations, such as the SPÖ's holiday voucher or voucher: I understand that this is alluring because it looks forward to a quick move. - But it's not. First: It is extremely expensive and would seem so different, above all regionally, that urban tourism would not benefit again. Secondly – and you have to say that – vouchers are simply not socially safe. For example, why does someone like Heidi Horten need a holiday voucher? – What we need are long-term solutions, long-term solutions such as the action we are taking today. And because the colleague of the FPÖ called for planning security: It is precisely with this measure that we can return a piece of planning security to the industry. For example, if we fall under the arms of the event industry, we can help several times: On the one hand, we can relieve the organizers of the corona-related cancellations. At the same time, in the uncertain situation that exists simply at present, we can almost guarantee that they can really plan the event and can do it under certain circumstances. We know that in the last half year, just as much as no one has been able to afford to invest in the blue, because no one knows what comes out in the final effect, and with this decision we are giving the industry something very important, and that is planning security, and above all we are giving the industry a future perspective with this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5626	Mrs Larive is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5647	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators and spectators! On this change of law, I can in principle maintain that planning security is absolutely sensible and welcome in these times, because if the government does not create a social security feeling with its rule and traffic lights, then at least financial security for organisers is a good signal so that events can be planned again. However, the devil is in detail as often as it is, because without specific guidelines one buys the cat in the bag. At the moment, everything is still very vague and nothing. For example, the explanatory statement does not address the specificities of the cultural sector and its events. Similarly, the responsibilities should be established in the Ministry of Culture and not in the Ministry of Agriculture and Tourism. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] At present, it looks as if only companies are entitled to claim. This does not mean that non-profit associations fall under this umbrella, and this is of course devastating especially in the cultural field, as many small cultural initiatives make numerous events of various kinds and make a huge contribution to Austrian cultural life. These initiatives would not then be included, and this must not happen. This means that the legal form cannot be decisive for whether events can be planned and contracts awarded. That doesn't make sense. It is therefore necessary to ensure that liability for the non-stopable costs also includes artist's and artist's gigs, which are measured due to a turnover participation in ticket sales. The problem in the spring was that due to Higher-Gold Clauses, most of the cancelled events have fallen around their gags, and this now threatens again in winter if they are not also secured. Similarly, the contracting partners – technicians, service providers – must be included and not just the organisers. For this reason, together with the SPÖ, we call for the cultural sector to be really taken into account and not to be treated stepmotherly as before. We demand our own point of contact in the Ministry of Culture. It must be ensured that small cultural initiatives and cultural holdings are also useful. In other words, it needs its own liability for cultural events, which take into account the reality of the cultural industry and is also located in the Federal Ministry of Art, Culture, Public Service and Sport. Although we make a request together with the SPÖ, we agree with this, but once again we want to note that the Directive must take account of the above points in the sense of cultural creators and all cultural service providers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5696	Mrs Bundesminister has been reported to speak. I can give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5717	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. From Nova Rock to the Sommernachtsgala in Grafenegg, from the radiologistic congress to the energy-saving fair, events, events, fairs, congresses are very much the social, the cultural, but above all also economic life in Austria. In particular, these organizers are particularly affected by the effects of the corona pandemic. They are – in addition to the city hotels, the travel event industry, the entire tourism industry – one of the sectors that currently lack the business base in large parts. This does not mean income for more than a year, because it was the very first sector that was heavily affected by restrictions and also, indeed, rejections. Many events were also only possible due to the summer, and especially now, due to the increasing number of infections in the industry, there is a great deal of uncertainty. We currently have very rigorous conditions, especially in the indoor area; without seats, there are even more stringent restrictions on participants. All of this threatens the existence of numerous entrepreneurs – yet all know that our top goal must be to protect people's health on the one hand and, on the other hand, to get the number of infections down massively. At this point also a warm thank you to the whole Event, art and culture sectors for their intensive participation in the prevention measures. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Value added is enormous in Austria. More than 25 000 seminars, corporate conferences, congresses with more than 1.5 million participants are held each year. It is about 2.3 million nights that the hotel industry achieves through these events. September is usually the top convention month, as far as participants are concerned, followed by October, November, and then it starts again in April, and we achieve a value-added of around 9 billion euros from these events, and secure around 144,000 jobs with these events. What we are planning here, what we are doing here, to stretch this shield over this event industry, is unique throughout Europe – no other country has such liability, and no other country, above all, wants to offer as much confidence and support as we do. We see in it a very great way to take from festivals to fairs, but also art and the cultural area under this umbrella. It is also just to start again with the planning of events that will be conceived. Many of these congresses and fairs have a preliminary period of several months. In the normal case, it often takes years for large events to be organized. Here we want to take the business, the entrepreneurs of the industry simply the risk, to minimize the risk and to offer them a perspective so that they can carry out work in their field of activity. In the future, a liability is to be held by the Austrian Hotel and Tourism Bank in the event of a rejection or restriction due to the corona pandemic. Organizers and therefore, of course, the entire value chain will be replaced by expenses that can no longer be cancelled, if fairs, events, congresses corona due to the fact that only limited events can take place, for example, capacity needs to be reduced again before the summer. The industry is extremely large. This is not an organizer, but it also depends on these events to present thousands of companies and jobs. This starts with technicians, goes through caterers and security companies to the artists who are also the main stars in many of these events. I would be very pleased, ladies and gentlemen, if, as was the case in the Committee on Tourism, we were to reach unanimous agreement here. I believe that this would be a very important signal to the entire event industry in particular, so that there will be planning security for the future. Dear ladies and gentlemen! We are facing a very difficult and challenging time with regard to tourism, the event industry, the travel industry, gastronomy. It will need new solutions and answers, but above all it will need a lot of sustainability to get out of this very difficult time. In the last few weeks and months, I have talked to incredibly many entrepreneurs who have shown wonderful heart blood and incredible passion for their actions. With this shield, we want to support exactly those who for decades have shaped the cultural, economic, social life in this country, Because they should do it again in the future. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5789	Mr Salzmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5811	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen and, above all, dear spectators in front of the televisions at home! Mr Drozda, I am very surprised at your speech on this item on the agenda. – Tourism obviously doesn't matter to you, you sit here and talk about everything else, just not tourism. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, once again shows that the SPÖ does not understand too much of the economy. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] Tourism, ladies and gentlemen, is a large and strong sector in Austria. 16 percent of employees are active in tourism, and tourism provides 15 percent of our GDP. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Mr Drozda, when you speak of MAN here from the speaker's desk, I can also say to you: Mr Matznetter is sitting in the Supervisory Board of ATB, and the question is what he has carried on there. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As a Salzburger and as an Austrian, I am very proud of what our tourism companies do over and over again, especially when looking back on a God, thank you for expecting good summer, what the holiday regions are doing. We have companies that provide their offers in the area of safe hospitality with high quality. We, as Austrians, are the country of hospitality. And what I especially like: We are not only talking about regionality and sustainability in tourism, but also about living after it. The current novel of the SME Funding Act – Mrs. Minister, you have also discussed it in detail – is for us a very important package, an event protection screen, which, above all, needs the areas in the event and congress economy, so that these events can be carried out again and can be attended. This SME funding law, ladies and gentlemen, is embedded in a series of measures which we have implemented in recent weeks and months for the tourism and leisure industry, and which are being further expanded. No other sector in Austria is currently being financially supported and promoted like tourism, ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to list a few areas: On the one hand, some 2,000 people have already been put into work through the restart bonus. The hardness fund will be extended until March 2021. The fixed cost grant will now be further developed in two targeted and more accurate stages. The test offer Safe hospitality – of which, my Ladies and gentlemen, I was able to convince myself with you in the companies, in concrete terms in Salzburg, also – there is a lot of security for our guests and safety for the companies, and this too is now with 1. The youth hostels were re-enhanced in September, and the campsites are also covered. The investment premium is very popular; 7 per cent of investment aid, 14 per cent if it includes ecologisation or digitization. And a very important point is the reduction in VAT, ladies and gentlemen: By reducing VAT to 5 per cent, we have really been able to reach out to all businesses very strongly. This is the money that actually stays in the cash register for the host and the tourism companies. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are facing an extremely challenging winter season; the Minister has mentioned this before. Our companies and our cable cars have already invested a lot in safety and have developed very, very good concepts. However, in order for this winter season to take place safely, it now takes clear measures and, above all, compliance with these measures. It takes the reason and the self-responsibilities of each of us so that we can reduce the strongly increasing number of infections again. I ask you all: Let's work together on this and let's go on the road to a good future together!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5908	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5929	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Salzmann, Culture and Tourism are very closely related. In Salzburg, for example, at the Salzburg Festival, people would probably be thirsty and starved if there were no tourism. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you are talking about tourism here, however, you already have to maintain that everything is thrown into a pot with the SME funding law. There is only one acceptance of liability and this again for many industries. Tourism alone is not taken into account. It is not yet specified exactly who gets how much, how much is paid. The directives are not yet available; you, Mrs Minister, have also confirmed in the Committee that she is still not available. The winter season begins – no one knows how. There is a request from me to you, Mrs. Minister, 15 questions about how the winter season should begin – one and a half pages of answers came back. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lightness:... she doesn't know better!]] Now back to the Promotion Act: You are right, entrepreneurs need safety, they need planning security, but we fear that the organizers in tourism will fall through the rust again. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5976	Member of the European Parliament has been called upon to speak on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5997	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear High House! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! Congresses, seminars, conferences, festivals, balls – will take me off this year –, fairs, markets, cultural events, sports events – what would life be without them? [[Abg. Anger: You have forbidden everything!]] I can't imagine a life without these events. What would tourism without these events be, what would the Austrian economy without these contributions? – They are what makes life with us beautiful, varied and also interesting. The event industry is a very important industry. Around 1,200 EPCs, SMEs generate almost €9 billion in value added. That is about 3 percent of Austrian GDP. 140 000 jobs depend on over 3% of Austrian employees. And as we have already heard, the event industry of Corona has been heavily affected; only a few events can take place since March. But we have already done a lot of things, we have already decided a lot here to support this industry as well: Short work, fixed-cost grant, also with an extension to leasing rates, especially in the event industry a huge theme, even the frustrated expenses can be covered by the fixed-cost grant, and the hardness fund has also been extended to one year. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Yeah, but it's not enough, because the industry can't plan. A good, decent merchant or a good, decent merchant currently cannot plan an event in the Januarys, February in, no congress, no festival, no frequency for the next year. That's where the event shield comes into play. It is a kind of protected space in which the industry can again plan confidently – in the future, in the long term – to develop concepts, to conclude contracts and not to take the risk of staying at the expense that one might take. It is therefore a acceptance of liability, which we decide by means of this SME Funding Act. This complements the other measures, it is an important addition to the possibility of planning again, and I very much hope that everyone here will see this and support the shield. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6040	The rapporteur was Mr Großbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6061	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Dear Seers! High house! Yes, Mr Drozda, you are here and you are imagining the Minister of Finance that he cannot remember, and you are the one who obviously cannot remember what this Federal Government has already done for the arts and culture sector. I have already reminded you in my last speech and have listed everything to you, and we have just heard what the Minister of Finance, the Secretary of State for Culture, the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Tourism have already created for instruments. We are now discussing the tenth instrument that supports art and culture! The budget service only yesterday presented a report on bridging funding for self-employed artists. Of these 90 million euros, 45 million euros are already paid. The NPO support fund has already paid 98 million euros. That is what we are looking for in Europe. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] It is also reflected in the 2021 budget, as we heard today from the Minister for Finance in his budget speech, and if I remember correctly, Mr Drozda, as Minister of Culture, you have failed to make 70 million euros for the rehabilitation of the Festival houses in Salzburg and Bregenz. This is an investment in the future and tourism, culture and tourism. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In your request, you request a contact point – so we don't only have a contact point, we have a cultural state secretary who is a dialogue partner with her team with the highest level of competence and practicality. Neither is the SVS the cultural artist or the Chamber of Commerce the entrepreneurs. [[Congratulations on Members of the ÖVP and Greens.]] The event umbrella of 300 million euros is, of course, quite essential for tourism. Congress tourism is an essential part. But when we talk about the event industry, we are of course immediately also in art and culture. How close art, culture and tourism are, play together, belong to, can hardly be seen in a country as well as in Austria. In a country, about the tourists who have come to the Federal Capital, last to say 70 percent, they come because of the culture, of course, this is a huge topic. Now, when I talk to highly successful, so far highly successful, organizers or artists, I hear: At this time I had already fixed 100 appearances for the next year, now I have two, and the swings. That is why this umbrella is intended to restore security to the event industry, security in a crisis, so that this industry can survive and continue. The shield is, by the way, intended for organisers regardless of their legal form and size, Mrs Fierce, namely for medium and small organizers, as State Secretary Mayer has already confirmed and carried out several times. The solution will be through the Austrian Hotel and Tourism Bank, a highly competent partner. A great thank you at this point to the Minister of Tourism Köstinger for her commitment to culture and tourism in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6128	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6149	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Estimated Minister! Appreciate Mrs Kultur State Secretary! The request for an amendment to the SME Funding Act is, let us say, a bit of a hateful story. You, ladies and gentlemen of the turquoise Group, said it yourself in the committee last Thursday: It's not quite mature, it's a little wacky. And the best sentence was: We're building this law on the green meadow. – I’ve never heard that before – but should be like that. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we definitely need an aid package in the areas of tourism, leisure and events – without a doubt! There will certainly be no fixed plans in these areas. But it definitely also needs an explicit help package in the field of art and culture – art and culture have already been greatly pushed aside. Mr Führer, you mentioned it correctly: Why is the art and culture scene located in this area, where the Minister of Agriculture will make the commitments and pay out the grants? [[Federal Minister Köstinger: Tourism!]] My question as to whether the money will arrive at the cultural companies is, as I believe, also allowed me to ask as mayor. Finally, it goes down to the smallest unit – up to the communities – and finally we too, the 2 095 communities, will stand there again and will not receive any promotions. Dear Mrs Klubobfrau, Mrs Sigrid Maurer – unfortunately she is not present right now, so I ask the Green Club –: You have, of course, also agreed to this draft law in committee. What do you say about the fact that in point 6, in addition to § 10 by Abs. 1a, it says that, in connection with the funding measures, the agreement with the Federal Minister for Art and Culture must be reached? Don't you have a Secretary of State Andrea Mayer, a very dedicated Secretary of State? Once before, a State Secretary was exchanged – unfortunately God, I believe, innocent – because she has left the artists on the dark stage – supposedly! This is probably also related to why this request was dealt with in the Tourism Committee. The allocation of funds, the grant commitments remain a hundred percent in the hands of Mrs Minister for Agriculture Köstinger. Why, ladies and gentlemen, is not the competent minister of art and culture or the Secretary of State to be entrusted with it? We need an adequate, point-specific approach, not, as mentioned in the Committee, a field experiment, a pretty expensive field attempt at EUR 300 million. Ladies and gentlemen, we too will agree to this request, because we are very aware of our role and our responsibility for this sector. But we will have an eye on it and see very carefully who will get how much of the 300 million euros. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6186	Mrs Weber is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6207	Mr President. High representatives of the Federal Government on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen here in Parliament! But especially appreciated ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! Today, in the budget speech of Federal Minister Blümel, we have heard the key figures on the 2021 budget, and it has also been heard that the Federal Government will do everything possible to bring us through this crisis in 2021, as it did in the crisis in 2020. We can be really proud of living in this Austria and working with such a government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Thank you very much for that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will discuss the protection of our event and congress economy at this item on the agenda. These areas are also an essential part of a functioning tourism in Austria. Many visitors come to Austria only because of these events, get to know and appreciate Austria on this occasion, and the gastronomy is another area that benefits greatly from it. We will also discuss the next agenda item on gastronomy, which needs to be supported and further promoted. Every event that is organized and conducted has the gastronomy as a accompanying area. As a result, the gastronomy – and all the people who have their jobs in it – benefits more or less from each event, and thus these 300 million euros, which we have planned for this shield, are a very well-designed money to be able to look positively into the future. One thing is also quite clear: Gastronomy is an essential component in our country Austria and is one of our special features. A lot of people We are coming to appreciate this kind of culinary experience that is being lived with us, and it is important to support it. As a result, this lifeguard or protective shield is an important contribution to the event industry, which thus acquires security. In this sense, I would like to join Federal Minister Blümel thank you very much for providing these 300 million euros, for taking up the events again and for being a country marked by a variety of events and will continue to be marked. – In this sense: Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6270	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Before I get to the voting process, I ask the club members if we can vote. - That's the case. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. First, we shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 402 of the supplements. I would ask the ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft law to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees in third reading, I ask for a sign. – This too is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Drozda, Mr Brandstötter, Mr Dankert, on 'Real aid for cultural operators'. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Angerer, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Finally exclude two lockdowns – create planning security for the economy'. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is also the minority, rejected. [[11:32:24]] 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Tourism on Amendment 640/A(E) by Mrs Petra Fürderwinkler, colleagues, on the promotion of the development of gastronomy and hotels in rural areas (403 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6354	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Vorswinkler is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I can give her the word. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6386	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! My request to promote the development of gastronomy and hotels in rural areas is to strengthen cohesion, to ensure cooperation, to ensure sustainability in order to secure jobs, in each individual subcontractor. It is about strengthening each region, i.e. targeted support. Regional high-quality agriculture and gastronomy depend on each other. It can be used to help all those affected in a sustainable manner. Small and medium-sized enterprises in the gastronomy and hotel industry are the heart of every region, each inn is a social center. – That is exactly what needs to be promoted, and that is what I am proposing. Unfortunately, he was rejected in the committee and tabled an amendment which is very nebulos and in which much is not described in concrete terms. The House of Commons is also addressed, but what is to be done about it is not defined again. In addition, this proposal also mentions Austria's advertising, for which 40 million euros are already spent this year, therefore my question: Is there anything else to spend on this event industry? Is there anything else for advertising and marketing, and does not matter again with the hosts and the gastronomy? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you are already making an amendment, please take into account the needs of the industry! We have heard from the experts in the committee about how it is going. There are proposals from the union, from the ÖHT and so on. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6422	Member of the Upper Nosterer has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6444	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! Again and again the demand and the following questions arise: Tourism must be planned for the winter season! What is Christmas going on, what is going on about New Year or January and February? [[Abg. Worm: Good question!]] The answer from this Federal Government is always quite clear. [[Abg. Worm: Good question...!]] I myself – as a host and hoteler – also ask myself the question, and I also know how it is planned, because that is what Mr Health Minister, the responsible ministries and the Federal Minister for Tourism tell us every day: We need to get down with the corona numbers so that there is no travel warning for Austria! Every host and colleague I've been calling to or talking to when I'm going somewhere, tells me the same thing again and again: What does this government do to get down the numbers that winter tourism is going on again? – Everything they want, only no more fixed locks; we all know that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I now address the responsibility of the opposition parties, particularly the responsibility of the Freedom Party, which always says, no matter what action is taken by this government: [[New call for tender of the Abg. Worm]] It's all stupid! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] You can't lock at 11 o'clock, because you have a sales break and put on a mask, yes, you can't do that because you don't get air! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] – I wonder how a painter and a doctor do that which always has to wear the masks professionally. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] People, we know what situation we are in, and we also know that certain measures have to be taken! Or do you really want what happens around our borders again? If you hear a little radio or read paper, you'll know: Holland locks completely to, in the Czech Republic: the locals completely to, the food can only be taken with you on the street sale. You know what is happening in Spain, Madrid; 6,000 military personnel are sent there to get all of this under control so that you can get the numbers down. Why do you want to get the numbers down? – For two very simple reasons: so that one can survive this crisis in the health and economic sphere. This requires certain measures, and the measures can only be effective if everyone follows them, and not if people are lifted up by certain political parties, as even now before the Vienna election a letter has gone out of the Freedom Party, that one has all this to ignore and everything is a nonsense. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I'm telling you very honestly: That's not a sense of responsibility! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Today, we have heard from our Minister of Finance the budget speech – who has listened –: super, perfectly set up to cope properly with the crisis and shape the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm]] The package that our Mrs. Federal Minister for Tourism, Elisabeth Köstinger, has put on foot with her entire team, brings tourism about this crisis. I'm just saying, Fees, loans, bridging loans in the amount of one quarter of annual turnover, VAT reduction, short-time work, fixed-cost grant. – Anyone who knows a little internationally knows that this is clearly the best package for the tourism industry, which was tied here in Austria under the leadership of our Mrs. Federal Minister for Tourism. It is already being thought of in this crisis in the future. It has already been taxed by rural gastronomy, and today we hopefully decide unanimously on this request that we will work out something that will help us in the field of rural gastronomy and in the accommodation area in the future. That inhibits the land guest's death – I'm in the country at home, I know what I'm talking about. We'll work out a proper package. I say: When a crisis comes, we can only handle it properly – as in every family – if we stand together and do not divide. I ask you to do that! You can do politics again when it's over, and now it's called standing together!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6584	Member of the Worm has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6605	Mr President. High house! Fathers. Yes, the remaining rest of the Federal Government, as usual, offers a picture of the pity and panic. Also a sign: All the others have already left the government bank. The fact that there is hardly anyone else also shows the importance that this government clearly attaches to gastronomy and tourism. You should know before, how relevant and important tourism and gastronomy in Austria are to this government. That's a sign you're giving out here, and it's very much seen outside. Maybe we first come to the gastronomy: Col. Obernosterer, you know it very well, in recent years the classical gastronomy – the inn, the inn – has been continuously broken: Allergensverordnung, Enrollment of registers, absolute ban on smoking. The last few years that have survived, you have finally broken down and died with your actions. That's the truth, Obernoster, that's the truth! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Obernoster: This is not the truth!]] Some examples: If you're on your way, if you're still going to the gastronomy – many people don't do it at all – you'll be in the western federal states at 10 o'clock. So, if anyone has come to this brain-rending idea, Mr President, if there is a call for an order, he has to be seen in the gastronomy and explain it to someone. How do you want to explain this to someone: 10:00 p.m.?- Oh, my God! Now I'm gonna tell you something: That's being controlled by the police, leg-hard! [[Abg. Obernoster: Right!]] That means, at 10 p.m., everyone must have left the place like a hurry. As it is very, very many, to go anywhere at all – perfectly understandable, perfectly understandable! That is to say, you are taking measures with which you are far, far beyond the goal and which have no effect either. What has changed in the West since the opening of the break at 10 p.m.? - Nothing. [[Abg. Loacker: Go to Switzerland!]] - That's right, they're going to Switzerland. People keep celebrating at home, especially the boys – a completely non-practicable solution. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] Another topic: You have to register in the gastronomy now – very nice. Apart from the fact that some of Sebastian's jokes write short and similar, there are also those cases where data protection is not, of course, respected. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light snow]] That means, the papers lie around somewhere, don't bring anything at all – and, and, and. Now I come to tourism: I am not surprised that no one from the ÖVP from Tyrol or Salzburg is standing at the speaker's desk to explain this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] – Yes, a relevant one, a relevant one! The idea you had was to go down to the country, so that in December tourism might start again. This idea you have will not work. The Germans will strengthen the measures once again with five days of quarantine. That is, I do not wish anyone who has a tourism company, the coming winter, because that will be a disaster, and for this you are responsible by the ÖVP, yours by the ÖVP and no one else, Mr Obernosterer! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Upper Noster]] [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] You can't blame anyone. You can't blame anyone. Entrepreneurs and, above all, employees know this. We get 4 500 new unemployed every week, now again, and every week increases and increases this number. That's not a miracle either. What is to happen other than that businesses are in bankruptcy and employees are losing their jobs!Unknown term type: "%s".? In Vienna, the hotel industry is gradually shutting down the hotels. Also, my hotel – just a small example – is closed by the end of October. It's dead! It's dead, Mr. Obernosterer, and that's the fault of the ÖVP. At the end – very important – I put in the following motion for a resolution, and I would like the ÖVP to go there once and show a little reason: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] [[11:45]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6798	The application shall be duly submitted, duly supported and shall be part of the negotiation. Mrs Neßler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6823	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Dear Seers! Ladies and gentlemen! At the last item on the agenda on tourism, there was a lot of talk about the economic situation, also about my previous speakers, but one must not hide, and that is the social side of it. Dear ladies and gentlemen, can you remember the evenings, perhaps a few years ago, when you thought that the world was at your feet, on non-ending nights when you felt that everything was really possible, on nights in which you have experienced stories that you might like to think back years later or about which you would like to talk to someone years later – perhaps not necessarily with the children? [[Call the SPÖ:Interesting speech!]] Imagine, for example, starting a new study at 19, 20 years of age – a new adventure, a new city – but you don't know so many people there! Now you have the situation that you have online learning, and it's very difficult to get to know people there, quite different from when you went to study and once left your day of study at a festival. There is, of course, a lack of night gastronomy, because these are places where you meet, where you may meet where you make friends that last for a lifetime, or where perhaps one or the other has even met the partner or the partner. Since we cannot do much because of the increasing number of infections in this situation, it is important that we know what the situation means for young people. Mr Wurm, you know that the registration requirement and the pre-arranged suspension period are not federal decisions, because you are politicians longer than I am. It is not long ago, in May we experienced what it means to have our innhouses, our locals, and how much we lack. The SPÖ application: Yes, the expansion of the gastronomy and so on is important, but first we have to start a step before that, and that's the gastronomy dying. We have to deal with this problem, because the inn dying is not a new phenomenon, but the phenomenon of the inn death there was already before the Covid crisis. To this end, a statement from my parents has been remembered: I asked them once if our inn really did get away with the working hours and the working hours. They said something very nice, they said: It's not about that! What if we didn't have our inn anymore if people in the village had no more opportunity to meet? And that's the point. A local is not just a local, a local is quality of life, is encounter, employerIn, regional infrastructure. [[Abg. Worm: Barbara, then she doesn't break the gastronomy!]] Guest houses, locals are places where you come together, and therefore I always say whether it is a small village or a large city, if our locals are missing, then the social fabric lacks a central part that cannot be replaced. [[Abg. Worm: Yes! Yes! Yes!]] [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Worm.]] [[Abg. Worm: And now, Barbara, and now?]] And if you take away a village or a street the inn that takes away locals, you take away a piece of community. I am very pleased that we have now taken a first step in this proposal. [[Abg. Worm: The Greens are breaking the gastronomy, Barbara! You're breaking the gastronomy!]] – Peter, I cordially invite you to put together that we will take action, because we will not be able to end the inn from today to tomorrow, that is clear, that will require a repertoire of measures. [[Abg. Worm: But you will speed it up!]] I really invite you, all the parties, to continue working on it, and I am pleased that we have taken a first step with this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6929	Mr Oberrauner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6950	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) College of Government! High house! Appreciate Seers and Seers at Home! We have heard that it is about tourism in rural areas. In this context, we would also like to mention that 89 percent of the craftsmen and the local farmers also live from this sector and one must take it into account at this time. Mr Obernosterer speaks of measures. He is an excellent touristist, has an excellent structure and knows what he is talking about. Unfortunately, however, the measures you are talking about are not visible. There are measures that are unclear, confusion has widened, no one knows what to do or what to do. But a tourist depends on the season, he must know what he has to do or not to do in winter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Upper Noster]] There's a lot of talk about it, it rarely matters, we don't have clear rules. It's about a few points, it's about five points that everyone understands. [[Abg. Obernoster: Three! Three!]] It's not about ten speeches in which we say we're great and everything's fine. I really want to stress that eight months have passed in the Corona crisis and political downtime will not save the tourister the season. We need clear framework conditions, clear and understandable rules, we need above all speed – urgently! – and we need liquidity on measures that are easy to identify. And we need that now, not tomorrow or the day after. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Bitch.]] As the Minister of Finance is so praised for his great budget, I would like to say again: Businesses and employees in tourism – as in general – are your lenders. They paid their taxes, they worked hard every day and took the full risk, and this money was entrusted to the Ministry and the Minister. I must say, however, that this confidence must also be met, and I would suggest: with more state policy and less party policy, with knowledge, expertise and implementation instead of marketing, with empathy and empathy, a bit of real policy and perhaps a bit of leadership in the crisis. That would be a good approach, if you could inspire the people, because it has chosen you and given you the confidence. We would like to support you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7002	Mr Stammler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7023	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Worm, if you believe that a company that orders goods by name and credit card every day via Amazon and sends them to its own address has a problem in order to register for the protection of your own health in the inn, then you best order the pizza home and try to do so without giving your address. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] There is no more favourable but no better economic package for rural areas than the strengthening and promoting of regional economic cycles. To keep regional value added in a region, to keep every single euro running between the sectors in circulation several times: That is exactly the model that Austria has made after 1945 into what it is today. [[Abg. Worm: That's what's breaking you right now!]] I do not believe in Hayek's theory, which has spoken of the divine, superlative economic power, I believe in the individualists out there, who, through SMEs, by means of gastronomy and by means of rural family farms, form a living country. [[Congratulations on representatives of the SPÖ]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Just the gastronomy and the hotel industry live on the cultural landscape and the identity of a region. [[Abg. Worm: What does that have to do with the identity?]] The common economy also means understanding the needs of the opposite, and also talking to each other. The Dorfwirtshaus is the communication room in bad shape, which is the Facebook and Twitter of the rural area. [[Abg. Worm: These are all just lip confessions!]] Tensions that arise between agriculture and tourism can best be resolved if one benefits from each other. These tensions exist, I am a farmer myself and I know exactly how it leads to difficulties when the dung scatter passes over the hotel's breakfast terrace, as it leads to problems when tourists cross pastures and pasture herds, and how it leads to problems when mountain bikers pass through the woods. This request leads to a better understanding and can nevertheless only be a first step. We now change the place and go to Traunkirchen am Traunsee, where a local businessman tries to restore to life a guest house with connected house slaughter, and at borders, although the whole village including the mayor is working for it, so that the inn, which is the only inn in the village, can lock up again. Why does he hit borders? - Because there's a second-dwelling homeowner blocking everything. This concerns spatial planning. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] We still have a lot to do, but I'm looking forward to the first step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7113	Mr Schmiedlechner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7135	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Appreciate listeners and listeners! Before the crisis, tourism and the leisure industry generated up to 16 percent of GDP. More than 300,000 people were employed in tourism. It was one of the sectors in which there were always job vacancies and jobs. With your policy of fear, hysteria and panic, you have destroyed it. You have tested the second wave, and with it you are endangering thousands of jobs! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A large part of these jobs – you have to say almost: was – are located in rural areas. Tourism and agriculture are closely linked, bring value added to the regions and keep rural life active. We are known worldwide for our economic culture, hospitality and the great products that are offered there. Especially the gastronomy and the hotel industry urgently need our support. The forecasts for the winter season are terrifying: A decrease of up to 60 percent is expected. Ladies and gentlemen! We are required to save our gastronomy. Regionality is what customers want. Regionality is what holds value added in the country. Regionality is what ensures the preservation of small and smallest farms in the country. We must support the hospitality and hotel industry as a strong partner of agriculture in this crisis. They are all culprits in this crisis and must not be left alone. A targeted promotion is a command of the hour and must be implemented. They promised: ‘cost what it wants’; They promised: No one's left behind. – It remains to be hoped that you will not forget your promises again.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7181	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Before we get to the voting process, I ask if we can start. - Thank you. We shall now proceed to the votes. First of all, I would like to put to the vote the request made by the Committee on Tourism to take note of its report 403 of the additions to the motion for a resolution 640/A(E). I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen to give their consent to this. – This is the majority, accepted. We shall also vote on the resolution on the Committee's report 403 of the Supplements on'measures against house dying, especially in rural regions'. Whoever agrees to this resolution, I can ask him to stand up. – This is the majority, accepted. [[95/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Worm, fellow Members, on the end of the hourly period and compensation for the loss of revenue for gastronomy and tourism. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. [[12:00:14]] 4. Point Report of the Federal Government's External Policy Committee on the 2019 Foreign and European Policy Report (III-150/373, D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7258	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Lopatka is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I can give him the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7286	Mr President. My dear ministers! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The 2019 foreign and European policy report shows how comprehensive the foreign policy commitment of Austria is. On 260 pages, a detailed overview of what Austria is doing within the European Union is given of the role Austria plays. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] The second major area is addressed by the initiatives we are making multilaterally, especially within the United Nations, and a third major point of this report is Austria's developmental commitment. I would particularly like to focus on two points which were always important to us or which concern us very much. One is that Austria has a tradition when it comes to EU enlargement, especially as regards south-eastern Europe as regards Western Balkans. Slovenia and Croatia from the former Yugoslavia are now strong partners in the European Union, but others are only on their way to the European Union. In order to ensure stability in south-eastern Europe, it is very important to us that a credible accession perspective remains for these six candidates in the Western Balkans. In the report 2019, we were still in a position in which we made a strong effort to start the accession negotiations with Northern Macedonia and Albania. In the meantime, we are one step further, which is also quite, very important. However, the development of another candidate is different, namely Turkey. The situation has increasingly deteriorated, and the position that Austria is now taking relatively long is becoming more and more apparent than the right one. Turkey has moved away from the European Union and is therefore also far from being able to join this European Union. Ankara is increasingly pursuing a policy that is intensifying crises in the region, a policy that is actually focused on crises. This started in 2016 with the invasion in Syria, also found a continuation in Turkey's action against the large Kurdish minority. In 2018, Turkey was invaded in Afrin – which has also occupied our house – and 160,000 Kurds have been forced to flee. There will also be a joint motion for a resolution today, which will introduce the Greens on another item on the agenda, in which, in my opinion, we are rightly concerned with this situation and are approaching the Federal Government to take appropriate initiatives, especially at European level. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Turkey then sent militias to Libya in January 2020, and now, in the last two weeks, Turkey has intervened very massively on the side of Azerbaijan in the conflict around Bergkarabach. Within 14 days more than 600 deaths were officially reported there. In addition, Turkey is also expressing entirely massive threats against the two EU Member States Cyprus and Greece. However, it not only expresses threats, but also sends ships against international law to this region. That's why I'm saying: Those who act in this way have no place in the European Union – neither today nor tomorrow. I think we should say that quite clearly on the part of the Austrian Parliament. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] However, I should like to make a concrete motion for a resolution - you must be patient, this is a slightly longer motion for a resolution - to a crisis which has now been intensified by Turkey: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to give your assent to this motion for a resolution. Vienna would be a very important place, as in other negotiations, in order to reach a peaceful solution. If you agree to this request, this would also be a strong signal from our Parliament. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[12:08]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7469	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Pamela Rendi-Wagner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7493	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If we are discussing the foreign policy report, it is important to say thank you very much to the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in recent months, from my side to the officials! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] The debate on the foreign policy report also gives Parliamentarians the opportunity to discuss foreign policy more in principle and to draw a little balance from the last months and last year. I would like to make three very specific points on which I believe that there should be more effort on our part. These three points explain in particular where the right and reality of Austrian foreign policy are somewhat different. On point one, I come to an important issue: combating poverty. The fight against poverty is important in your government programme, Mr Foreign Minister. You have declared the fight against poverty your goal for this legislative period, and, Mr Foreign Minister, you have just spoken on the occasion of the 75. United Nations anniversary in Geneva once again underlined. They said poverty and the fight against poverty, these are the major international challenges. – I give you absolutely right in terms of content, because less poverty means more stability, means more peace, means more prosperity for society in our country and internationally. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, if we are both so united, the contribution of Austria should be urgently increased. The fact that Austria does not achieve the internationally agreed objective – you know the target of 0.7 percent of the gross domestic product – is currently even below the OECD average is unacceptable for a wealthy country such as Austria. There must finally follow the words of the Federal Government and your government programme, your own goals, actions, all the more so than we know from studies that there are more and more children suffering from poverty and poverty worldwide. Corona has worsened and dramatized this situation and these figures in recent months. There are 1.2 billion children living in poverty worldwide. This brings me to my second point, namely the point of multilateralism. On the one hand, the Federal Government also acknowledges this – and I know it personally from the many meetings of the Foreign Policy Committee in which You always emphasize this – and acknowledge multilateralism and international cooperation on the other hand. But if this confession of yours and also the whole turquoise-green federal government is not actively filled with life, then it is no longer an empty sleeve, then it is no longer an empty promise, because especially now in the fight against Corona, it is very obvious to all of us that we have a lack of international cooperation. UN Secretary-General Guterres has rightly said in his analysis that the world is currently missing in this Corona crisis in preparation, cooperation, unity and solidarity. – Yes, the Austrian Federal Government could also rely more on international cooperation, no, could not, but would have to rely more on international cooperation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am also referring to the fact that international warnings are taken seriously in good time, for example those on 4 May. ==References====External links==* Official website However, the past months have also shown that the Federal Chancellor of Austria is bringing Austria into an increasingly isolated position within the European Union. In my view, this is a worrying development. I am thinking of the veto threats against the EU budget a few months ago, but also of the resistance to the EU's reconstruction funds in a historically unique corona crisis. I have also been given the impression in recent months that – we call it atmospheric disturbances – these atmospheric disturbances between Austria or the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany Angela Merkel could increasingly become a disadvantage for Austria. Yes, there are many issues which are supposed to be national, but on which we depend on other partners, international, European partners. This applies both to the management of the health crisis, Mr Foreign Minister, as well as to the economic and employment sectors. Not only does it require a good internal policy, but it also needs a proactive, strong foreign policy with a clear commitment to international, European partnerships, and not isolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7563	Next speaker: Mr Axel Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7584	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Thank you very much for the foreign and European policy report on 2019. In the past, we liberals have always insisted that reporting goes faster – the time span was quite good this time. Thank you very much for the extensive report. Mr Rendi-Wagner just mentioned: This report also provides an opportunity to discuss and discuss basics on foreign policy, and I would like to do so. My colleague, Mr Rendi-Wagner, and I have not previously agreed on our speeches, she has also mentioned the concept of multilateralism and called for more multilateralism, so has outlined the SPÖ's position in this regard. I can see that the position of the Freedom Party is a completely different one, a more contradictory one. Multilateralism has now become the fashion word of the last months. I try to establish here a connex to deal with the corona pandemic in so far as one can quite rightly ask the question: Who benefits from this pandemic or from dealing with the pandemic? It is undisputed, it is currently useful – and this also shows all survey values – to the rulers, no matter in which country, whether left government, legal government or cetera. And my hypothesis is also that the corona pandemic is now being used worldwide to revitalize supranational organizations, multilateral processes and organizations that have already given up a sad existence in the sense of failure. Guterres has been mentioned. In his speech, the UN Secretary-General said: ‘Multiliteralism after COVID-19: What child of UN do we need at the 75th anniversary?" If you look through this speech, the short version is as follows: We need a stronger UN, we need more power for the UN in particular, we need more money, more skills for the UN. These are the demands. – We reject that. We liberals don't want that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The important players should be: NGOs, foundations, the so-called civil society – whatever that is – not the states. The national states are no longer present in the ideas and plans of Mr Guterres de facto. – The We don't want to. We believe that the most important players must continue to be international players with their elected parliaments and governments and, so to speak, the interests of the population, of the nation states, of the Austrian population, of the people of Austria, of the economy as well as of the international community. A second multilateral, supranational organisation is, of course, the European Union. There, too, the Freedom Party has a unique feature in this respect, in so far as we have access to it other than all other parties who say: The competences, money, the power of the European Union still need to be increased, only the European Union is able to solve the problems in Europe. We have seen in recent months and years that the European Union is absolutely unable to solve the problems in Europe, and we reject all tendencies towards a European central state. That is to say: The abolition of the national states and therefore de facto the abolition of the Republic of Austria. We don't want that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We do not want it either because these are far-reaching decisions. There is also foreign policy as far as domestic policy is concerned, as if decisions at such supranational levels have a direct impact on, for example, the guest house in Carinthia, on which individual people have a direct impact. That is too far away from us from man, that is too far away from us from the citizens, because the one side is the power, the money, the competences and the other is the corresponding responsibility. Where's the responsibility? - It's not tangible. The responsibility should be close to the citizen, i.e. to the state governments, the Federal Government and Parliament in Austria. The EU has completely failed in migration policy, and we will be able to speak on this subject in future. She has completely failed, she is entitled to: Dublin II is not worth the paper, it is simply not respected. The Maastricht criteria are not worth the paper. Of course, the EU has a confidence problem if it does not comply with its own rules. The EU has always promised: We're not a debt union. Now we have 750 billion euros of debt that the Commission has received, and the economical four have one purpose: that the debt is not 500 billion euros, but 750 billion euros. Who's to pay for this? Our children and children. These are decisions that are being made over the heads of our citizens. We do not want to do that – and I would like to close it or make the Connex to Corona – because the question is: Cui bono? Wolfgang Schäuble, everyone known, referred to the Corona crisis on 21 January. ==References====External links== I quote: "Resistance to change is reduced in the crisis. We can now achieve the Economic and Financial Union, which we have not achieved so far politically". This is a Schäuble quote, we don't want it. – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7666	Next speaker: Mrs Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7688	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The world is not silent. In the 2019 foreign policy report, all the complex, major challenges become visible. One thing before: These have not been eliminated, they have not become less, on the contrary, at the moment old conflicts are breaking up. There is a crisis caused by an explosion in Beirut, there is an explosion of violence in Belarus, the upcoming elections in the USA are currently bringing the whole world to a wave, and the pandemic has certainly also many places, such as Brazil, that not only partially collapses the health system, but also presents us with new challenges internationally. In the same way, European solidarity is undoubtedly put to the test. In Turkey, there is currently the largest wave of arrests of opposition and a departure – we have already heard this today – from the efforts of the European Union. In Iran, people continue to be executed publicly only because of their political or sexual orientation. Saudi Arabia fines thousands of people in prison for “complete freedom of expression” – under quotation marks – and Russia is currently on the prange, because it seems that the secret services are responsible for the poison attack on Nawalny. China, too, we know, has put millions of citizens in forced and re-education camps and is also in the process of destroying the contractually guaranteed democratic freedoms of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Zone. At the same time, China is the second largest trading partner in the European Union, which makes the matter no less complex. One might think that the list was endless. It leaves the impression as if you were powerless due to this complexity. But I think the opposite is the case: We can't just do something, we have to do something! The more serious the crises are, the more we need to focus on Austria's multilateral commitment. For example, Austria's multilateral commitment can be attached to the General Assembly of the United Nations, to international issues such as disarmament, to OSCE peace missions, to human rights issues or also to election observations, to the Council of Europe or to OECD. Austria is well known not only as a headquarters of many international organisations, Austria also has the Presidency of the UN Human Rights Council and is increasingly relying on international power in the field of climate protection, energy issues or crisis management. This international power definitely needs it in a current, serious, profound and very complex conflict. As we have already heard today, there is a request from the government parties concerning “the current situation in the Bergkarabach region”. In particular, the civilian population suffers enormously from this conflict, from the fights that are taking place there. There are disturbing reports of attacks on villages and cities as well as the destruction of civil infrastructure – schools, hospitals – by heavy artillery. Thousands of people had already fled the region. We know that if the situation does not improve there, even more people will be forced to flee. I am very pleased that we are taking a concrete step here today with this request and calling on you, Mr Foreign Minister, to take concrete steps. In its neutral role, Austria has already been able to successfully offer the neutral space for negotiations on a ceasefire between Armenia and Azerbaijan, and now we should stick to it. The chancellor has also announced that there is this offer. This is correct and important, and it is therefore all the more gratifying that it has succeeded in submitting this current proposal here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7738	Next speaker: Mr Helmut Brandstätter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7759	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I actually wanted to give a very optimistic, perhaps even happy talk about Europe today, because I got this book from Nini Tsiklauri: “Let’s fight for Europe – with courage and love for a strong EU”. [[The speaker keeps this book up-to-date.]] Some people here might know them. She is a great young woman who had to flee Georgia twice because there is war. She has not lost courage, quite the contrary, she says from her experience: We must fight for a united Europe, and that is why they are very good. But then I – that is not your fault, Federal Minister – was in the EU's main committee. What was there? – Mr Leichtfried has very quickly analysed it: There the Federal Chancellor read the agenda of the forthcoming EU Council, and then he played the remaining one and a half hours with his cell phone. This is the attitude of the ÖVP and the Federal Chancellor to Europe. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Such a fool!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] – Now you have to yell at it, I'm already clear, but I'm telling you something: What we are watching – I will talk about it later – has a lot to do with foreign policy. There is a tendency everywhere to weaken democracy and especially parliaments and to build authoritarian systems. [[Abg. Steger: Example EU!]] This is a weakening of parliamentarianism! And worse. I watched "ZIB 2" last night. Unfortunately, Mr President Sobotka is not here now, but you can do it to him. What he did there was a degradation of parliamentarianism. [[I would like to appeal to Mr Neos and Mr SPÖ, as well as to the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Mr Gerstl, Mr Höfinger and Mr Prinz.]] The Austrian President of Parliament has put an end to parliamentarianism. He used inconceivable formulations, I have to read this to you, unfortunately. [[Call the ÖVP:Patzer!]] [[Abg. Prince: Father!]] [[Abg. Hoefinger: Exactly!]] [[Abg. Gerstl: Krisper and Krainer are responsible for this!]] – Listening You're on: The united opposition parties ignore the law. – An inconceivable accusation! [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Have they made!]] He's been talking about permanent chaos, he's been talking about being mubbed. [[Abg. Gerstl: Again something published from the confidential session! That was the colleague Krisper!]] [[Call the NEOS:Gerstl, listen!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we all know: Sobotka is a haferl, yes, Mr Sobotka is a haferl. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gerstl: Order call! “Häferl”!]] I will therefore reply quite quietly, I will tell him quite quietly: Mr President, I expect you to defend parliamentaryism first and, secondly, to draw your attention to how much has already been achieved by the Ibiza Committee. [[Abg. Wöginger:... Chairmanship!]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Yes, exactly!]] We know that there was this 2-1 agreement for the occupation of Supervisory Boards, we know that the occupation of Thomas Schmid has been packed against each law and that of course other occupations have also been unpacked – we know that. [[Abg. Gerstl: These are allegations and suspicions!]] [[Abg. Gerstl: Call on the matter! This is not an item on the agenda.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince.]] We know that directly and indirectly donations have flown at a high level, including the NÖAAB. [[Abg. Gerstl: Abuse of the plenary rules!]] [[Abg. Wooger: The untruth is that!]] We know – someone has said this the last time – that in this country one only comes to his right and laws are only applied – listen! – if you pay for it. [[Abg. Gerstl: What does this have to do with foreign policy?]] [[Call to the ÖVP: This is an incredible assumption!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jewel beater.]] Many other things will come out. [[Call the ÖVP: That's incredible!]] Please stop making the Ibiza Committee bad! [[Call the ÖVP: It's bad!]] – Listening Come on! [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: What does this have to do with foreign policy?]] – What does that have to do with it? I can tell you what it has to do with it. [[Abg. Gerstl:... Coalition with the SPÖ!]] [[Abg. Loacker: Gerstl, put on the mask!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] It has something to do with the biography of this woman, it has something to do with the dangers to our Austria, it has something to do with Europe, so that we need a strong, democratic Europe. [[Call:The Examining Committee can't do that.]] By the way, I would like to make one more request. The biography of this woman also has to do with my request. In Moria, Ninis and Ninos, children, young people, families who don't help anyone, on the ground, sleep in dirt. We have often appealed and still hope that the Greens will fail in this regard. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Call to the ÖVP:... an honest clumsy!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Consistency with NEOS and SPÖ as well as with the Abg. Prince.]] [[12:30]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8235	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. [[Abg. Wöginger: The motion for a resolution was the only contribution that had to do with the point!]] [[Abg. Scherak: Go August!]] Mr Alexander Schallenberg spoke next. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8280	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, actual Members! What your speech has to do with foreign and European policy or with the report on the agenda has not really been open to me. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lightenness: But this is not your...!]] Rather, I think it would be necessary for us to really talk about foreign policy. The last time we had a foreign policy debate here in plenary, in July, I suggested that, despite the all-dominant pandemic, foreign policy does not stand and we may even have a hot foreign policy autumn ahead of us. Unfortunately, God's experience has proved true, several crises have already been indicated here, and the list of international hotspots and challenges has actually become longer: the emergency situation and the failure of government in Lebanon – which has already been mentioned by the honourable Member – the dangerous rise with Turkey in the eastern Mediterranean, the counterfeit elections and the democratic and civil society drama in Belarus, whose witnesses we are currently witnessing, and finally the violent uproar of the frozen conflict around Bergkarabach. But before I go into media – the debate on the foreign and European policy report gives the opportunity for a tour – I would like to address a topic that, unfortunately, continues to concern us – or I would say, again – with the subject of travel warnings. Many of us had the hope that we would continue in autumn and that the situation would be different from the travel warnings regarding travel. Unfortunately, reality – and we all know that – looks different. But our common goal is quite clear: It is about finding this difficult balance between the necessary health protection on the one hand and the essential protection of the freedom to provide persons, goods and services within the EU on the other. There is an ongoing close and good exchange with the EU Member States, especially, of course, with our immediate neighbours, and there are also positive developments, as last but not least the removal of the travel warning from Slovenia and Romania. Ladies and gentlemen, Austria is very clearly and strongly in favour of better coordination within Europe, and the EU's coronamepel, which was adopted yesterday, is basically an important step in the right direction; only if we expected more, not just a simple and not really accurate map of infection in Europe, but uniform standards for travel restrictions, quarantine duration and corona testing. There is certainly not the last word, and discussions at EU level will have to continue. First of all, and this is important to me, but we must look at reality: The reality is that the Covid-19 pandemic continues to hold us firmly in Europe; and thus travel warnings remain, whether we want or not, part of this European reality – as a temporary measure to counteract the further spread of the virus and an uncontrolled increase in the number of infections. The best way, actually the only way to create this subject permanently from the world, is to make sustainable use of the Covid-19 numbers in Europe and Austria, because finally we all have a common goal here in this area, namely to avoid a second lockdown and to find the way out of the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, the conflict around Bergkarabach is certainly the one that has the greatest escalation potential, from all the foreign political crisis spots I mentioned at the outset. He proves how quickly a seemingly frozen conflict can flare up and get hot. International efforts must now focus on bringing the parties away from the logic of violence to the logic of dialogue. I am also very grateful for the motion for a resolution, which is being debated here, and I believe that it is very timely. If – already mentioned – it is desired by the parties, Austria, as in the past, is of course available as a place of negotiation. The meeting of Foreign Ministers in Moscow and the first talks between Azerbaijan and OSCE representatives are signals that are cautiously optimistic that a fire in the region may still be prevented. We know that the humanitarian ceasefire reached depends on a silk thread, but it is at least a first step in the right direction. But I have to say quite openly: The role of Turkey is particularly critical. While all the other international and regional actors including Russia, I would particularly like to stress that they act as fire brigades, Ankara continues to pour oil into the fire – both in words and in deeds. Let me briefly address another point concerning Turkey in this context: The fact that Ankara has now sent a research ship back to the eastern Mediterranean is clearly a new provocation, not just to Cyprus and Greece, but to the whole European Union. If Ankara does not take this action back, the European Union should impose sanctions, as already announced at the EU Summit in early October. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We all know that a solution to conflicts around sea borders at the end of the day can only be reached at the negotiating table. Greece and Cyprus have agreed to do so, but the EU cannot simply accept this obvious refusal of dialogue with Ankara and these repeated provocations, but one should really have consequences and speak a clear common language. In any case, we will continue to closely monitor this development from Austria and I will be commencing my short-term journey to Athens and Nicosia as soon as next week. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Belarus is particularly critical. The power structure around Alyaksandr Lukashenko tries to prevent national dialogue and new elections with all of them, including violent means. It is therefore only logical that last Monday after the adoption of the first sanctions package with 40 persons, the EU Foreign Ministers launched another sanctions package, which will also cover Aljaksandr Lukashenko. But one thing for me is quite clear: As a European Union, we cannot only speak the language of sanctions against Belarus. Instead, we need to take an active role in civil society, in dealing with people there, and they need our support. I also underlined last week in a conversation with opposition leader Swjatlana Zichanouskaya. I therefore believe it is crucial that we have agreed not only on sanctions at European level, but also on the fact that we are turning EU funds into Belarus, so that these funds no longer benefit the system, but also the youth, civil society and independent media, and that we have more open EU programmes such as Erasmus plus and Horizon Europe to people from Belarus. [[In the case of the ÖVP, MEPs of the Greens and the Agg. Fireplaces]] We must, and this is very important, as Austria and as an EU really ensure that the population of Belarus does not disappear behind a new iron curtain. High house! On Monday, the EU foreign ministers also dealt intensively with another challenge that lies right in front of our door: the chemical weapons attack on the Russian opposition politician Alexei Nawalny. The investigations carried out by the International Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons speak a clear language. Unfortunately, Russia has failed to take the opportunity to contribute to the investigation of this attack. In the event of such a blatant violation of the ban on the use of chemical weapons, we cannot simply go to the agenda. [[In the case of the ÖVP, MEPs of the Greens and the Agg. Fireplaces.]] The European Union has therefore agreed in principle to prepare targeted sanctions against individuals associated with the Russian Novushok programme. But that doesn't mean to me – and I want to stress this in particular – that we are going to break the door for talks with Moscow, quite the contrary, we have to work towards Russia at an eye-to-eye level and continue to pursue a double-track strategy: Edge, where necessary, dialogue where possible. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Finally, let me focus very briefly on a subject which, in the shadow of the foreign policy challenges that are currently happening very massively in the European environment, is somewhat in the background, namely the negotiations on the future integration of Great Britain to the European Union, vulgo Brexit negotiations! We have really arrived at the last critical stage of these negotiations. In itself, Prime Minister Boris Johnson had a deadline until tomorrow, 15. October, set. This is now proved to be totally unrealistic, but it is clear that time is actually getting scarce. The agreement should be in place by the beginning of November at the latest, so that it can be put into effect in time before the beginning of the year. We all know that some key issues, including ensuring fair conditions of competition, are still open and a breakthrough. Although Austria and the EU are well prepared for all scenarios, we hope that a compromise can be reached in the coming weeks, because of course it is in the interest of everyone to make a deal. I will also have talks with my British colleague Dominic Raab in London next week, for one thing is clear: We want to know Britain further than important and strong partners in Europe. – Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8352	Mr Klubobmann Wöginger spoke on business treatment. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8378	In his speech, Mr Brandstätter said very little about the matter first, the majority had to do with the Ibiza Investigation Committee and not with the 2019 foreign and European policy report. From my point of view, a call on the matter would have been appropriate, but it is your Presidency's responsibility. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fireplaces.]] Perhaps this also has to do with the fact that the honourable Member has not been a member of the House for a very long time. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Fireplaces.]] Secondly, Madam President, I would like to ask you to read this in the Minutes again: Mr Brandstätter referred to the House’s first president as the “Häferl” when I heard it correctly. This is unacceptable. This does not correspond to the dignity of the house, and from my point of view, a call for order must be issued. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I'm trying to get that checked. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. El-Nagashi.]] 12.4 1
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8429	I now have further speeches on business, the first from Mr Loacker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8453	Mr Klubobmann Wöginger accused our honourable Member of not talking about it. This must be due to the fact that at the beginning of the speech by Dr. Brandstätter, Klubobmann Wöginger was not in the hall when he referred to the topic of Europe and a book on this subject. I should also like to draw the attention of Mr Klubobmann to the fact that there is no “first president” of the National Council, but only one president of the National Council. I should also like to draw attention to this: When it comes to the dignity of the House, I recommend that Mr Klubobmann Wöginger look at yesterday's "ZIB 2" again, then he can think about it.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8489	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Leichtfried. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8514	I must admit that this speech to the Rules of Procedure has already surprised me a little. I can join my colleagues, Loacker. I have followed Mr Brandstätter's speech very closely. At the outset, in particular, he raised the question of parliamentary democracy in the European dimension, throughout the European democratic system. If this question is not to be a fundamental question of our European and foreign policy discourse, I do not know what is otherwise important for us European political and foreign policy. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] It has certainly been on the matter, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr Brandstätter has addressed in this context the very strange interview by Mr President of Parliament and the really bad handling of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany with parliamentary democracy, because this is about democracy in Europe, and we are finally in Europe. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8547	Is there another word for business treatment? - That's not the case. Then, since every participant in the negotiations is responsible for asking for a call for a call, but the President-in-Office's decision takes, I would like to say that, in the course of the debate, there has actually been an excursion from Mr Brandstätter, who was addressed to the President of the National Council. But I do not see any deviation to the usual practice, so there will be no call on the matter. That is what we are going to do on the agenda. The next item is the speech by Mr Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8600	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! I'm going to try to do it now, but on the matter. ==References== Mr Brandstätter, you have at least remained faithful to your reputation of making book presentations here. This is, as it were, the red thread that runs through the debate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fireplaces.]] Yes, the European political report refers to the year 2019. It was the last year, so a normal year before Corona. As in the past, however, there was and has been an active foreign policy, as confirmed by the report and as can be seen from the statements of the Foreign Minister, an external policy that is also critical, Mrs Rendi-Wagner – because you have noted that it is not good for the Federal Chancellor to be critical of the EU financial framework and it is not good to be critical of the reconstruction fund. I'm just seeing this the other way around. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] I believe that Austria has always been a stable partner in the European Union and internationally and is also today. It is precisely because we are and because we are a small state that we have a good right to actively interfere and participate at European and international level. I do not think that it is acceptable for the Austrian people to say yes and Amen in international bodies. The population expects us to be actively involved in politics. We've always done this. I remember my time when we – Austria! – at European level, the Environment Council of Ministers requested the right to self-determination in the field of genetic engineering – each state should decide for itself – and it was successfully enforced. We were also successful in carrying out stress tests in the European nuclear power plants. That's the same way Sebastian Kurzetzt does. The Austrian population expects us to be involved in the financial framework or in all other European developments and to bring our interests to bear. As you can see, Sebastian Kurzdas has been successful. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This series also includes the visitation activities of the Foreign Minister and other ministers, but also those of the Federal Chancellor, who has been in the USA, Japan and South Korea in recent months and is in contact with the major technology countries – very important! – with China as a strong central partner for our economy, but also with the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait, where a historic event is now taking place, so to speak, reconciliation – let us say it carefully – with Israel, or also participation in the World Economic Forum. All these activities by German Chancellor Sebastian Kurz and the ministers contribute to Austria's recognition in the world, the image is maintained and contacts maintained. - That's the one point. The other point is in Austria itself. Austria and in particular Vienna are important meeting points between North and South as well as East and West. Last year we celebrated 40 years of the UN's location in Vienna – that is, 40 years of Vienna International Center with UNO-City. We were represented there with the Foreign Policy Committee. The Foreign Minister was there able to speak with high-level UN representatives. It should not be forgotten that in addition to these institutions, 40 international organisations operate here in Vienna – from the Unido to Opec, OSCE and many institutions that promote security and cooperation. They secure over 18,000 jobs and also have a great value added effect. An event in 2019 was memorable: the case of the Iron Curtain 30 years ago – we made many joint events, for example with Hungary – the Pan-European picnic, the flight of the former GDR citizens and thus a break-up of Europe. These permanent contacts make sense in the crisis. Now in the Corona year, the boundaries have been closed twice: Czech Republic/Austria, Slovakia/Austria, Hungary/Austria. Thanks to Minister Schallenberg, Minister Nehammer, Minister Edtstadler, Federal Chancellor and us on site, it has succeeded in keeping the borders open for nurses, nurses, doctors, harvest workers and other workers. This happened in April and now in September. It shows how important these cooperations are because Austria has a great competence to cooperate with its neighbours. We are also doing this in Parliament, lastly through the friendship group that met with Hungary, but also through the start of the neighbourhood dialogue with Slovenia, through contacts with the Balkan countries or within the framework of the C5 Group, which Foreign Minister Schallenberg has established, in which we have contacts with our neighbouring countries. I think that's really important. We have common interests and we also want to enforce them. This was successful – last sentence – when more than 7,500 people were brought back to Austria during the course of the Corona crisis. It was the biggest recovery action ever taken by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8690	The next speaker is Mr Jörg Leichtfried. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8712	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Before responding to the foreign policy report, I would like to say something about your speech, Minister of State: You have addressed the travel warnings, and I feel that Austria has not really acted effectively. If you want to summarize it briefly: First, you've grown up and even put up travel warnings about which you can discuss, and now suddenly we're on it: Ups, that's what others can do – and they're doing it. This reminds me a little of the sorcerer who is described by Goethe quite interestingly: First of all, there is superiority and importance – it seems to me a little familiar – then the implementation of the project comes, then you feel a bit powerful, and suddenly fear and despair come because the others do something like that. Mr. Federal Minister, do you know what I would like to do with this? – If we had been more sensitive from the beginning and had been looking for international cooperation, we probably would not need the fear of having our tourism companies as we have them. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Schallenberg shakes his head.]] [[Abg. Haubner: Incredible!]] – It is not incredible, my colleague, but unfortunately so, and everyone is suffering from it. Sometimes you should think about what you are doing before, and not look at it relatively negatively afterwards. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Cannon]] On the report itself, Minister of State: There have been many chapters, and I believe that there are some gaps that should not have been. I would, however, like to congratulate you on the reclaimed substance of the report. I think that should be noted positively. What I would like to question is a repositioning of foreign policy, which I perceive, by simply reducing or abandoning certain things. Austria has always been in a very good role as a mediator in the Middle East conflict. These interests seem to have been withdrawn from the report. More efforts are being made in other areas, but they are quickly relatively clear on the side of conflict parties. I noticed that in the conflict of Turkey-Greece, in which Austria apparently no longer wanted to play a middle role, but clearly placed itself on the side of Greece. One can do that, but one must accept that this middle role, for which we have become known for decades and which one ascribes to us, will disappear slowly. Foreign Minister, therefore, I also believe that the attempt to play a middle role in the Bergkarabach conflict seems to be more difficult for these reasons. My appeal: Let us consider the traditional role of neutral Austria as a mediator between those who want to exercise violence! I think that's better for us than to put us on one side immediately and quickly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, on one point I disagree with the role of Austria in the EU Mercosur Pact. You have also stated in the report that Austria is very skeptical of this pact. As a result of concern for the reduction of living and environmental standards, Austria has concerns about joining this pact. – Mr Foreign Minister, I would not have wished for this to happen, but I would have liked to see it inside: We will never sign this pact – point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, in summary it is a report with light and shadow, in which there are still things to praise and to criticize. I hope you take to heart the things I have addressed. The next report will be an even better one. As regards travel warnings: Please go with your Federal Chancellor and try to kit as much as possible the shards that we have caused! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8776	Mr Tashner spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8811	Madam President. High house! Mr Leichtfried, I can actually correct your error: It did not depend on the Federal Chancellor's policy that the travel warnings have been issued, but that depends on absolute numbers. You can't do anything about it – numbers are inexplicable.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8835	That was more a comparison of different opinions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] Mrs Steger has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8866	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! The 2019 foreign and European policy report is on the agenda – a good report, however, which is no longer up-to-date a year later, because a great deal has happened at European level. One could almost say that one is in a new European age. The problem here is only: It is not a good thing, it is a bad thing, because we are now experiencing an EU which is based on the original, so important and right idea of securing peace, freedom and prosperity through cooperation and cooperation, a Europe of the Fatherlands, Obviously has developed into a huge centralist cross-border structure with all-powered fantasies, ladies and gentlemen. We are experiencing an EU that – come what may – continues towards the United States of Europe in every sense, including the task of national sovereignty. It is an EU of lobbyists, who are making more and more debts and who are burdening fewer net payers. It is a Union that has still not learned anything from the 2015 refugee crisis, is unable to protect the external borders, can be extorted by Turkey, and still, as in the current asylum pact debate, is talking about the distribution of refugees. It is a Union that is now even turning its backs on the first member country. Above all, we are currently experiencing a Union that abuses the largest health and economic crisis – the Corona crisis – in order to expand its own power and competences. This, ladies and gentlemen, must be strongly condemned. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the tag Debt Union: For the first time, the EU will be allowed to accept debt and to obtain financial resources in the capital market – a huge taboo to an unprecedented extent, ladies and gentlemen, who will still have fatal consequences in the coming years. The sadness is: Once again, it is none other than the ÖVP itself, which has opened the way for it. I congratulate you for betraying the interests of Austrian taxpayers in such a way, ODP! It is also incomprehensible to me why, in the largest health and economic crisis in the Second Republic, in which many people are facing nothing and urgently need help, you have agreed that in the future we will continue to pay for other countries' debts and transfer liabilities and additional billions to the European Union. Explain to the Austrian taxpayer why it doesn't bother you that we are liable for debts of those countries that have previously been and have been in debt for disaster! Explain why you've been subtracting a huge frugal show for months and say that you'll never agree to grants, while at the end of the day we have instead of 500 billion 700 billion euros, both loans and grants! – I congratulate you on this success! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] Explain Let the taxpayer know why you agree if 70 percent of EU coronary aid payments are linked to criteria that have nothing to do with the covid crisis, such as unemployment in 2015! Explain why you agree that the European Union is constantly breaking its own treaties! Explain why you always stand up and claim that there is no debt union at all, and it is just a unique aid! At the same time, however, Olaf Scholz, Finance Minister in Germany and no unknown personality, goes out and says: The common debt becomes a permanent establishment, and the debt union is a huge progress that can no longer be reversed. – He is quite next to him, but unlike you, he is at least honest, very honourable ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Explain to the taxpayer why you say that you only agree to these aid payments if Austria retains its discount, but your EU delegate Karas goes out at the same time and votes against an Austrian discount! Explain how, as an Austrian politician, one can constantly sell the interests of one's own people at the EU table and constantly tell the opposite in Austria! Explain Once you've done this, dear ÖVP! Nor is it surprising why the Multiannual Financial Framework – we had a budget speech today – now looks the way it looks. Austria will pay more – also another election promise that you have broken. In connection with all the aid payments, I would also like to say that it has long been critical to observe that you do not say anything at all in the ECB's debt purchases, which now account for 4 trillion euros. Now also came a new proposal concerning a digital currency, which in the long term means nothing but a abolition of the cash, total control and a huge cut in the freedom of individuals. I know you've shown in recent months that your rights of freedom don't mean much to you. Of us, however, there is a clear no, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It seems that your solution is always only: even more EU, even more EU and a little more EU. Ladies and gentlemen, it is urgent to reconsider your approach. Finally, put off the pink EU favorite glasses! A more is not always good. When, if not now, the motto should be: Austria first! What's the name?
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8959	Next speaker: Mr Michel Reimon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8980	Madam President. Foreign Minister! Mr Steger, this was now a very interesting speech about how terrible the European Union is: more and more European Union, everything is so bad, and one should take the glasses. – What surprises me is: It is the 2019 foreign and European policy report that we are discussing here. At that time you were with your party in the government, and the report is about freedom of government policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] The report says that Austria has been committed to the enlargement of the European Union by the six Western Balkans countries and that the role of Austria in 2019 has been recognised throughout Europe, that in 2019 we actively committed ourselves to the accession of Albania, Macedonia, Serbia, Montenegro and played a very constructive role as the Austrian Republic. It must be said that this has made the liberals great, if it has been as it is in this report – I am not writing the report, but it is very positive - and I think it is strange that you do not praise the role you have had in the government. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] Let's hold on: If these accessions are to be achieved in the foreseeable future, the free participation of government in these countries has helped to bring these countries closer to the European Union. Since otherwise you would like to talk badly about it, we would like to mention positively how much you have committed to the accession of these six Western Balkans during your government participation. That's very good. The second point from the report I would like to address is European external trade. What has not happened in 2019 is an action against the negotiations of the EU-Mercosur Agreement, the Agreement with Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay. This was negotiated at the time, because one could have intervened ecologically and taken action. It wasn't done. This agreement has now been concluded, but has not yet been decided, and has been negotiated in a bad form. It is a problem that this has happened, because now it has to be rejected. The agreement is a rather simple exchange: Europe opens its agricultural markets and South America's industrial markets. This means – simplified but not very simplified – the European, the German car industry exports to Argentina and Brazil, the Brazilian and Argentine agricultural industry exports to Austria. The Austrian farmers, on the other hand, are right, because they would simply be overrun by an industrial farm that can produce much cheaper. We are against it for ecological reasons too. It cannot be that the Amazon rain forest, the largest oxygen base of this planet, for agricultural exports, for soya exports, will be wooded for beef exports. This could have been prevented in the negotiations in 2019. It wasn't done. We will now have to stop this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9044	Next speaker: Mr Martin Engelberg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9065	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! Two entry notes, the first very briefly: Oh, Helmut! - Anything else in a private conversation. Secondly, Please stop with this fairy tale of travel warnings – as if this were a sandbox game, in which one takes the Küberl away from the other and then the other to him the show! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I think it must really be clear to everyone in Austria that in the course of summer travel it is simply about naked numbers, how many diseases there are in which country. Accordingly, it is necessary to respond. I can only say that what the Federal Chancellor and the Foreign Minister are doing, that is to see at European level, that we are entering into an equal and a relaxation that is the right way to go. – Thank you for that! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] On the matter, on international policy – I think it is a big topic –: You don't want to believe it, but it's actually in a time of a pandemic yet so that the Erdoğans, the Putins, an Iranian regime, so to speak, don't leave us alone. They use this time to continue in domestic conflicts. I think that we can be truly happy and grateful that the Federal Chancellor and the Foreign Minister have such an active and positive role in all these conflicts and are so active in this difficult time, in which of course the main focus is on Covid-19, but also in this area. – Thank you for that! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I found it very important that we take such an honest, strong position in the EU. I believe that this will also be of great importance for the future of the EU. I believe that we have an important role to play in these conflicts that are currently under way. Since Belarus has already been mentioned a few times, I would like to share a very personal experience: I also once worked as an election observer in Belarus and can only say with one word what is happening there in the elections: shameless! It is shameless how in Belarus election fraud takes place. It cries out to heaven, which injustice is now taking place in Belarus, and we cannot keep silent about that. The same – shamelessness and injustice – applies to what is happening in Russia and what Russia is doing with its oppositionists. I think we can't keep quiet about that either. I would like to oppose Mr Leichtfried quite vehemently: I am very glad that Austria is no longer a soft mediator between all conflicts. No, no, no, We are intermediaries, we have an important position, but not in the case of injustice regimes, not when injustice occurs in this world. That is where we have to take a clear position. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] I am infinitely grateful to the Chancellor and the Foreign Minister for the fact that we are no longer in the middle between the position of Russia and that of the USA. No, no, no, We are in the middle of the Western world, whose most important strategic partners are the USA. Only together can we oppose injustice regimes and injustices throughout the world. – Thank you very much! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Lightenness: So that doesn't work with chatting!]] Last, but not least: What has not yet been mentioned is the incredibly encouraging development in the Middle East. There is a historical development that may not get so much attention at all: the peace conclusion, so to speak, or the establishment of diplomatic relations between Israel, the Emirates and Bahrain, probably also with other states that will follow. This is a historical development whose consequences, I believe, are not yet foreseeable. Even here, it is truly gratifying that the Federal Government – the Federal Chancellor, the Foreign Minister – has long taken a very right position. I would remind you that it was our Foreign Minister, for example, who, among other things, prevented the new Israeli government from being completely unnecessary and hasty in the European Union. Thank you for that too! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9141	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I ask the clubs if we can proceed to the vote immediately. - Well, then I'll do that. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Foreign Affairs to take note of this report III-150 of the supplements. Whoever speaks for the notice, I ask him for a corresponding sign. The report was unanimously taken note of. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Lopatka, Mr Ernst-Dziedzic, Mr Rendi-Wagner, and others on 'the current situation in the Bergkarabach region'. Who's calling for it? – This is unanimously accepted. [[96/E]] We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Helmut Brandstätter, colleagues, on 'Inclusion of 100 children from the Moria misery camp'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. [[13:11:49]] 5. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Amendment No 898/A(E) by Mr Reinhold Lopatka, Dr Pamela Rendi-Wagner, MSc, Dr Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic, Dr Helmut Brandstätter, Members and colleagues on the current political situation in the Republic of Belarus (Belarus, Belarus) (374 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9235	Now we reach the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Axel Kassinger is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9262	Madam President. Mr. Foreign Minister! There are several points in this motion for a resolution: It is about Belarus, of many – in the national language – called Belarus, it is about taking different measures. We liberals will not agree to this request, and I will now explain why. In fact, there are many things that we think are good and right, and we do not doubt that there are legal, democratic deficits in this country. However, we do not believe that the demand – which has already been partially implemented by the European Union – for sanctions against individuals, including the President of the State Lukashenko, is appropriate to make a meaningful contribution to the resolution of the conflict. I refer to the Russian sanctions, which are still upright. If these sanctions are designed to bring about changes in our behaviour, I say now, then the Russian sanctions have failed. We also believe that such sanctions against Belarus and people in Belarus do not do anything. We need to see the whole thing in a bigger context. It is also essential to support the call for the establishment of an appropriate diplomatic format – according to the Minsk OSCE format or another suitable format – in order to solve these problems, which are of course admittedly present there. However, I would also like to point out that we are in Europe, that Belarus is a European country, and that Russia is also a European country. In your speech on the previous item on the agenda, Mr. Federal Minister, I noticed a sentence: [[towards Federal Minister Schallenberg]] We must be careful not to build a new iron curtain. I also believe that we, as Western Europeans, must be careful not to cooperate in the construction of this iron curtain or to encourage it. We therefore consider this approach to sanctions to be a small building block of another wall. This is not the right way for us. In addition to the well justified criticism of the human rights situation and the well justified criticism of the electoral process in Belarus – we know all that – one has to look a little more closely at the objectives of the Belarusian opposition, civil society. If you look a little behind the scenes and look closer at the goals of the groups involved, you realize that it is also very strong – for us too strong – in the direction of building a wall, especially towards Russia. They certainly know the objectives: It then speaks of integration into Western political, economic and military structures – the EU and NATO. It is said that Belarus should immediately leave the Eurasian Economic Union. It is said that pro-Russian organisations should be banned et cetera, et cetera. In the military field, the destruction of Russian military facilities is required. I do not want this to go, in short terms, towards the fact that in Belarus sometime rockets are being set up by NATO, and I have full understanding of Belarus and Russia when they are very concerned about this (ii) the need to improve the quality of life and the quality of life; (iii) the need to This is a differentiated view on our part: We do not think that sanctions are appropriate in this context to bring about a positive solution for the European Belarus, Russia and the European Union countries.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9317	Next speaker: Mr Reinhold Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9338	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The luck of colleagues Kassinger was that he spoke at this hour and had little attention. – What else must happen in Belarus that the liberals are also for sanctions? [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] It is the last country in Europe where there is still the death penalty. It's a country I met in 2011: ==References== December 2011 I was at the Congress of the Christian Democrats in Minsk and the Party Day started as we all experienced it at party meetings. There were 170 delegates there and a greeting from the Vice-President of the Christian Democrats, who had been sentenced to three years of labour camps at the time. In this greeting, he called on the Christian Democrats to continue working for the country and not to be suppressed. Hardly was the greeting over, in the truest sense of the word the light went out. All who were in the Party Day were invited to leave the hall immediately. We were then perluscated, our data was recorded. By the way, the diplomat passport helped me there: In contrast to other Members who have been detained, I have escaped with a second Member because we had this protection. The next day in the morning, I met the board of Christian Democrats, five people. [[Abg. Kassinger: You're giving lectures!]] I then flew home over Warsaw and before I landed, everyone was arrested. Those who were lucky have been released after a few days, and those who had wrong have been stopped for weeks. Why am I telling you that? – Because Lukaschenka has banned the establishment of new parties since 1999. However, there have already been 19 parties who have not been able to work until today, except they were a hundred percent system-compliant. Now this debate has reached a climax, because thanks be to all those who have judged it in the West: These were no elections, the result cannot be taken into account. Lukashenko has thus not been recognized by anyone. What does the population do? – The only thing she can do is go on the road, week by week. What Makes Lukashenko? – He is brutally fighting the demonstrators, he is brutally fighting journalists, and in the last few days he has been announced by the Ministry of the Interior to use weapons of war and sharp ammunition in the future. So you can't threaten demonstrators any more. We have heard the budget speech of our Minister of Finance today. Lukashenko has also presented his budget. He wants military spending by 31 percent – by 31 percent! – increase and also expenditure on the police apparatus. With these threats of violence, this approach – only last weekend 700 demonstrators were arrested again – I really lack any understanding that the Freedom Party cannot support this four-party application. What else must happen in order for the Freedom Party to put itself on the right side, namely, to the side of freedom and democracy? No one enters freedom and democracy as Lukashenko does; there is no second country in Europe, which is in such a catastrophic state. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Cashier: Sanctions are the wrong way!]] Even Russia has already noticed how the situation is there. That is why it is true that we, like other parliaments, are dealing with this issue because we can at least support people morally. A participant of this Congress in 2011, namely Olga Kowalkova – I know her personally – was now in the Coordination Committee of the Democracy Movement. She has been forced to leave the country – at the moment she is in Warsaw – and so has Zichanouskaya, the presidential candidate, who is almost forced to go abroad. I think it's right that people there have now said that they're still up to 25. I want to wait on October. If Lukashenko does not respond until then, there should be a general strike. Then the question will be how the regime will react. We here are actually quite easy because we live in freedom and peace. We should already be on the right side, and the right side can always be the only one to stand up for democracy and freedom.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9400	Next speaker: Mr Harald Tür. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9421	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Belarus, Belarus, this is Europe. People there stand up for freedom and democracy. A wave of manifestations for fundamental rights has Minsk, has captured Belarus, and the government does not respond with national dialogue, the government responds with brutal violence, with faster and stronger firearms for the executive. It is good for Austria to take action against these infringements. Already in mid-August, the sad record looked like this: 6,000 arrests, beatings, tortures and psychoterrorism, and dozens of missing people were reported to me by the Viasna Human Rights Centre and the activist Michael Smolski. A number of missing people were found dead in forests, ponds. The regime is talking about suicide. It is therefore also highly appropriate to ask in the context of the death penalty, which is still being executed in Belarus. I would therefore like to make a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Let me conclude by saying: Human rights violations are to be disregarded. There is too little solidarity with victims such as the missing top officials and politicians in Belarus. There is hope, but it is also about making those human rights abusers, murderers, even desk perpetrators and commanders personally liable. In this case, Austria should deal more closely with the Magnitsky Act in order to achieve a strong wave of solidarity and hatred of murderers and corruptionists. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[13:25]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9589	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9613	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Freedom is not an instant vacation, as we once dreamed of. The path to freedom is long, now we know that. – The Belarusian Nobel Prize winner Svetlana Alexijevitsch recently said this in view of the shocking events and developments in her country. For more than two months, the Belarusians and Belarusians have now gone as brave as they are stubborn, one has to say, a very difficult way towards freedom. People of all ages, every social origin, especially many women, face violence, beating, blending grenades, tear gas and thus risk their own lives and health. They do not want the long-term ruler Lukashenko to steal the elections and thus their own future. They therefore prefer to put their personal freedom at risk in order to obtain the liberation of their country from decades of dictatorship. The people on the streets of Belarus have already gone too far and have made too many sacrifices, as I mean, as if they could or wanted to turn around now. Therefore, fair and free elections under international observation and a transition to democratic power conditions will no longer go by at least in the medium term. It is nothing less than democracy, a possibility that we have in Europe, in Austria, a possibility which is also absolutely for the Belarusians. For us Greens, democracy and human rights are among the greatest achievements that civilisation has produced in a tough struggle, and we see That is why fundamental freedoms are universal and indivisible. Only then, if the international community pays attention to these achievements, does it consider it to be a value itself, only then can we defend ourselves against authoritarian lust for power, and there is enough in the world to defend it. It is therefore also up to us to shorten this long, crushing path to freedom of Belarus, and I am therefore pleased that it has succeeded in bringing here in Parliament a request carried out by all parties, except the FPÖ, expressing a clear positioning of Austria on the current political situation in Belarus. And yes, it is right and important that the Austrian National Council sends a clear signal, not only to the Diaspora, to those who live here in Austria, but also to the civilian population on the ground. I am therefore pleased that you, Mr Federal Minister, have already complied with one of Parliament's calls, namely a re-transmission of EU funds, which were actually intended for Belarusian communities and authorities, towards civil society in order to strengthen them. These are exactly the steps that the Belarusian democracy movement is expecting from us, and I am very much in favour of ending the chosen path with the Belarusian civilian population. This may take a long time, but the endurance pays off anyway. The struggle for freedom and democracy, and I have known this since my childhood behind the Iron Curtain, is never in vain and will not be in vain in Belarus either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9661	Next speaker: Mr Helmut Brandstätter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9683	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear sisters! The situation is really dramatic, and if you look at what Mrs Zichanouskaya, who has met Mr. Federal Minister, says, then we know that Belarus – and thus also a piece of Europe – on 26 May. October may look very different in a dramatic way. I do not know how far you have pursued this, but she says that if not three conditions are fulfilled – namely the resignation of Lukashenkos, the release of the many political prisoners and also the abandonment of violence – then it will be on 26. October the country's civil society will rise, then there will be a general strike, then people will go on the street, then we can and may have to fear the worst. That is why my question, Mr Federal Minister, is: What is the European Union doing in this situation? I don't think we can just watch and say, hopefully happens to this 26. October nothing – because then we sit here afterwards and say, in fact, we knew that there might be a massacre on people. We must fear that in the present situation, and I fear that is very, very serious. Of course, there is the question: What are you doing? Mr Kassager meant that sanctions do not make sense; Colleague Tür has rightly pointed out the Magnitsky Act – I even have the book there, if you want, “Red Notice” by Bill Browder. He is the inventor of the Magnitsky Act because he has observed in Russia and experienced how his tax advisor and lawyer, Mr. Magnitsky, was arrested, tortured and eventually killed for some legitimate reasons. This Bill Browder, an American investor, has then said the only chance we have against Russia can act, is that we filter out which personalities are part of the oppression. You have to deal with them, not with the people. The same applies to Belarus, which is why this Magnitsky Act, particularly as regards Belarus, is very useful. Now I would like to say a word on the situation in Armenia and Azerbaijan, unfortunately we are back in the situation of the European Union – and I must quote Mr Erdoğan: This is an impermeable and superficial form. This must be said, ladies and gentlemen, by someone like Mr Erdoğan – and then we must say: He may not be wrong. Hopefully we're not superficial, but that we're impervious, that's something you can fear. There is a good comment in the “Economist”, with the title “No one in charge”. There is no one there who cares, and then it goes on to say that there is a vacuum of the Global Leadership. We are the vacuum of the Global Leadership in Europe: We are in the middle of Europe and we have the conflicts there. If we do not solve them together, then it will either make others, or more regional conflicts will arise in our area, in Europe, and they will have consequences which, of course, will have to be borne primarily by the people there but indirectly, too. That's why, and I'm really serious, I say it very often and we're unfortunately watching it – a whole new book, "Twilight of Democracy": [[Keeping that book in height]] It is the twilight of democracy. The author is Anne Applebaum, a great American journalist who lives in Poland and is married to former Foreign Minister Sikorski, i.e. Europe, especially Poland, Hungary and these countries all really know very well. In this book, she analyses very precisely how a lot of democracy is now being lost again and again. This must not be in Europe, that is against our values, against our tradition and against our experience – including our experience in Austria – and my ladies and gentlemen. We also know how democracy in Austria has been lost and what this has ultimately had to do with consequences. We also know that this was connected with a word, and I would like to say that again, namely, hatred. She is quoting Julien Benda, a French philosopher who already said in 1927 that in our era political hatred will come back and destroy a lot. On the other hand, we can act as the European Union, but we must also do so. Again my appeal, Minister of State: The Foreign Ministers must say more than they do at the moment. We can decide something today – wonderful, we are very much in favour of it, but the Foreign Ministers will have to do more in the next few days and weeks than to decide on a resolution. We will have to take great care of Belarus, otherwise we will have to fear the most terrible there. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9741	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. I ask the clubmen if we can come to the votes right now. - Then I'll do the same. We shall vote on the resolution on the current political situation in the Republic of Belarus (Belarus, Belarus) attached to the Committee's report 374 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[97/E]] We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Wier, Mr Lopatka, Mr Ernst-Dziedzic, Mr Brandstätter, Mr Kassinger, Mr President, and others, on ‘active commitment to the abolition of the death penalty’. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? The motion for a resolution is adopted unanimously. [[98/E]] [[13:36:20]] 6. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Amendment 807/A(E) by Dr Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic, Dr Reinhold Lopatka, colleagues on the EU Action Plan on Human Rights and Democracy (375 d.b.) 7. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Amendment No 780/A(E) by Mr MMMag. Dr. Axel Kassinger, colleagues with regard to Syrians living in Austria, must rebuild their home country (376 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9835	This brings us to the next items on the agenda, namely Agenda items 6 and 7, on which a joint debate is being held. There was no oral reporting. First speaker: Mr Axel Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9863	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! We are now discussing two agenda items on this agenda item in one, namely first, a request from the Freedom Party concerning ‘Syres living in Austria must rebuild their home country’, which was rejected in the Committee and is therefore voted here in plenary, and second, the item on the agenda item 6 on ‘EU action plan on human rights and democracy’. First of all, I come to the request of the Liberal Party, I would like to explain to him once again, and then I would like to stress a broad line: from the general issue of migration, the European continent and global migration to Europe, which has had very strong effects and a strong intensity in recent years, to our proposals for solutions. The proposals for a free solution differ, and you will not be particularly surprised, from those in the EU-Migration Pact, which is currently in the pipeline, but on one point or another, since we consider the Migration Pact to be an inappropriate means of getting to grips with this problem. In principle: Asylum law, according to our self-understanding – Geneva Convention on Refugees 1951 – means protection on time for persecution for political and other reasons, after an individual assessment. Austria has a long, good tradition and we liberals have no problem at all with this alyl legislation, quite the contrary, we support it. But what is happening right now is something quite different, we know that, and it is illusory to hide it or to close your eyes to reality. What we now have is to a large extent economic migration – economic migration into the European continent, where milk and honey flow, supported by some criminal tow organisations, which are preoccupied with false things and generate false expectations that put a lot of money out of the hands of people, supported by an incompetent European Union, which, in fact, has no concept. We have been hearing about effective external border protection for years, we have been hearing from Dublin II for years – the asylum procedure in the first safe third country and then not anymore. All this was done by Mrs Merkel, who said yes: “We’ll do it,” wiped away with a wipe. For example, Dublin II has been put to death and is ignored, with all the huge problems that arise. Now, in this debate on human rights, refugees, et cetera, we must finally stop closing our eyes to the question of what the motives are. Of course, the prospect of a distinct amount of money, we say one hundred euros to one thousand euros, is a motive for someone to migrate to a country X or Y – X is Germany, Y is Austria, because they have most approved asylum applications. Of course, this is a motive, everything else would be illusory and a refusal of reality. Only this motivation has nothing to do with human rights, asylum and the salvation of people from critical situations. That's a completely different subject. That is to say, at European level, we have to get through this – and this is what the Freedom Party stands for – to put an honest stop to these so-called attracting factors, the pull factors, the false hopes. The EU-Migration Pact does not address this with a word. Technical measures are being proposed, so to speak, how to distribute refugees in Europe and what to do in the case of rejected asylum procedures, how these people are being relocated to the countries of the home country. On the one hand, the home country of someone who has no passport is relatively difficult to determine, it does not work. On the other hand: Even if someone has a passport, the home countries from which people have fled do not have at all the interest in resuming these people in many areas. That means they're nowhere. We know that about two thirds of the people with negative asylum status remain in the country. This cannot be a state that is solution-oriented and can please all those involved! I see nothing new in this migration pact either. Dr. Klaus Woltron wrote a very good article in the “Krone Bunt” under the title “EU Migration Pact as Mogel Pack”. We will certainly not participate in this mogel pack.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9908	Next speaker: Mr Nico Marchetti. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9932	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! We are particularly important in the area of asylum and migration, and that is the rule of law. It is a question of complying with the rules we have. That is what we repeatedly call for in relation to this issue. I must say to the motion for a resolution tabled by the FPÖ that concerns the return of Syrians living in Austria to their homeland and the establishment of the country there: This reads completely intelligible in surface. But if you look at it more closely, there are a few things that we see a little different. You have already mentioned, Mr Kassager, that war is not a standard reason for escape under Article 1 of the Refugee Convention, but always a case-by-case check. This makes sense even now, because there are still regions, including Syria, i.e. Idlib, on which there are very reasons for fleeing, regions where religious groups, for example orthodox Christians, are persecuted and therefore still have reasons for escape. So I think the situation is much more differentiated than in this proposal. The argument you put forward, namely that there is a brain drain, that highly qualified Syrians and Syrians have emigrated, which would be needed there, that's true, but it's so easy to say that you're going here and saying: Okay, now she's going back! There is not yet a trusting peace process in Syria. Although the United Nations is trying to advance this peace process, it is on the increase because there is still no clear way in the international community and there is no dynamics for reforms in the country. That is, the situation is not so trusting that you say you take bag and pack, go back and build the land, because simply the framework conditions are still upset. So in our analysis, we are not as positive as you may be. Finally, I would like to say something to colleagues: I am a little sorry that someone who demands respect is so respectfully dealing with his colleagues. To call our National Council President “Häferl” is far from any material criticism. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Fireplaces: That's how he screamed!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Unbelievable! Respect, Mr. Brandstatter!]] For example, you personally called me on Twitter as someone who gets a turquoise hard drive, has no own brain and is a victim of educational emergency. You said that to me, and I have to say: I think this is disrespectful, so we should not be dealing with each other in this House. If you are concerned about the reputation of our Parliament, then leave it! I think it's really inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9991	Next speaker: Mrs Susanne Principal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10013	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The current proposal calls on the Federal Government to support the new EU action plan on human rights and democracy for the period 2020-2024. It is about bringing our view of human rights, democracy and the rule of law into the whole world. As far as efforts are concerned to abolish the death penalty, to curb or eliminate torture and most serious human rights violations, including in the course of conflicts and military conflicts, to curb violence against women, children, young people, efforts to prevent forced marriage and childbirth, we are of course all involved. I assume that, for decades now, it has been a ceiling on Austria's foreign policy, but also on other Western countries and Member States of the EU, to be as peaceful as possible, to support democratisation and rule of law in other countries and always to try to reconcile national and international interests. This does not require an EU action plan. But there are above all two reasons why we did not go along with this plan: It has much to do with the fact that this contains an incredible amount of hypocrisy and many approaches that are diametrically opposed to the interests of the citizens of the Member States. There is always the following problem: Unfortunately, when it comes to the development of human rights for the whole world, it is very often linked to the restriction and massive reduction of the fundamental rights of citizens, and we are not. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Why am I talking about hypocrisy? – Just a few points - -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10052	Madam President, I would ask you to be moderate in terms of expression, because I would have to give you a call for order for the concept of hypocrisy. I would therefore ask you to take back this term and to be moderate.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10067	Hypocrisy?
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10086	So is it.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10107	The plan was presented by the EU Commission at the end of March this year, in the midst of the corona crisis, in the midst of bans on entry into force, bans on entry, destruction of economic existence, in other words, at a time of – first of course – uncertainty and confusion, but then from the end of March and in the following months at a time of the greatest restrictions on fundamental rights of the last decades, in a time of suspension of the rule of law, in a time of disproportionate cuts. I do not know if this is the right time for the EU to point out the so-called Third World with the moralising finger. I think we have to deal with ourselves. Furthermore, this Action Plan also expressly mentions the protection of freedom of expression, freedom of the media and diversity in the online media. There you have to say the following: ==References== March, the day on which this plan was presented, the EU Commission already knew something that we did not know, namely how much freedom of expression is already restricted in our states. In fact, the opinions of many, many scientists and physicians who did not want to represent the corona policies of the governments were simply suppressed for a more reasonable approach to the corona virus – due to the devastating collated damage and rejections they had better anticipated – and the expression of these opinions was not possible. The scientists and physicians they represented did not get any appearances, there was no adequate public debate, even there were disciplinary advertisements against these physicians. When they opted out on the social media, their videos were deleted, marked as fakeews and branded as dangerous content. I think we have to deal here with our fundamental right to freedom of expression before we move out into the Third World. It also stresses the protection of assembly freedom and the strengthening of civil society. – Well, it is also to be said that we only want certain assemblies and a certain civil society. If people oppose these fundamental rights cuts and go to the streets, even against the Corona policy – it must be allowed to demonstrate against a line of government – all of this is not desirable. Finally, this action plan, of course, also provides a human rights-based approach to migration management. Behind this elegant expression is nothing but a reference to the EU-Migration Pact, which is now to be implemented, to the strengthening of NGOs, which provide us with new immigrants every day across the Mediterranean. So I've got to say, On this global approach to human rights, which points to the world's moralising and teaching, I can well and gladly give up, Because it is linked to a massive circumcision of the fundamental rights of citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10155	Next speaker: Mrs Petra Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10177	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to refer to the last request on ‘EU action plan on human rights and democracy’. I am missing a bit of the context because, it has already been said, the EU Action Plan has already been adopted on 25 May. This year was presented and will apply from 2020 to 2024. But everything – we still support him – what gives me the opportunity to talk about the following topic is a good opportunity, not a question at all: It's about economics and human rights. Whether in textiles there is child labour, whether in mobile phones there is conflict minerals, whether we take palm oil or soya, which has been planted on burnt-up forest areas, fortunately many consumers do not care anymore. Many want to know where the products they use come from, and that's absolutely good. Some other countries – I would just like to mention France, the UK and the Netherlands for example – already have laws that prohibit decided child labour, slave labour and other exploitable working conditions along the supply chain. Germany and Switzerland are about to pass such laws. On the other hand, there is also a wide variety of discussions, both at the global and national levels, that we should all move forward on this issue together, and I think this is very important. EU Commissioner Didier Reynders, for example, announced for the beginning of 2021 that the company that has its headquarters in the EU should undertake to respect human rights and protect the environment throughout the supply chain. That is good, that will be a binding instrument and we need it. The same is true at UN level: At the end of October, the sixth round of negotiations will take place within the framework of the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva, where the so-called UN Treaty will continue to be discussed, a global pact that will be binding on those who support it and that also has the content of companies along the entire production and supply chain having to respect human rights and to grant victims of human rights violations access to legal remedies in this context. There are countries such as France and Spain, EU Member States that are very active in supporting this process, and there are countries like Austria that are very much on the brake and are talking about the EU or a missing EU line, which is particularly regrettable because we are currently in the Human Rights Council and could be much more active there. Finally, I would also like to mention that we also have a legislative proposal in the Austrian Parliament, the so-called Social Responsibility Act, which is parked in the Committee on Social Democrats, with which we want to lead social democrats to try it once in the area of textiles and leather in Austria to see how to deal with it. As I said, To stand on the brake, to protest, will not work in the long run on this issue, which is on the table, which is becoming more important and more important to consumers, and I very much hope that a government party will move there in Bälden. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10225	A second time, Axel Kassinger has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10246	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! I have now come to the floor because I need to make a motion for a resolution which I have not tabled in the context of my first speech, namely ‘no reception of ‘Moria migrants’ and rejection of the new EU migration and asylum pact’. In essence, I have already presented the argumentarium in my first speech, which is why I now confine myself to reading the text of the resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[13:56]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10351	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10375	Madam President. Minister! Even though some still believe that Austria is an island, we have nothing to do with world policy, we should not interfere at all, all the international treaties, ignore the Geneva Convention on Refugees anyway, and so on, we believe that the EU is a strategic, self-confidence, effective and appropriate partner in the field of foreign affairs. The Action Plan runs until 2024. I think it is very, very good that we can not only debate this proposal here in Parliament, but also decide to make it clear that we are participating in the Action Plan, because – no, net – without the rule of law, Without democracy, without respect for human rights, it will not be possible, and we do not want us to depart from it. That is a real and important request. As an Austrian politician, we have to deal with international politics, and I am pleased that today there is the space for discussing different areas, crises and challenges, and I would like to address another current conflict, which is also intensifying, namely the situation of the Kurds, especially, but not only in Syria. The estimated 30 million Kurds and Kurds represent the fourth largest ethnic group in the multiethnic region of the Middle East. Since the collapse of the Ottoman Empire – you may know that – they have settled as a people without their own state, especially four countries: Turkey, Iran, Iraq and Syria. ==References====External links== In the 19th century, this group of repression, repression, was often affected by violence. Especially in Turkey, the human rights situation of the Kurdish population has deteriorated dramatically in recent years. On the other hand, we know that the Kurds and Kurds are very important players in the Middle East, for example when it comes to fighting the IS. With the beginning of the Syrian Civil War, the Syrian Kurds in the north of the country were able not only to build their own administrative structures, but also to establish themselves as a force against the IS. Turkey's allies, who in turn were in use in Syria, are said to have been systematically opposed to the Syrian civilian population, especially Kurdish origin – and this is not surprising. I therefore, together with Reinhold Lopatka, make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The colleague of the FPÖ looks skeptical, which is actually a good signal to us. [[Cheerfulness and call of the Abg. Kassinger]] It is good that we decide on this proposal today to stick to the subject of strengthening Austria on the international stage and to put forward concrete measures that serve the peace process. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[14:01]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10527	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Henrike Brandstötter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10555	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! We in Europe have invented human rights, and we are very proud of that. We stress this especially if we want to explain to others that they have to respect human rights, please. As far as we ourselves are concerned, we are sometimes a little more restrained, and that is best seen when you have to stand up to your word. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] This has not worked recently in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Although our amendment to the EU action plan on human rights and democracy, the Greens have found it very good and correct, they have still rejected it. Unfortunately, this fits well together, after all, our government, the ÖVP and the Greens, human rights are no longer so important when it comes to refugees. [[Abg. Ernst-Dziedzic shakes his head.]] They are often housed in tents in the mat and without drinking water. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] These people are being misused for cheap PR shows and marketing stunts, because it is nothing else if an interior minister with a Antonov quickly jettles to Greece to deliver supplies for which no one has asked and who no one needs; therefore, they first come to warehouses. This is then called “Help on the Site” – under quotation marks. These marketing actions seem to be financed from the development cooperation budget, and there are already a lot of things going wrong. Let me emphasize the following! First: A flag is not a relief measure. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] Secondly, It does not solve any problems if we give people in distress things they do not need, even if the Minister of the Interior brings them by personally. Thirdly, It does not benefit NGOs and aid organisations if we do not listen to them if we do not ask them what they need. Fourth: It is especially not a local help if we push people who already have thousands of kilometers behind them into the hand of a blanket. A ceiling or 7,400 blankets, as in Greece, do not help to devastate the situation in Syria. A ceiling does not change the fact that young people in West Africa – in other words, on the spot where we should help – no longer see the future and get on the way. [[Abg. Gödl: This is very cynical, woman - -!]] If you refer to such actions as help on the ground, then only one shows: [[Abg. Gödl: Very cynical! Unworthy cynical! Unworthy cynical!]] You don't offer any real help at all in the right place! [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] They are wasting only valuable budgets for cheap PR actions. That's where you should be ashamed! [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gödl: Unworthy!]] We should always have this in mind when we talk about human rights again. If we are already on the spot with the help: So instead of uninvited bringing any goods somewhere to which no one has asked to adorn the whole thing with an Austrian flag, you have to ask yourself the question What is aid on the spot really? [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Gödl]] [[Abg. Gödl shows down with the thumb]] What is aid on the ground? The World Bank rightly warns that Covid-19 has brought the finances of the poorest countries in the world to the crack. [[Abg. Gödl: Unworthy of human beings!]] It therefore calls for, among other things, a moratorium of debt so that these countries can buy, for example, breathing equipment, which has failed a hundred times as an Austrian flag. This is what they need so that they do not have to pay interest to the rich countries. I ask the Greens at this point – our applications are not Rocketscience, they are not pre-scientific work either; they are based on the expertise and participation of NGOs –: If we make one of our requests again and you feel it is good and right, please also agree!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10686	Mrs Nurten Yılmaz. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10711	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing human rights violations, violations of international law for over 1 hour, and it was really worth two-thirds or even more of the contributions to the debate. We can be proud that we do not want to close our eyes, that we do not want to look away, that we are aware that we have to do something and so on. This is very, very important. I would now like to tell you something about human rights violations that happen about 3.5 hours away from the field, namely on the Bosnian-Croatian border. I was in December 2019 with activists of the NGO SOS Balkan Route on the border, especially in the village of Bihaň. There are tens of thousands of refugees from different nationalities who want to try their luck to get asylum in Europe. These pictures, which I saw there in December, ladies and gentlemen, I can't get out of my head anymore. It's inhumane, it's dirty, people don't just need food and blankets and tents, they just need a decent treatment, and They don't get them. [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the Greens and the Agg. Meinl-Risinger.]] It is obvious that Croatia's border police are doing most brutally against those people who are trying to come to Europe. I've seen injuries there like torn-off ears. – This is incredible, indescribable! We cannot allow that to happen either, nor must we close our eyes. This happens on European soil, 3.5 hours from Graz. We need not only to become more active, the farther the country is, but: Let's go in front of our door! Ladies and gentlemen, on this occasion I would like to make the following request with my colleague Helmut Brandstätter: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to agree. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] [[14:11]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10879	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. Michel Reimon is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10903	Mr President. Mr. Minister – once again! I would like to speak about the Syria proposal on sending back people who are here who have sought protection to Syria. I have rarely heard of a more dangerous request here in the National Council, which is a request that would actually endanger human life if he had any chance of finding a majority. – This is the only thing that speaks for the request: that you know anyway that he has no chance. In Syria, if you want to do so – the country is divided – there are two areas: In one area Assad has the rule. There it is indeed relatively peaceful in many parts, because you are right, but peace also means that there is a dictatorship in which people are tortured and murdered in prison – and many of the people who are now here with us are dissidents who have received asylum because they have fled from this regime. With this request you are now saying: There a dictator has won a war over large parts; let's send him still the people he can torture in the basement! – I rarely heard anything more cruel in the Austrian National Council. The second area in Syria – north and north-east – is essentially under Kurdish control. There are some still fights there, there is also a front line. When we send people back there, this can mean that they can de facto get into a fight at any time, into a conflict, for example if Assad resumes the offensive, which could be possible in Corona at any time. So we send people directly to a war zone. What would actually be needed is support for this Syrian-Kurdish region, which is really one of the most interesting democratic projects in the Middle East, where one tries to build democratic local administrations, where one tries to live equal rights, strictly respect human rights, also respect human rights against prisoners, and to have it monitored internationally. They need support and help – and not that they are put under additional pressure with such requests. If we are politically committed to the first peace in Syria and democracy prevails, then I am convinced that many people will be happy to return to their home country. But before that, we should make a decent policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10943	Mrs Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10967	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to take a brief look at the request of Mr Nurten Yılmaz on border violence at the Bosnian-Croatian border. It is not true that this issue is new. My colleague Faika El-Nagashi and I have discussed the whole issue around the World Refugee Day in June together with NGOs who observe the situation on the ground. The NGOs gave us these reports, I then went to the Foreign Minister, we had a long discussion of what you can do, and although between summer and summer break, a lot has already happened: On the one hand, you have contacted not only the police, Alma Zadić as Minister of Justice has contacted the Minister of Justice there bilaterally, I am in contact not only with the NGOs on the ground, but also with numerous authorities who are carefully looking at this situation there. [[towards Federal Minister Schallenberg]] At the time, we also agreed that we will of course continue to pursue the situation, continue bilateral talks, and that there will be just as much monitoring at European level, because, so to speak, the situation will not only concern us in Austria, but also other European states, who are anxiously looking at Croatia at the border, who are looking at what is happening there, which is why there should now be a monitoring to ensure that human rights are safeguarded accordingly. Two police officers have now been suspended because of this border force, and yes, the Croatian police have, of course, blocked themselves first, has said: We do not know that we have nothing to do with it!, but we have ultimately also moved in and said that, if such incidents occur in the future, they should also be examined accordingly. All in all: Not only colleague Yılmaz is in line, we too are in favour. Mr Gudrun Kugler has also been thinking about a mission there through the OSCE, and I myself want to look at the situation. What I want to conclude with is: Thank you for this request, but we've been on it for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e11016	No one is reporting on this. The debate is therefore closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Before entering the voting process, I ask: Would you like a club 1 minute break? - No, I don't. Then we start the voting process. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first vote on item 6 of the resolution on ‘EU action plan on human rights and democracy’, annexed to the Committee report 375 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. [[99/E]] We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr MMMag. Dr. Axel Kassinger, colleagues on ‘no reception of ‘Moria migrants’ and rejection of the new EU migration and asylum pact’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Nurten Yılmaz, Dr Helmut Brandstätter, colleagues on 'Human rights violations at the Croatian-Bosnia border'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs to take note of its report 376 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic, Dr Reinhold Lopatka, on the situation of Kurds, among others. in Syria’. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[100/E]] [[14:18:16]] 8. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 891/A(E) by Dr Dagmar Belakovich, colleagues on the Freedom of the COVID-19 Package (392 d.a.) 9. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on amendment 846/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on the confidence package: Reform proposal for successful and economical short-term work (393 d.a.) 10. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on amendment 847/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on the confidence package: Create new jobs (394 d.a.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 851/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on Corona-Blum-Bonus 2020 (395 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e11193	We come to points 8 to 11 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Dagmar Belakovich has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e11223	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! It is about the Austrian labour market, and the labour market does not look good: It is very sad at the labour market, unemployment is very high, it is still going to rise a lot more, we know. Perhaps the Federal Government knows that too – you can't say that. Today in the early morning, the Minister of Finance gave the budget speech. The Minister of Finance has said that the budget is the figure-cast work of this Federal Government – and that is then left: half a page, quite loosely written, in the field of social, care and consumer protection. [[pointing to a page of the copy of the budget speech]] I have to say honestly now: We still have a little business there. [[pointing to another side of the copy of the budget speech]] That is what the Federal Government of the labour market and the economy are really worth, that is what has actually come from this federal government today. [[keeping the copy of the budget speech in height]] [[Abg. Worm: Very little!]] And that is embarrassing, that is really embarrassing at a time when many people actually have fears of existence! These fears of existence do not come from about and do not simply go that way. If we know how many insolvency applications are already fixed and finished at the Austrian Health Fund, then we can prepare ourselves for next year to deal with an insolvency issue of unprecedented magnitude, ladies and gentlemen. And the reaction of this federal government is that and not anymore! [[keeping the copy of the budget speech up to date]] [[Abg. Singer: Shame!]] There are no measures in this area that are effective and effective. What does it need now? The citizens are waiting for action to be taken at last so that they can feel safe again so that they do not have to be afraid that they may be unemployed in a year and then no longer know whether they can afford the advice for their homes at all and whether they can even keep their standard of living. This whole uncertainty is outside the population, with the people out there who always conjure you so much. In the beginning, you always said: “Taste what it wants!” – That’s all that’s left of it, ladies and gentlemen! [[keeping the copy of the budget speech up to date]] That's nothing, that's embarrassing. You should sit down if you don't have to stop. It's an insanity, isn't it? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now it takes first of all security, planning for companies, but that still does not exist. The Damocles sword of a possible lockdown floats in the room, and this does not come from the opposition – because you look so, Mr Wöginger – that comes from your own Minister of Economic Affairs, who said this a week ago, ladies and gentlemen, who said it medially. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and NEOS.]] What's an entrepreneur supposed to think when he reads that? You can still say so often that this is any brain-spinning of the opposition – you yourself put these rumors into circulation, because you probably also plan such things, just don't know exactly how you should do it, ladies and gentlemen! That's what it takes: It needs safety, it needs planning on the one hand, and on the other hand, we have to try to boost consumption. We have a hugely high savings ratio out of this uncertainty. We called on the Austrian thousands already months ago. There have been various other initiatives, a halving of VAT, for example, the reintroduction of the Blum bonus, adapted to the situation we currently have. It's not coming from this federal government, it's all being pushed away! Today, everything will again be rejected, and Mr Loacker's requests will also be rejected. This can be done – but only if you put in place your own measures, which can revitalize the economy and which can finally give the people outside hope again. The time of fear and panic is now slowly over, understand at last! Stop yelling fears at all times! Finally, start to restore security to the citizens of this country! That's what they finally need. This is also what entrepreneurs finally need. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and NEOS.]] Only then, ladies and gentlemen, will we be able to really overcome this depth, that our economy will grow again next year. That's where you are called, Mrs Minister of Labour, and that's not enough good words. You can announce what you want, if that is what is left for the budget speech, if that is what the figures budget for the economy in Austria is, then, ladies and gentlemen, we will not be able to get back up the economic performance in Austria. [[keeping the copy of the budget speech up to date]] So finally stop the panic, give the company security, give the people safety, so that they can also consume them again so that they can invest so that they can finally go uphill in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e11310	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann August Wöginger. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e11334	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Belakovich, I can understand after last Sunday and also after yesterday's National Party Council meeting of FPÖ Vienna that you are something raised, that is all human and understandable, but what I really reject is the claim that in this budget for the labour market, for employment and for the people who are in unemployment, too little would be contained. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens]] I firmly reject that! [[Abg. Belakovich: There's nothing in there!]] Heuer and next year: 29 billion euros! Perhaps you should not only read the last few pages, you should perhaps read the beginning and the middle, there is a whole page of measures, which, by the way, also relate to the four requests that we have rightly rejected from the Committee on Social Affairs. There it says: 29 billion euros this year and next year for work and employment, ladies and gentlemen. We take this money in our hands, because it's necessary. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Now maybe a few details about this: If it is said here that we do nothing for the apprentices that we do nothing for the unemployed people, that we do nothing to make people get back into employment, then I now call you a few examples, ladies and gentlemen, especially from the FPÖ. The apprenticeship bonus is already decided; it is 2 000 euros per apprentice, and if the company has less than 10 employees, it is 3 000 euros. That's 55 million euros for this year and next year. Then there was a single payment of 450 euros for unemployed people. That accounts for around 181 million euros. [[Abg. Belakovich: That's over!]] This year, by the way, we have been supported by a large majority here in the house, ensuring that no one slips into the emergency aid. The Minister of the Interior has received the authorisation, has also used it and extended the regulation by the end of the year, so that the level continues to be unemployment benefit and not emergency aid. This has already been implemented. For short-term work, we have posted around 8 billion euros, 6.8 billion euros for 2020 and 1.5 billion euros for 2021. We still have around 270 000 people in short-time work, and unfortunately – yes, that's true – too many people who are unemployed, but we have taken care of it. The tool that the social partners have negotiated, which has saved many people from unemployment – we have had over 1.3 million workers in short-time work; you can look all around Europe, as a model does not exist a second time – is a success model, even in a crisis situation. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Please go, that's not true! ...it won't be more true!]] – The screaming did not help on Sunday, and she does not help today, Mrs. Colleague! It just doesn't matter. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In addition, a total of EUR 700 million will be made available for work foundations. The keyword will be: Retraining and qualification, ladies and gentlemen, we will have to invest there. This is an action for some 100,000 people, who are being launched, directly into the economy to promote employment and to accompany people from unemployment to return to the working world; 700 million euros for re-training, for foundations, divided into 2021 and 2022. By the way, the two board members of the AMS, Johannes Kopf and Herbert Buchinger, were also present at the committee meeting, and both have confirmed that this is the right instrument that is now the right way, namely, keyword qualification and re-training. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Were you in another committee?]] We will thus bring many thousands of people out of unemployment. [[New call of the abg. Belakovich.]] – Mrs Colleague, I have listened to you, I do not know why it is so difficult for you to listen. It's just an unkind way of acting when someone else talks about these social issues. I have to say that in this decision. [[Congratulations and bravado with ÖVP and greens.]] I just give you an example: the care. Minister of Social Affairs and I are currently negotiating the care reform. We'll start on 20th. October with a start-up event, which will be carried out mostly virtually. It is about starting a staff offensive, and this staff offensive will also result in enabling us to get nurses for this very important profession through foundations. I'm just calling that an example. We make a lot of money available for this. I also mention that we have kept the promise that the AMS staff stand will be increased by a total of 500 people. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek:... before taken away!]] 350 people are shown in the budget – yes, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, you can say: is gone anyway, continues, now comes next! – and we have not reduced 150 jobs, which would have been planned. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Removed before!]] If you add the 350, then it's 500, and I hope 150 plus 350 will also be at the SPÖ 500 – you wouldn't have always been safe in the past. At the end of the day, however, it is 500 jobs that we provide there in addition. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I also recall the support in the family sector, the children's bonus, and the reduction in the tax area, namely the lower tax rate, including a negative tax of EUR 100. We have accordingly supported and strengthened small and medium-sized incomes, because this is necessary in this crisis situation in order to preserve the purchasing power of people in that country. We have put on great packages for entrepreneurs in this country, so that they continue to have the opportunity to employ people. We need entrepreneurs who also have the courage to be innovative. With the investment premium, we have created a real boost, and if there are powerful and efficient workers, then we will manage to get through this crisis together – out of responsibility for jobs and locations.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e11493	Mrs Dagmar Belakovich spoke on a corrective report. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e11520	In his speech, Mr Klubobmann MP Wöginger claimed that Austrian short-term work model was the best and not comparable to others in the world. - That's wrong. I'm actually correcting: There are far better models like those in Switzerland or also in Scandinavian countries. Comparability is therefore of course given. In addition, Mr Klubobmann Wöginger, in his speech, said that both board members of the AMS had said at the last meeting of the Committee: The measures taken by the Federal Government are clearly the right ones. – That is also incorrect. I'm actually correcting: Executive Board Dr. Buchinger literally said: It will be seen whether these measures are the right ones now. - Quote.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e11558	Mr Wurm, I give you a call for order for the intercession 'Wöginger lie'. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The word is now known as Mag. Gerald Loacker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e11599	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! When the Minister speaks of her labour market measures, she likes to use the picture of the suitcase she has packed. But we don't really know, What's inside this suitcase. You have this mysterious suitcase, Anschober has his drawer, of which we don't know what's inside, and you keep the secret. We now know that there is this corona work foundation with 700 million euros. 700 million euros – but what do we do with it? – Uh, further training! There is nothing specific about what is planned with this three months after the announcement. You're a little behind with the press conferences, Anschober does more than you do, but you're picking up. We still do not know what exactly is in it in the 700 million euros. 700 million euros are not a small thing, either, don't they?Unknown term type: "%s".? [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] - Thank you for this sound. [[Rejoicing with Members of the NEOS.]] In one of these press conferences, which you held in double-conference with Mr. Anschober, he – the non-responsible social minister – has reported on the solidarity premium model and has said that this will now be extended. Then I asked you as a competent minister: What's going on? – The rest remains: Well, we're going to use the possibilities of increasing company information through the AMS. - I don't think so. It's true what was said: Short work was a valuable tool for maintaining jobs that would otherwise have been lost. There was a lot of money spent, but a job that was permanently saved should be worth it to us. What is missing, however, are the recipes, as we come out of short-time work in the workplaces which are still in short-time work now, after so many months, and have no prospect of improving the situation. That is why we have brought in our confidence package, which is about focusing on the new that is emerging: A crisis accelerates the process of change; Things that might only have died in a few years die faster – this is painful – but it also creates new things, and we should also focus on this new politically by giving impetus to jobs that can be created. Of course, it is counterproductive when your colleague, Schramböck, fantasizes in the media whether there may be a second lockdown or not. You have to put yourself in the business! If you are an entrepreneur and you are thinking about making an investment, and then the Minister of Economic Affairs comes and speaks of a second lockdown, you think: Well, if even thinking about a lockdown, it's more likely. You know, that's a little bit like the pink elephant you shouldn't think of. Don't think of a lockdown! We're not planning a lockdown. Nobody's prepared to build a wall. – Of course, everyone thinks of a lockdown if you always talk about a lockdown in your government. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the NEOS and with representatives of the FPÖ.]] That is why we have proposed that the Republic should pay half the additional costs for additional jobs that are to be created for a year. This would serve those who create new things. We have also proposed an apprenticeship bonus, which has been graduated, which is also more generous than what the government proposes. Why did we do that? – Of course, apprenticeships in over-company training centres are better than no apprenticeships, but even better than these over-company apprenticeships are such in real businesses, because there are young people who have a chance that their employment will become a permanent job beyond the teaching period, and that must be the goal: to create permanent jobs, therefore our application for the Corona flower bonus. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the FPÖ]] Since it is also a matter of people not at all like to be in short-time work, but now less work, but also less deserved to do so and to fight their household income with less, we also need to ensure that we bring these people who are in short-time work back into real full-time working conditions. Therefore, the AMS should be responsible for providing jobs to these people, so that they can be put into mediation. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That's what we're looking into the future. - Thank you. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Kainz.]] [[14:36]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e11795	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and under negotiation. Mr Josef Muchitsch has now been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e11822	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I should like to comment on item 11 of the agenda on NEOS' request for an apprenticeship bonus. Mr Wöginger said: 29 billion euros, what a huge package! - Yes, but how does what come about? Which of the measures have so far achieved their objectives and which have not been achieved? – On the topic of apprentices you have to be quite open – the APA reported yesterday on the apprenticeship statistics of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce –: 9.1 percent of apprentices in the first year of education in September 2020 compared to September of the previous year, thus 2019. That is to say, the current apprenticeship bonus, which was quite well meant by 2 000 to 3 000 euros, and also the NEOS' request, which flattened at 5 600 euros in the first year of teaching, up to 1 400 euros in the third year of teaching, does not lead to success. This conveyor model with the casting can failed, and then you have to have the courage and say: There's something we need to change! We need to change something on the question of apprentices in youth training! What has not been said: Egon Blum, a person who really deserves the highest recognition and appreciation, a person I myself earned on 13 March. In July, in Koblach in Vorarlberg, where he presented his various funding models to me, he also had a second model. You didn't bring that in. As a result, only up to the fifth apprentice is to be promoted. This would be especially beneficial for SMEs, small and medium-sized enterprises. So there are other models, and you might want to look at them. We have always said in the SPÖ that we need targeted measures in apprenticeship training, in youth training, and we have tabled a number of requests which you have not yet given your consent. We have submitted a request for the establishment of a “Corona Not Training Fund”, which is aimed at promoting exactly those establishments which have suffered economic damage from the Corona crisis in a different and better way than those in which apprenticeship training takes place anyway. We have also said that there is a need for more training places in over-company training, and more resources are needed to do so. And please carry out the training guarantee until the 25. A year of life again! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It must be our common goal to bring young people out of unemployment and into training, Mrs Federal Minister. That must be the common goal. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Koza.]] [[Calls and countercalls between Green MEPs and SPÖ.]] Finally, in all our fields of activity, public service, local authorities, cities and countries, we can also be much more aware of this. to enable more young people to be trained. We need measures that are target-oriented: target-oriented training, target-oriented promotion, away with this molding! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e11888	Now comes Mr Mag. Christian Raggerzu word. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e11913	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I believe that every group in our House is interested in creating a solution for this republic, for people, but also for workers. The question is always what access you choose. Of course, we are listening to many areas of action, but I believe that today a cardinal mistake has happened to the Minister of Finance, namely how he is dealing with the matter. [[Abg. Lightenness: Not just today!]] If we look at our economic system in Austria today – which is pretty much the same as in all other European countries – we see that more than 70 percent of our gross national product is used for consumption. If we now put in place measures that lead us to produce a huge deficit in the budget, then I must say that we have chosen the wrong approach. What we choose first and as The first thing to do is to increase consumer behaviour after this first stage of the corona epidemic. We do not succeed by these measures, but only by connecting and increasing consumer behaviour directly to the individual. This ultimately leads to the measures we want to take, whether this is the area of the Blum bonus or the area of unemployment benefit, or whether it is the EUR 1 000. It doesn't help you invest in institutions that invest in the company. You have to invest it in workers, you have to invest it in consumption. I'll call you the numbers. The gross national product is EUR 400 billion. Of these 400 billion euros, 282 billion euros are consumer-oriented and 25 percent are investment. That means: If you don't generate consumer behaviour, how do you know – explain it to me! – making an investment in its area? If the entrepreneur does not make an investment, how does he want to generate jobs? That is why this cycle, which you want to adopt with this budget and, ultimately, with the measures you are setting, is incomplete. Come on. You have therefore returned to the basic structure, which we have also given you with this EUR 1,000 – the trade union has also recognized that consumer behaviour will be the decisive and decisive factor in the future so that we can cope with this corona crisis – and then I see that we can find a common solution! Otherwise, I believe that even after what the “New Zurich newspaper” wrote yesterday is quite clear: While they all dream of a recovery in the economy, the fact is that we are going to make another fettery deficit in 2021. That'll be it.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e11953	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Markus Koza. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e11978	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Sometimes I actually wonder, At which Committee meeting we were sitting – it must have been two completely different, because what is partially spread there is already very sluggish and enigmatic. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Wöger.]] We have had the two board members of the AMS here, who both declared unisono that there is no abolition of the training guarantee until 25. They do not exist, the training guarantee remains! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kucharovich]] The only thing that does not exist is special budgeting, but the abolition of the training guarantee up to 25 is not a question. I don't know how many times that has been said there, but it will be repeated here on a permanent basis. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] At the same time, we are constantly talking about this: We don't know what's happening! We don't know what's going to be done! No one knows what happened, there's a suitcase packed and no one knows what's inside! – The two Boards have also made this quite clear. There are, of course, sectoral, business foundations in the various regions, since regional labour market services have long been in place. There will be training and training measures that will be increased – this too has been said. There are measures for young people, measures are being increased for women in technical professions and a focus is placed on the care and social professions. All of this was said there, and, interestingly, there were only a few questions on the one hand, but on the other hand, a press release of the SPÖ club, in which exactly the opposite of what has been said in it, because it said: Nothing of what we wanted has been confirmed and confirmed! – Please do the press releases more afterwards than before, which probably makes more sense! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] So, and now we come to the various measures planned under this package; I do not want to go much further. The one is the FPÖ's COVID-19 package of measures – we know that: In the middle of the crisis, the social assistance for the poor and the poorest – a very intelligent measure – is dissolving – is always a good thing against the social partners; sectoral closure of the labour market in Austria for EU citizens – will be most grateful to the Austrians working in Germany and elsewhere. No one will seriously assume that there will then be no measures to be taken by other EU countries. . The request must therefore be rejected in any case from our point of view, and that is also good. The other point is the question of apprenticeship training. Fortunately, we have introduced the apprenticeship bonus of up to 3 000 euros per apprentice – colleagues Wöginger mentioned it – and it is pleased that it also works. There are over 8 000 grant contracts and 8 805 teaching places were open in September with 8 406 job seekers. That means that there is a job surplus. Of course, there are also problems. There are problems, especially where education in urban tourism, in congress tourism, in trade fair tourism is concerned, but more money does not help either. In fact, there is a need to invest directly in the economy, to invest in the respective areas, to support them in order to re-train them. Finally, I come to the NEOS request for short-time work, according to which people in short-time work are to be automatically defined as work at the AMS as a work and indirectly defined and mediated in fully paid and sustainable employment. In the ‘Falter’, this application would fall under the ‘Beyond’ category, but a few comments on why this request should simply be rejected. First: Workers in short work have a job, unlike hundreds of thousands who are really unemployed and are looking for a job. Equalizing people in short-term work with job-seekers is as wrong as simply unbearable. Secondly, The short-term work is based on a genuine employment relationship and thus on a contract of employment. It would be a massive interference in the freedom of contract, if the AMS could force these people to mediate. To be honest, it's quite amazing that you, as a liberal, are demanding something like this. The General Declaration of Human Rights and the ILO Convention provide for freedom of choice. If you want to switch from short work to another job today, of course, you can do it today. Whoever wants to stay in his job, please also, he has chosen this job. Everything else would really be a massive interference in freedom. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Only the idea that the AMS is forced to transfer someone from a self-selected job to another workplace is as unbearable as absurd. Last: The short work is - - – That stands in there! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Loacker.]] After what else is it if you are unemployed and transferable to the AMS? [[Inter-calls at the NEOS.]] You know the rules in the AMS, don't do that! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] In addition, short-time work is a temporary measure, and it is known that the time-consuming volume is also flexible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] This is precisely the advantage of short-time work, that in the event of an economic recovery, working time can be increased and adjusted relatively quickly. Accounting is known to be concluded. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] On such demands as they are raised, we can only say three times no, no, no. Short work is one of the most effective tools in the crisis to secure employment and income to support workers, and not to put additional pressure on them and to intensify existential concerns. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Reisinger]] It remains, and it will remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e12119	Next speaker: Mrs Fiona Vierde. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e12140	Mr President. High house! Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! In recent weeks, several press conferences have highlighted what new measures are being taken to overcome the labour market crisis. At the last press conference, Federal Minister Aschbacher once again told us that her labour market case is packed. But it is forgotten in the various conferences on a part of our society, although it has a population of almost the size of Klagenfurt. 85 323 of the unemployed reported are people with disabilities or with health restrictions. This corresponds to almost a quarter of the unemployed in Austria. These circumstances are not new, however, but the corona crisis is just a magnifying glass that shows the failure of recent years. I'll hold you here again: The unemployment rate of people with disabilities has increased by 120 percent over the last ten years. Behind each of these 85,323 people stands a single fate, the desire for a self-determined life. Let us just remember that nationally uniform personal assistance is still has always not been implemented! An inclusive school system, as called for by the UN Convention on the Rights of the Disabled, cannot even be spoken of as different laws apply in each country and therefore the jungle of competence would require enormous clarification. Finally, there is no awareness campaigns in all corners and ends in the population. Today, however, we remain in the labour market, everything else would go further. Mrs. Federal Minister, you are always talking about your work-market policy case being packed – but there is still no timetable. Let us see the current crisis as an opportunity, as a restart, to finally implement the demands that have existed for decades by representatives of various organisations, in order to give new confidence to people with disabilities too! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and by Mr Kucharovich and Mr Muchich.]] Many of you will hopefully remember: At the end of last year, we received a special report from the Public Procuratorate on “No Chance of Work – The Reality of People with Disabilities”. It is high time to implement the following requirements: to abolish the division of people with disabilities into workable and non-working persons; to create a separate social security scheme for people working in employment therapy workshops; and to examine and then implement new models of remuneration instead of the current pocket money system. [[We welcome the NEOS, as well as Mr Kucharovich and Mr Nussbaum.]] In circles of disabled organisations and self-representatives, these demands were by no means new, but to hear them from the People's Procuratorate, all of this, of course, has given even more effect. Finance Minister Blümel said today at the outset that this budget is expensive in response to the Covid crisis, but we can afford it. – Mr Minister, please also do your utmost to include people with disabilities in all areas, as provided for in our Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e12201	Mrs Tanja Graf is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e12225	Mr President. Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear viewer! Before I start my actual speech, I should like to address Mr Ragger's comments, who claimed that we had nothing to invest to stimulate consumption. I might be able to help you a little bit on the jumps: We have implemented a tax reduction. We have invested 450 euros for people who are unemployed. We have invested 360 euros for children who have now been paid out in September. All of this is investment to boost consumption. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Luke Hammer.]] I do not know where Mr Ragger is – as now seems to be back on vacation. [[Abg. Loacker: Have you looked at this in recent months? What consumption?]] Mr Loacker, I should now like to address your three requests. In your first request, you have submitted a proposal for a “freaky and economical short-time work” (No 846/A(E). My colleague, Mr Loacker, praised the fact that short-time work is one of the important measures to mitigate the economic impact of the corona pandemic. I agree with that, too, a hundred percent. Unfortunately, that is all in this proposal, which I can agree with, because the idea of introducing a bonus-malus-system for short work, which is to be controlled only afterwards, is, in fact, permanently contrary to the control plan of NEOS and, in my opinion, is too complicated, far too bureaucratic and not correct. I do not know how the transparency party NEOS presented itself to take over such control afterwards. In addition to the bonus malus system, there should be evidence of economic necessity, and this should be checked by the AMS as a billing agency for short work. The current regulation we have in the short work phase three already provides for an economic justification, only that, contrary to your request, the AMS does not make the assessment, but rather the tax advisors, the accountants or also the auditors of the respective company. They also have the competence and expertise for this assessment in order to produce a forecasting calculation. Mr Loacker also pointed out in the Committee that the costs of the tax advisor and the same for entrepreneurs are far too high. At this point, I allow myself to ask what data the AMS should be able to carry out such assessments if you wish to review them afterwards. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As an entrepreneur, I may also be able to help you with the jumps: It is our tax advisors, our accountants and our auditors who, if it happens afterwards, as provided for in your request, would have to pass on the data to AMS – so the cost bill does not apply. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In your second request, the confidence package is the one you want to create jobs with. In this application, you imagine that in the case of new settings, the social security scheme will be reduced to half for six months. That sounds great, but it's kind of familiar to me. It's anything but new or neo. In fact, it sounds very much like this famous integration aid already available in the AMS. Only, unlike your proposal, will this be paid out not automatically to each company, but more targeted and individual. That's a good thing. I don't know where the labour market is. They are active, but the labour market is not a rigid model, but very different. You know that too, we have different requirements in the federal states, and that is also good. The existing funding possibilities such as integration aid, restart bonus, educational bonus and soon the work foundation for which we take 700 million euros into our hands will and should also be used individually by us and not be distributed in a rigid corset as you demand, or with the casting can. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To the final request of the NEOS, in which they call for the introduction of a corona flower bonus: The Blum-Bonus was an apprentice promotion, which was abolished in 2008 – that is, nothing new, but something old. I can tell you a secret: Apprenticeship bonus 2020, this is the secret recipe. This year and next, we will provide 54.5 million euros, and 7 000 apprentices have already been supported. Perhaps I can say one more thing, Mr Muchich: The training guarantee up to 25 – which AMS board member Johannes Kopf has very well reported – has not been abolished, but it has not been added to the budget. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] To those seeking training: We have – the last number in autumn – 10,000 job seekers compared to 12,000 open apprenticeships. You know very well that we unfortunately have the problem east and west. It is therefore also important that we clarify the issue of mobility. I can also take advantage of the opportunity here and thank all entrepreneurs for using apprentices because it is our businesses that are training the skilled workers of tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e12295	Mr Worm, can you make your speech in 2 minutes or do you want to talk about it? Or should I interrupt you at 3:00? – You want to talk later. I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 8 to 11 of the agenda so that the urgent question requested can be dealt with at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'll just interrupt the meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e12330	I'll start the interrupted session again. By the way, there were three o'clocks in the old Parliament, and the President was always able to choose those who had just shown the right time. They were all slightly different. [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[15:00:14]] Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues in the Federal Minister for Social Affairs, Health, Care and Consumer Protection concerning ‘Per press conference in the Corona chaos: The responsibility of Minister of Health and Federal Chancellors for the Europe-wide spread of the Covid virus from Ischgl (3749/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e12375	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 3749/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13001	I give the floor to Mr Magistrate. Loacker is the first questioner to justify the request, according to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13022	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate viewers! Since Monday we have it black on white: The independent committee of experts has examined on behalf of the Tyrolean Landtag, what was the case in the management of the Covid-19 problem in Ischgl, and the picture – I think you can say – is more than disillusioning. Mistakes have occurred at all levels – in the community, in the district, in the country and in the federal government. By Landesrat Tilgs: We have “ done all things right ”!, not much remains. What went wrong in Tyrol, it explains the country day there, and here we look at what did not work on the federal side as it should have worked. We have a Council of State Tilg, politically, also in the federal government, and that is called Rudi Anschhober. Minister Anschober said: “I have no indication that errors have occurred at the federal level” – read in the “Kronen Zeitung” of 29. March. And: “We have put the right measures at the right time” – press conference on 6th. ==References== So this is not the way you sold it to the people today. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The independent committee of experts sees this differently from you and also lists a number of errors that can be attributed to the federal level, of course not all of them to you personally, but a whole series already. It is not just about outdated legal bases such as a stone-old epidemic law. It is about missing pandemic plans, it is about the lack of preparation for the evacuation of the valley, the lack of coordination between the different levels of administration. It is also about a hineing councillor of the professionally not competent German chancellor in health policy measures, without the knowledge of the executing authorities, by announcing quarantines from entire valleys. But it is also about you as Minister of Health, if you stand by and watch the Federal Chancellor do without being responsible, and are limited to always telling us about the infection numbers of March for six months. It is a question of misevaluations by authorities regarding the risk of infection, a lack of public relations and a policy that believes crisis management is done in front of the television cameras and not in action. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Let us begin chronologically to make this picture of the concept and planlessness of health policy, for which you are responsible, better understood here for the listeners! On 27.1. you said about the “Wiener Zeitung”: “The real flu is much closer and more dangerous to us than the corona virus.” On 12.2. you summarized in an issue: ‘All 105 coronavirus tests in Austria negative’, ‘influenza waves, on the other hand, continue to roll’. Well, okay, I don't want to be more papal now than the Pope. In mid-February, we didn't know so much about the corona virus. ==References== February – and then it was a little more immediate – but you explained that in direct flights from China, “extremely well-checked”. But then later you had to admit that it was limited to fever measurements and that you already need a lot of luck in fever measurements to figure out a corona case. ==References== You have said on February that you exclude border closures to Italy. What we had a few days later is known, and “What is my chatter about yesterday? ” have already said bigger spirits. ==References== In March, the Austrians received information from you via “Kronen Zeitung”, quote Rudi Anschhober: "We also do not recommend that the population wear protective masks." ==References====External links== March requested: “Will we all be on the road soon with masks?” and on 29 March. March you answered: “I don’t think so. But we will test in individual target groups the risk of a disease, some will then be equipped with masks. A comprehensive equipment has no meaning from my point of view. This is not necessary for everyday life.” A day later – please: a day later! – you are in short contact and have announced the masquerade obligation in the supermarket, in the traffic, in the post office and in the bank. Don't tell me you didn't know that a day before! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] ==References== March you have imitated the dog look of your Agur and explained: ‘At the moment, there are adequate protective masks for medical personnel.’ Two weeks later, a desperate doctor's chamber president pointed out to the public that for weeks they have needed a staggering mask for the hospitals and for the established area, and the medical chamber president said: ‘It simply doesn’t work. Many doctors were required to receive donations from the private sector so that they can work on at all. Some people from hospitals went to the next spa or Billa and took a mouth-nose protection there, because there was nothing left to do with them in the hospital. On 13.3., and now we are getting closer to the matter in time, you asked “The Standard”: ‘Do you exclude bans?’ Minister Rudi Anschhober answers: “Nothing of this is in planning.” – Yes, in the fragrant regulations one cannot of course speak of “planning” – under quotation marks. On 14.3. stands in the “Small Newspaper”, quote Rudi Anschober: “There will be no starting block” and on 16.3., two days after that, we have then received the starting restrictions, and I am not yet talking about the Easter decree, which came a few days later, which should even have limited private visits – a special highlight from your regulatory workshop. So what we can believe as a minister is based on the above quotations, I think, well underlined, and, valued listeners, remember when the Minister answers my questions afterwards, as that is. This can be quite different tomorrow than he tells us today. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Back to Ischgl: ==References== In March, Iceland notified Austria of the early warning and response system that there are Covid-19 cases due to Ischgl. The Ministry has passed this information on to the country of Tyrol, and yes, according to the Epidemie Act, once and for all, the district captain is responsible – but then nothing has happened. ==References== ==References====External links== On March 7th, nothing happened. On the 8th the Norwegians then reported themselves and also informed about the European warning system Covid-19 cases. [[Abg. Hear: Such a fool!]] – Mr Hörl will report afterwards, for he knows the sequence very well! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the NEOS and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Where's the coffin mask when you need it? [[Abg. Hörl keeps a mouth-nose protection up.]] ==References====External links== ==References====External links== In the Federal Government, of course, the Minister of Health is the highest authority. If those below do not comply with their obligations, then the position above has to give a direction to keep track of them. But you've done what you can best: look, watch and look away, and that's what I'm calling it. This sumptuous country captain and this sumptuous district captain should have turned up the turbo once. You did it at the mayor of Linz! When Luger said: You can have me with your traffic lights!, you have directed him on Twitter: Middelbare Bundesverwaltung, I'm the boss and tell you what to do! – That would have But they're supposed to do it with the Tyroleans. [[In the case of NEOS, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. It's funny.]] If the expert commission now comes to the conclusion that Ischgl is not available at the latest. In March, the responsibility lies primarily with the district captain, but not only because you are at the head of the directive chain as Minister of Health. They knew the international warnings and therefore you should have known that it is also about the international reputation of Austria. In these days, just 13th. March, Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz, Minister of Health Anschober and Minister of the Flex Nehammer are standing next to each other and giving a press conference. It is announced that the quarantine will be imposed on Saint Anton and on the Paznauntal; and yes, Mr Kurz said so. Then why do we address this urgent request to Rudi Anschober? - All right, please: If, in a government, the Federal Chancellor is at the front of it and in addition, the competent Minister of State, and the Federal Chancellor explains it, then the citizen may assume that they have discussed what is being presented before. It's a government that can be assumed to want the same. It may also be assumed that an ÖVP/Green federal government is in conversation with an ÖVP/Green government. One can therefore assume that all of this was in agreement – and Sebastian Kurz told the media yesterday that it was all in tune. Therefore, as the competent minister, you cannot get out of the affair. [[In the case of NEOS, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Amesbauer.]] So you both announced this, and yes, there was nothing agreed on in the expert report. The regulation was not ready and published, there was no plan for the evacuation of the Paznauntal, everything there was was this press conference – and the rest was chaos. ==References== March almost the start to a series of: Legalisation by press conference. We have experienced over and over the following weeks and months that things have been announced in press conferences, which have not been found in the law, in the regulation at all – keyword: There are only four reasons to leave the house, and other things. That this is worrying should have been learned, and that the consequences require should now also be known. On 13.3. you have not only acted unwisely through this regulation via press conference, but in the Paznauntal you have caused a huge chaos and provided for the successful export of the corona virus because now 11 000 infections are due to Ischgl across Europe. Of course, the Ischglers say: We have not invented it!, but the image damage for the Paznaun Valley, for the federal state of Tyrol and for the ski destination Austria as a whole is enormous, and you also have to be credited to a good part of it. [[In the case of NEOS, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Amesbauer.]] In the meantime, the system has had to look for measures to be announced and norm-based subjects, i.e. citizens, on the Internet, whether the regulation has already been published, which has been announced. You're actually damned as a citizen for permanent legal investigation. What the head of state of Salzburg did with the Tennengau regulation was exactly the same. This has been announced for a long time, but not yet online. You have set a new trend, which the heads of state follow very well. But what has happened in the last seven months? How did we get on with it? How has Austria become better and how have we become more crisis-resistant in the fight against pandemics? I claim today, seven months after the then famous press conference, that we are essentially where we stood in March. The government stumbles from week to week, and we are always waiting for the next press conference, which is going to get us back there. The Minister of Economic Affairs already fantasizes from the next lockdown, the Minister of Health says: No, Lockdown won't be anyone!, but we know from the COVID-19 Act that entry bans can also be imposed without it becoming a complete lockdown – so the uncertainty is spread. I would also like to remind you of the traffic lights that have been presented: You could have prepared the regulations for this throughout the summer, so that when the traffic lights are turned on, they can also be ordered – you didn't; the traffic light flashes in all colors, but the measures to the colors are pure arbitrary. I have already discussed it with Mr Neßler today: Let us take the example of the time spent in gastronomy, at 10 p.m. in the western Länder. That's what you ordered before the heads of state ordered it. Now in Upper Austria we have the blocking hour at 1 o'clock, in Salzburg the blocking hour at 10 o'clock for the restaurants, but for the hotel bars this does not apply, and in Tyrol it is 10 o'clock in the restaurant and in the hotel. In Vorarlberg it is different again, and over the border it is completely different. What are the factual reasons for these differences between Upper Austria, Salzburg and Tyrol? – There is no one who is looking for forgiveness. [[In the case of NEOS, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Ries.]] And although the Constitutional Court has already repealed regulations and pointed out that they were not sufficiently well-founded, there are again regulations that are not based on facts. What have we learned about the number of Covid patients? – We don’t know about the people who land in the hospital with us until today, what prediseases they had so that they can split it up. We don't know what medications the covid patients got otherwise. We don't even know from the deceased that you might be able to see which medications lead to a worse course or which alleviate a course. The data is underground, and what the Ages, for example, have – and it has a lot of things – they must not be available to Parliament at all. You may have that as a minister, but the Members here do not have it and do not get it either. Tracking and tracking doesn't work. Citizens get the results of their covid tests after five to ten days – I think you have held five to seven press conferences during this period. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] But then I don't have to do tracking and tracking anymore, because in the In the meantime, the infected person has already infected other people if it takes so long. Now you can say: Yes, the countries are responsible! – I believe that only partly, because at the end it always ends up with you as Minister of Health, because you are responsible for it within the framework of the indirect federal administration. [[In the case of NEOS, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Amesbauer.]] In the meantime, far more than 100,000 persons have been separated as contact persons first degree, but many of them never see a separate notice, which does not work, as does the district administration authority in central federal administration. These people need an employer who is graciously looking beyond the inability of the public system and people believe that they have been officially isolated because he doesn't want any trouble. However, they cannot provide him with a separate decision and it is not clear whether the first degree of isolation in these contact persons is at all the most necessary measure, in this enormous restriction of freedom. You haven't explained this to this day, seven months after the insanity began. What was still understandable in March, because the crisis was new and about Austria and other countries is surprisingly breaking in, can no longer be looked up today, seven months later. Another example: While the Germans have for months had a rule on how doctors are honoured for conducting covid tests, we have a legal provision in § 742 ASVG, but you have not yet adopted the regulation. Or the pandemic plan, which the expert committee also mounts: There is no such thing as this one did not exist in March, which is not available today. How will you proceed next winter if a valley is to be evacuated? Are there any evacuation plans? - There isn't. How schools are kept open, how the work process is kept in progress, all this remains in the dark. You're talking about having measures in the drawer, in your drawer. You have been in politics for so long, Minister, you could know that the moment you are talking about having measures in the drawer is where? - At the drawer. Everyone wants to know now: What else is he planning, what's he gonna do? This creates uncertainty, uncertainty among people, teachers, and entrepreneurs who are to invest. They are responsible for the uncertainty. [[It was in favour of NEOS and SPÖ and FPÖ representatives.]] So I'm saying, Seven months and 100 press conferences after the chaos in Ischgl, the government is just as far as it was then, and you are technically responsible, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13161	To answer the question, the Federal Minister for Social Affairs, Health, Care and Consumer Protection has now made a statement. - Please, Minister Anschober.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13182	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for the request, my first one in this house; I have had to wait long months – Mr Loacker, thank you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] – Writtenly there has been enough, that is right, there have now been almost 500. We are very much trying to provide concrete, correct answers, as we are today; maintaining them is the legitimate right of the House. Of course, if we cannot answer something as precisely as you wish today, I would like to be available for speech and answer in other areas of the House or at informal level. Perhaps at the beginning, Mr Loacker: You know, there are two realities. They say today everything we've done in the last seven months was bad. When I talk to the population, I hear the opposite. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I really say it to you very, very honestly: It's preferable to me, it's like the other way round. [[New congratulations to Greens and ÖVP.]] Second point: Yes, Mr Loacker, it is true that my expectations, my attitude, my assessment of this pandemic have always changed into details. This is because holding a pandemic is pretty much the most difficult to calculate, what there is at all. There are new developments every day. You can't know that every two or three weeks in advance – unfortunately. Think back with me – You have experienced this yourself, we have also discussed a lot with each other, also at the level of health speakers and health speakers – for example, on the subject of masculine duty! You quoted me there – correctly by the way, as generally quoted correctly – and the fact is that: There were, for example, completely different statements by experts in March, April. At that time, the World Health Organization also said: Don't bring anything, don't make sense! – That was extremely difficult in this situation, and that is it in part to this day. Today, we have the great advantage that we know much more than in the situation at that time, but yes, the factors of time and speed are a very big challenge in a pandemic and are also crucial as far as the measures are concerned. I shall then return to that in the case of the specific answer to the questions. And yes, in advance, every international expert group tells you, and the comparison figures also tell you: Austria has so far experienced relatively well through this first part of the pandemic, and that is the most important. The decisive measuring bar means: How many deaths and how many serious diseases are there in a country? I am proud of all those who have contributed to this – that is not just one, that is not just a ministry, we are in Austria together – that Austria is one of the very few industrialized countries that have such a low rate of deaths and so few serious cases of illness. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] When we look back honestly together, we remember the first days of the January of this year together! –, let us remember: We were all sitting in front of the televisions, Mr Dollinger of the ORF has sent the first reports from Beijing and Wuhan, and we have all considered: What does that mean for us now? Is it one of the many epidemics that has existed in recent years and decades, or is it more? – We did not know at the beginning of the then phase, 5th. Janen then announced WHO, China reports a novel lung disease – nothing, no details of what the effects are! ==References== The WHO report was then already significantly more worrying, at that time communicating that there are very, very strong indications that the virus is transferable from man to man. That was actually the biggest alarm call in the situation at that time. At the time, however, none of the major health organizations thought of a pandemic, let alone proclaim such a one. On 24.1. we said the first case in Europe, in France, on 25.2. the first case in Austria, namely in Tyrol two cases, concrete and correct. In Italy it was less than 300 cases at the time. 300 cases – this is unfortunately the case number of a federal country to see a little of the relations where we stood in Austria at the end of February. On 25.2. there were just the first two cases in Tyrol, on 27.2. the first cluster in Vienna. Then it struck: on 28.2. the first cases in Lower Austria and in Styria, on 29.2. in Salzburg, on 5.3. in Carinthia, Upper Austria and Vorarlberg the first cases, on 6.3. in Burgenland, and finally, on 11.3. – quite close to the data you mentioned, Mr Loacker, quoting the expert committee report from Tyrol – the World Health Organization has declared the Corona epidemic a pandemic. At that time, we have not yet known that it will be the most severe pandemic for 100 years, the most severe pandemic with 38 million confirmed cases now and with far more than a million deaths – estimates are more likely to go toward two million. There has been a very special exceptional situation in early to mid-March. We had – I have already suggested – little knowledge of the pandemic at that time, many, many contradictory assessments, as regards solutions and measures, there were the first series outbreaks throughout Austria, and – a very big problem, you have also mentioned it – it was a fact that we have largely missed the protective equipment that would have been necessary. At that time, we still believed that they would come. Why? – Most Austrian companies had signed contracts with German suppliers, but then we met Europe from the worse side, just as Europe should not be. ==References== On March 1, Germany issued the first export ban on these protective materials – like France by the way – and for me this was the most central challenge from this point on, because the most important thing is that medical personnel can be protected across Austria. We didn't know: Where do we get the material? The whole global market has collapsed. We have established a new organisational structure for procurement, we – several members of the Federal Government together – have forced and launched our own production. This has gradually brought this existential question of protective materials to the fore, but it has taken us until we have come to full supply; Figures later in the immediate response to the questions. On 4.3. and 5.3. there was the first information about infections, possible, probable infections from Ischgl. These were the famous e-mails that came from Iceland. Then eight challenging days followed until 12, 13.3. I would like to stress very clearly here: It certainly wasn't all well done on this question. I would like to express this deliberately, as a colleague from Tyrol has formulated, only reversed, vice versa: Yes, there have been mistakes, I see many of these criticisms that have been made by the Commission of Inquiry, in fact, as comprehensible criticisms from my point of view. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] These criticisms concern mainly the country of Tyrol, which is ultimately responsible, but you have rightly addressed a number of points to which I will come back when answering the questions. Today, shortly after the report of the Investigation Commission in Tyrol was presented, I have already agreed with the Tyrolean head of state that we will implement a joint work process to implement the recommendations of the Investigation Commission between the Federal Government and the State, and that we will gradually also involve other, similarly affected federal states – tourism keyword. We are taking this report very seriously, and it should also be implemented as quickly as possible and as consistently as possible. Yes, these were days of an exception, and from then on, 13. On the one hand, on the one hand, the Federal Government gradually drew on the competences – the first point – and there were discussions with the national leaders, and on the other hand, we – the Federal Government and the countries in common – then acted very quickly and consistently. Austria – I have already said it – has become one of the most successful countries in this area of combating the pandemic. However, this is not just a matter of measures – measures are not too different. Maybe a number: A lockdown has now realized 82 states in this world. My goal – and I think our all-out goal – is to put the appropriate measures in place now, so that there will never be a further lockdown in Austria. The third, and this is the decisive, is the right time: Making politics in times of pandemic means realizing the art of the right time. So far, we have been successful. We know from modeling tests that the implementation of the lockdown – in spring, in March of this year – would have meant a week later that we had four times more infections. [[Abg. Kickl: A week earlier!]] – A week earlier, Mr. Kickl, you were on it. The right time of the demand for a lockdown, by the way, much more comprehensively formulated than we then implemented it - – I find it exciting that one who otherwise impoverishs Corona now insists that one should have realized the lockdown earlier. [[Abg. Stefan: Then we would only have a sixteenth!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Well then we would have saved this!]] According to our research results, after our scientific evaluation, it was just the right time, Mr. Kickl. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, it is so important to look into the past – especially because of the fact that such a thing has been heard, and that is why I have always welcomed the Tyrolean Commission of Inquiry, and because we have to learn from history in all areas, I come back to it immediately afterwards – it is also crucial to see where we are currently standing. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, we now have the beginning of the extremely difficult period of autumn and winter. Worldwide, the number of infections is increasing massively – I have already mentioned the current figures – and Europe is currently absolutely concerned. Why? – Nearly one third of the world’s new infections in the first half of October are reported from Europe. This is an alarming development with regard to the health situation and also with regard to Europe's economic location. From Spain, Great Britain, France, almost explosion-like increases in infections are reported. Poland: The number of positive tests has doubled in a week. In the Netherlands, overload has made contact tracking a good deal, and today we count 7 400 new infections. [[Abg. Kickl: In school one would say: The theme is missing!]] France: 17 percent of all tests are positive, today there are 22 000 new infections, Mr. Kickl. In Belgium: last week plus 78 percent, today 8 326 infections. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger:... Reply! You can say that at a press conference!]] And in the Czech Republic, on average, we have 5,000 new cases a day. Meanwhile, 10 percent of doctors and 17 percent of nurses are infected in the Czech Republic. [[Abg. Worm: Sweden! Is there any figures on Sweden?]] What is it like in Austria today, ladies and gentlemen? – We are with 1,346 new infections at the same time 897 Neugenesen. However, we have carried out 17 000 tests over the last 24 hours, which means four times more tests than in March and April, so these figures are not comparable. However, there are some really alarming data, for example, we have had a positive rate of 7.9 percent in the last 24 hours. That's, as you know, extremely high. We too, Mr Loacker, have raised an important point in his explanatory statement of the question, have weaknesses in our system, areas where we need to get better: One important thing has been mentioned, which is the pace of testing and contact tracking in some federal states. Some are very, very fast – the vast majority, I would say now – in some we need significantly more staff so that the right time factor is actually achieved. We have a second problem, and this is the uncertainty of a part of the population – I think, coronavers have given us a bad service. Our plan for the next few weeks, Mr. Loacker, which you rightly called for, is to continue to evaluate the first federal measures – we have already implemented two major regulations in September – and perhaps to inculcate them in a number of key points. Secondly, we want to use the traffic lights intensively. It really provides us with very, very good services in the field of risk assessment, also the translation by the traffic lights for the understanding of the general population works well, and the regional measures that can now be put by the districts show good results. Our goal is to intercept the peaks. The third point is to greatly increase the pace of contact person management. We have therefore launched a separate support group of the Ages, which supports the federal states when there are delays in time. In this context, we also want to force the coronaapp clearly. Fourth: We will further develop the test strategy of Austria, including using the antigen test, the lamp test procedure, and we will integrate and allow established doctors in this system – which is now also legally possible – to carry out such testing – especially in times of many parallel infectious diseases, and we want us to re-establish a basic mood as in spring with regard to the implementation by the population. Now specifically on the individual detail questions: Question 1: On the morning of 13 March, a video conference was held by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and parts of the Federal Government with head of state Platter and other heads of state. Landeshuptmann Platter communicated that he had commissioned the closure of the ski area. We supported and welcomed this massively. In this regard, the exit management for the closure of the ski area was discussed at the morning meeting of the SKKM. Information on the virological situation in Tyrol and at the federal level was also exchanged at this video conference. In all cases of pandemic control, internal communication via the federal and country crisis bars took place in this phase too. Prior to the press conference on 13 March at 2 p.m., both in Tyrol and at the federal level, the bars were informed to make preparations. It should be borne in mind that the desired orderly exit of over 10,000 people – tourists and tourists – is a process for which there is no experience and which is difficult to implement even with a longer planning time. On question 2: On 13.3., as already stressed, consultation with national leaders took place. Content was the strongly increasing figures throughout Austria, especially in Tyrol. It was discussed about possible measures, including on the basis of the models of then internationally successful countries. Tirol informed about the planned end of the winter season and the closure of the Ischgl ski area. Following the meeting, Mr. Bundeskanzler telephoned with the head of state Platter and discussed the issue of the quarantine of areas. In Tyrol, there was a sharp increase in the number of infections, especially in the district of Landeck. Following the meeting with the heads of state, German Chancellors, Health Ministers and Interior Ministers provided. All three concluded that the Paznauntal and Saint Anton should be isolated. The Federal Chancellor informed this about Tyrol; both in Tyrol and at the federal level, the bars were informed to make preparations. Question 3: See Questions 1 and 2. The issue of quarantine was discussed at the political level between the Federal Government and the head of state of Tyrol. The procedure is clearly regulated in the Epidemic Act. The Bra Landeck has taken the appropriate steps in the way. Questions 3, 4, 5 and 6: The processes shall be evaluated continuously and adjusted where appropriate. I am in contact with the country of Tyrol on the question of the lessons learned from the report of the Tyrolean Commission of Inquiry. A common process for the implementation of all the recommendations of the Commission of Inquiry is being launched. This is already, as discussed earlier, packed with the head of state of Tyrol, and we will soon start the joint process of implementing the recommendations of the Tirol Investigation Commission. Question 7: See the explanations in the introductory remarks at the beginning of the reply. As early as February, the Ministry of Health has already sent the corresponding concrete opportunities to enable the countries to combat the pandemic effectively. In March – when the Epidemie Act was too small and in view of the competence of the District Headships as little practical – the way was chosen not to adopt the Epidemie Act in principle, but to adopt a specifically tailored COVID-19 Act, which was adopted unanimously here in this House at the time of the pandemic. Question 8: This point of criticism of the state of Tyrol's public relations in two specific points, as far as the first half of March is concerned, is absolutely understandable to me from today's point of view. However, dealing with the corona pandemic, the world's largest health crisis in recent decades, is indeed a particularly challenging activity for all, of course also for regional health authorities. We all, experts, authorities, politicians and the population, have learned a lot in recent months. My ministry therefore places great emphasis on the greatest possible transparency and information work on the state of the art. In this sense, 76,489 written and 41,604 telephone requests have been answered. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[The speaker drinks from the water glass provided at the speaker's desk.]] – Thank you for the short break. On the question 9: Work on a comprehensive modernisation of the 1950 Epidemic Law was started before the beginning of my term of office. At the beginning of the term of office, there was a non-finalized draft discussion, but it did not contain sufficient legal basis as we would have needed for the current pandemic. In the course of the immediate pandemic fight, therefore, the time-limited COVID-19 Act was created instead of a fundamental revision of the Epidemic Act. However, I have already given the order that, after the end of the pandemic, a comprehensive revision of the 1950 Epidemic Act, especially in relation to this very difficult balance between fundamental rights intervention and health protection, be carried out. We can build on good preliminary work and in addition allow the experience from the Corona pandemic to be incorporated. On questions 10 and 11: 2005 was an influenza pandemic plan – please be careful: in the expert committee, the investigative committee was generally formulated: Pandemic Plan – prepared for Austria by the Ministry of Health. In 2016, the competent department in the Ministry of Health started the revision involving national anity management and external stakeholders, such as the Med-Uni Wien, the Ages et cetera. The recast of the influenza pandemic plan was presented to the cabinets Oberhauser, Rendi-Wagner, Hartinger-Klein and Zarfl for publication. Also, due to the constant change of political responsibility – very short-term – there was no publication in this department. However, I myself have also seen considerable need for optimization in the sense of creating a pandemic plan not only focused on influenza. The influenza pandemic plan, as the name says, deals primarily with an influenza pandemic. He could not have faced the present challenges of the Covid-19 Pandemic. All key points of the influenza pandemic plan have been communicated and implemented for the management of the Covid pandemic. A general Austrian pandemic plan is currently being finalized, drawing on the experience of recent months as well as experts and involving scientific findings. This will in future be an appropriate guideline for similar pandemics. This general Austrian pandemic plan is being put on completely new legs on the basis of the current experience with the Covid Pandemic and, as has been said, is currently in finalization. Question 12: We are in constant exchange with the tourist regions concerned. It is particularly important that the tourism industry itself is particularly active. I have the impression that this is really the reality to create security as a key to tourism and to get through the crisis together. Together with the Ministry of Tourism, the countries and industry representatives, we have developed a concept for safe winter tourism. This concept shows that safety and tourism are well compatible. In Tyrol a Tyrolean crisis and disaster management centre was created with a country coordinator. It reviews and redefines the previous crisis and disaster plans for the current pandemic situation. It is prepared for various scenarios, including possible evacuations and isolations of valleys and individual areas. This procedure is also in line with the recommendations of the Rohr report that such plans must be available until the start of the winter season. Finally, with the joint work process launched with the country of Tyrol, we have, in particular, a recommendation on this point which we want to implement together. On the question 13: The preparation was carried out professionally in cooperation with the various departments of the Federal Government, the health representatives of the federal states, the national anity directors and including the expertise from the medical and legal advisory staff. One of the key results of this preparatory work for the autumn, which we carried out in the summer, was a separate action plan against a second Covid-19 wave. The action plan against the second Covid-19 wave was adopted on 29 July. It was decided by the Federal Government in the Council of Ministers in July. This includes the following areas: Test strategy, procurement of protective equipment for the established area and construction of the strategic warehouse, strengthening of contact person management, compliance with quarantine measures, analysis of the infection chains, traffic lights as an instrument for effective risk analysis, procurement of flu vaccine, prevention and procurement of Covid-19 vaccines on the international market, and safeguarding of medicines for the treatment of Covid-19. In addition, the preparation and review process for the novel of the Epidemie Act and the COVID-19 Act and the preparation of appropriate regulations for concrete federal measures. Question 14: The amendment to the COVID-19 Act obliges the national leaders and the district authorities to forward regulations to the Ministry of Health before their entry into force under the Epidemic Act and the COVID-19 Act. This offers the possibility, if necessary, to intervene with instructions. Question 15: During a crisis, it is essential to inform the public well about the development and the measures to be taken. These are central pillars of crisis communication. I also believe it is important that the Federal Government should act as a team and with a common voice. Of course, it is planned that, in the run-up to a press conference, the agencies responsible for implementation will of course also be in line with the facts. By anchoring the COVID-19 Act to the need for regulations to be submitted to the Corona Commission, it is also guaranteed that an external assessment and assessment will be carried out in good time. On the question 16: Yes, the national documentation of all measures is ensured. Both the specific measures and the relevant regulations are shown on corona-ampel.gv.at since the first regional measures. They are transparent and presented in order by federal states and districts. In addition, all this information on legal acts is also available on the website of the Ministry of Social Affairs. ==References== On 9 October, the Ministry of Health, based on the new possibilities provided for in the COVID-19 Act, issued a specific decree on the notification of regulations by the head of state and district authorities to the heads of state which requires the competent authority to forward the approved Regulation to the Ministry of Health before the entry into force. In addition, it is also necessary to implement regulations which will bring such regulations back into force. Meanwhile, all the federal states are shown on the corona-ampel.gv.at website and thus any regional additional arrangements are indicated. On the question 17: Available evidence and expert assessment are included in the act. It shall be involved in the constitutional service before any adoption of a regulation. External legal experts are also being supported. The Heads of State or BVB are also bound, as formulated earlier, to document the relevant circumstances in the act of adoption of the regulation. I also recalled this again by decree of 2.10.2020. On question 18: ad a) two Regulations, ad b) four, ad c) 19. The total number of regulations adopted is 119, but some of them are already out of date. On question 19: In accordance with the applicable version of the COVID-19 Act, the Corona Commission must be heard prior to the adoption of regulations, which constitutes another rail of quality assurance. The risk analyses of the Corona Commission will also be published on the traffic light website. Question 20: The Ages invited all club members to the trade conversation Corona with the experts of the Ages. Two dates have now been proposed, i.e. 1st and 9th respectively. November. Anyone who hears in public the statements of individual representatives of the Ages, who sometimes also conflict with my personal position, will know that there is no pressure or anything similar. It is the need and commitment of a scientist and a scientist to present the knowledge, the competence unstained and clear and to make it available to the House, if there is such an interest. That is what I stand for, and that is why we will implement it quickly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] – You know, the colleagues of the Ages are quite tense at the moment, very tense. [[New call of the abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] On question 21: Since February 2020, 18 lawyers have been admitted to the central management, 16 of them as administrative practitioners. Legal competence is needed throughout the department, not just in the field of health. Since July 2020, more recruiting has been done in the health field, with the above 18 VBs having been included exclusively for the health sector since June 2020. On question 22 – this is also the answer to questions 26 and 28 –: All of our actions and actions are aimed at preventing a second lockdown. I am still optimistic that we can do the same. The revision of the COVID-19 Act also makes it clear that a lockdown would only be possible in the extreme case, in the event of a threatening global collapse of our health system, and only with the agreement of Parliament's main committee. With the Coronamepel, Austria is also available an excellent and transparent risk analysis instrument, which is not based on infection figures alone. They know the four specific parameters for risk classification. The strategic plan for the next few weeks and months has already been presented by Mr Loacker's specific question in the introductory remarks. On the question 23: see question 22. Question 24: The situation is currently being evaluated daily, as we have been doing for weeks and months. Of course, it is a professional approach to be prepared for all the events of the development of the pandemic and the forms of spread. At present, however, the focus is mainly on targeted regional measures. The specific measures are based on the epidemiological situation and risk assessment of the traffic light commission, but of course we also evaluate the need for further federal measures. On question 25: As has already been explained several times by me and my colleagues in the government, we will not limit the private life of people in Austria. However, we are calling for solidarity and understanding here. It is about wise everyday decisions to be made responsibly by each and every individual. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On the question 27: In principle, all measures are based on scientific evidence. However, it is also necessary to make pragmatic policy decisions at the end of the day, in the presence of the appropriate recommendations and proposals. We know, for example, that a quarter of fewer social contacts mean almost halving the risk of infection. The epidemiological situation is therefore continuously evaluated. At regional level, the risk assessment has already brought about more restrictive measures at the end of the period. We are also in touch with the federal states on this issue. Final decisions on any further changes have not yet been taken. On question 28: see question 22. On question 29: There are currently no preparations for a general masquerade obligation in the open. Question 30: I attach importance to a data protection-compliant solution on the question of registration in the gastronomy or other areas in order to facilitate the follow-up of contact persons, and this is – you know – as not easy. However, the possibility of guest registration is certainly an aid to speed up contact tracking for the authorities. All that counts when controlling the virus is the speed of contact tracking. My department has therefore presented a proposal for a law on voluntary registration for customers, employees, visitors et cetera in the assessment draft to the Epidemic Act in August. According to data protection criticism of this passage, which, however, had not reached a political majority in Parliament, as there were considerable resistances from various areas, this proposal was dropped again. Although companies and customers cannot currently be required to register, this is currently well accepted on a voluntary basis. Many people seem to be aware because of their own responsibility that they protect themselves and others by registering when visiting a guest house or café. The city of Vienna has also chosen this route, and I expressly support the objective pursued by it. On question 31: The total number of ads since 16.3.2020 is 36 739, the total number of organ mandates since 11. ==References====External links== The sum of the fines imposed must be collected by the district authorities. You will understand, Mr Loacker, that this has not yet been possible in these five hours. I can, however, offer to deliver it in a written way. On question 32: The administrative criminal proceedings – and there is, of course, the same answer in broad outlines – are led by the BVBs as the competent health authority under the COVID-19 Act, so there can be no statement in the short term, but the competent authorities have to be dealt with on-site, and we will do so. On question 33: The issue of criminality in connection with penalties imposed and already paid in the course of the corona measures has been examined in detail by the Ministry of Health, among other things. Immediately after the VfGH knowledge of July, I commissioned my home as well as external legal experts, including the Constitutional Service and designated top judges from the area of constitutional and administrative law. The VfGH had only a partial custody, which was often mixed in the public debate. The persons concerned in the proceedings before the VfGH, as well as all those who brought an appeal against the fines imposed and whose proceedings were ongoing, did not have to pay the penalty, or were reimbursed. All ongoing proceedings concerning the repealed parts of the regulations were terminated on their own initiative. In principle, however, a general amnesty in the actual sense of the word is not constitutionally possible in the opinion of all experts. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The current legal situation does not permit the withdrawal of already legally matured acts. A change in the legal situation could cause more problems than solutions in the sense of a precedent and system failure, the experts in question tell us. With the last novel of the Epidemic Act and the COVID-19 Act, we have also re-regulated the criminal provisions and thus significantly reduced the level of punishment. In addition, we have already determined in the COVID-19 lockdown regulation in accordance with § 11a that the police must, at least, refrain from punishment, provided that the legal state can be restored by relief. However, the current statements of the President of the Constitutional Court have moved me to contact him again – as this is an absolutely relevant expert opinion for me – so that he can tell us what his assessment and interpretation is and what this path might look like from his point of view in accordance with the law. However, we still have the corresponding discourse in front of us. On question 34, with that on the 24th. December: My goal is clear: All people in Austria are to celebrate a happy, happy and, above all, healthy Christmas. We have therefore already established clear rules for Christmas markets. That was, as you can remember, in a package containing the overall arrangements for winter tourism. For big cities like Vienna, it is an absolutely essential tourist area that Christmas markets are possible. We have therefore established clear rules for Christmas markets, especially prevention concepts. For the private Christmas celebrations, which I have already presented for the private sector as a whole: Decisions should be made as wisely, responsibly and with due regard as possible. We know that even small behavioural adjustments in everyday life have significant effects – to protect risk groups, as well as to protect our health system. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] On question 35: A total of 18 million breath protection masks of the quality FFP 2 and FFP 3, 73 million OP masks, 88 million gloves, 1.5 million protection overalls, 1 million virus test sets, 30,000 pulse oximeters and 685 breathing devices as well as some other products such as disinfectants that I did not list in literature. But we can do so if there is an interest. With the exception of about 70,000 breath protection masks – that is, about 0.4 percent of the total amount – all products have already been delivered and distributed to the demand carriers in Austria or for the strategic stockpiles for the German army. The still outstanding products will definitely be delivered this year, we will be insured. On question 36: First of all, I would like to say that a number of health guidelines have been drawn up by our department since February 2020. These are addressed to authorities or individual actors in different areas. All this information and technical information can be found on the website of the Ministry of Health – extra indicated. These include currently nine specialist information – such as test strategy, contact person management, administrative handling of children and young people – eleven further recommendations for health care – protection measures, visitation schemes et cetera –, six recommendations for old and care homes, and institutions for people with disabilities, seven recommendations and guidelines for other areas – from bath hygiene to sex work to prevention concepts et cetera – five further recommendations for action on mental health as well as the information materials for the population on protection measures. On question 36 a: Austria is because, through the EMS electronic reporting system, all authorities and the Ages are interconnected, in an international comparison, in a very good starting position with regard to the data of the health sector. This is not my achievement, it was designed long before my time and represents an absolutely leading situation in Europe. The data situation is also determined by the laboratory reports. Via standardized HL7 interfaces, a continuous electronic process without media breaks is now possible. The health telephone 1450 plays a central role in the pandemic. A daily monitoring of the number of calls has therefore been established, which provides important indications of epidemiological events. This means that we can see where the dark figure is increasing, whether in certain regions we have special sensitivity on this issue et cetera. This is, of course, also analysed. At the beginning of the Covid-19 Pandemic in Austria in March 2020, a regular - i.e. a weekly - collection of sleeping capacity in hospitals including rehabilitation facilities, differentiated in normal care and intensive care, as well as in additional facilities – such as fair halls, spa facilities et cetera – were introduced by means of the country crisis bars. Furthermore, the level of breathing equipment and its current utilization as well as the staff available was also raised on intensive equipment. In addition, an ongoing survey of the existing critical articles, such as the above-mentioned protective equipment, disinfectants et cetera, and their needs at country level for health and care facilities took place. On question 36 b: Based on the experience in other countries – for example China, Italy and others – we have seen that the rise in Covid-19 cases can be very, very dynamic and rapid – our neighboring Czech Republic has also shown us this in a very sad way for three weeks – and in a short time can lead to an overload of the health care system. It was appropriate to prepare hospitals and other health and care facilities for possible developments, e.g. by maintaining sufficient sleeping capacity, especially in intensive areas, through visitation arrangements and through measures to protect workers and the persons to be cared for. Furthermore, it was also rapidly apparent that it is particularly important to protect facilities with particularly vulnerable groups of persons, such as pension homes, care facilities and disabled homes, through special measures. The Covid strategies of other countries have been and will be continuously structured, monitored on our behalf by the health of Austria and transmitted the results to our house. From today's point of view, gross similarities and differences can be identified in detail of the respective approaches, final statements on which measures are the most effective, but cannot be completely derived from them at this time. On questions 36 c and d: Special code numbers for Covid-19 disease were introduced by March 2020 in accordance with the WHO proposal for the diagnosis and performance of hospitals and for suspected cases at Covid-19 in all hospitals in Austria. In addition, it was agreed with the Land Health Fund that the health care authorities' diagnostics and performance reports will be sent to the Ministry of Health every month to monitor the performance in the hospitals on a regular and timely basis and to take appropriate control measures if necessary. On question 36 e: Together with the Austrian Society for Anaesthesiology, Reanimation and Intensive Medicine, a proposal for a special intensive register for Covid-19 cases was developed and a corresponding survey of all cases treated on intensive care facilities since the beginning of the pandemic in Austria was agreed. The database is set up in Austria's health, with a draft regulation for data reporting to this register. In accordance with this proposal, data protection in compliance with the intensively medically treated Covid-19 cases should include the following information: Indications for hospital or intensive stay, health condition such as side-effects and complications – this was an absolutely correct and important point that Mr Loacker referred to on his explanatory statement – the therapy including medication – also important – the course of therapy and the duration of the stay in the intensive care facility. On question 36 f – we are still on question 36 –: Since treatment with reconvalescent plasma can have a positive impact on the course of disease – we have several cases in Austria – this is a possibility of treatment as long as no other treatment options such as a vaccine or antiviral medicinal products are developed, tested and approved. That is, we consider this question of the reconvalescent plasma to be quite important and significant. However, it should be noted that at present there is no complete evidence of the positive effect of this form of therapy regarding a Sars-Cov-2 infection in general. I should also like to refer to the answer to parliamentary questions 1664 and 2558. Mr Loacker, should I quote these answers? – I don’t think it’s necessary – thank you. Nevertheless, my competent department monitors situation and evidence. To this end, my department is in close contact with the EU and has participated in the preparation of the guideline for the collection and transfusion of Covid-19-reconvalescent plasma and its update – I think this is a very important and promising way. Furthermore, it is in exchange for optimising the database of covid-reconvalescent plasma with the European Union, which aims to promote the formation of evidence. Among other things, several projects have been launched at EU level to elucidate the evidence of treatment with reconvalescent plasma in covid-19 infections, which my department is interested in. My department is in constant exchange with the blood donation centres, some of which are also actively involved in the previously mentioned EU CCP. In addition, in March 2020, the Austrian Institute for Health Technology Assessment was commissioned by us to perform a Horizon Scanning on therapy options and vaccinations. Information is always publicly available on the Institute's website. On question 36 f i: I have opted for a transfer of information, since, as mentioned above, treatment with reconvalescent plasma can be an alternative as long as no other form of therapy is available, and I strive to inform the Austrian population, especially in the sense of strengthening health competence. On questions 36 g and h – it is still the question 36 –: On questions g and h, I can refer to the EU-CCP database when answering question 36 f. On question 36 i: International data exchange activities with ICD-10 diagnostics and pharmaceutical data are not known to the department. There is also no information available at the moment on exchange activities at the hospital and institution level. Health Austria, however, is a member of initiatives and networks of national public health institutes, European Commission departments and some national health and data agencies, where there is a Europe-wide and there and there also global exchange of evidence, experience and possible measures. Furthermore, the exchange opportunities are used at international congresses from the European Health Forum Gastein to the just-running World Congress on Public Health. On questions 37 and 38: There is no explicit data cooperation with individual scientific institutions, but general access for accredited institutions. The data for research is provided by means of the Covid-19 data platform, which was specifically set up for this purpose. The data base for the data platform is the statistical register according to § 4a of the Epidemic Act. However, in the statistical register, the data of hospital patients are not centrally recorded. This report is currently being made monthly by means of diagnostic and performance documentation in the stationary area on the basis of the Federal Law on Documentation in Health Care. The following data – you have asked – are transmitted by means of a data platform: a randomly generated track number, first: Date of diagnosis, second: Date of death, third: Gender, fourth: Age in single years, fifth: Date of recovery, sixthly: Nationality, seventh: City ID number. For accreditation statistics: Accredited entities we currently have 46, data transmissions 33 and in the contract creation phase 13. As regards the provision of hospital data, a separate Covid-19 intensive register is established to provide clinical data for research. As the register also includes personal data, a legal basis is required. The relevant preparatory work is in progress. In addition, it should be noted that the public dashboard of the Ages currently provides a variety of epidemiological indicators for Austria at national and regional level. All the basics for the representations are available as download and can therefore also be used for scientific purposes. On the question 38: Question 38 was also answered with question 37. Question 39: The Austrian test strategy is available on the website of the Ministry of Health, stand 13.10.2020. These are technical recommendations based on international standards. Children, kindergartens and schools: For children, a separate approach was developed for the summer before school, together with children's infectiologists and pediatric specialists, when to test and which people must be in quarantine. This is noted in a separate document on the homepage. On question 40: No, there are no federal requirements here, analogous to all other diagnostic procedures. In order to ensure quality and make comparabilitys, laboratories are obliged to participate in ring tests. The ring tests show how well laboratories detect an infectious sample. As a result, the comparability and quality assurance are produced. The PCR test remains due to the low sensitivity of the currently available tests of the gold standard to prevent an infection with Sars-Cov-2. Antigen tests can be used as a supplement and to protect the PCR test resources. Part of the test strategy is also an algorithm that explains when to use antigen tests and whether they should be tested with PCR or not. These are technical recommendations based on international standards. Question 41: Antibody rapid tests by Wantai have been and will be used within studies on the collection of seroprevalence and thus the darkness of the people who have already undergone the infection. This is also illustrated in programme line 4 of our screening program, which also includes a representative Austrian-wide study, which is currently in rollout. On question 42: These data are collected by the Ages in their cluster analyses and are thus also incorporated into the traffic light commission. The relevant conclusions will then also be published. On question 43: This number is routinely raised by the federal states. Since there is no legal reporting obligation here, no detailed statement can be made. ==References== I once had the crisis staff raise once from the federal states how many people it was in general – so all positive and all contact persons in category 1 and all suspicions that have received a short secretion, because there were suspicious symptoms, but then they were tested negatively. ==References====External links== A total of around 150,000 persons was reported on August 1. Often, the bras “Familiesescheide” – I put it under quotation marks, because the technical term is of course another – are exhibited. Therefore, a very precise survey is not possible. According to our current number, the state of all positive tests is up to today – we know that exactly – at 58,879. In a positive case, we are currently expecting two to ten contact persons first degree. That is to say, we can expect an estimate of around 220 000 people in total. We will conduct a corresponding survey of the BVBs. On question 44: There is no information available to me and my department for this purpose. These data will not be transmitted to my department via any means of reporting. And on question 45 – ladies and gentlemen, that is the last question: This regulation is in the final political vote. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13554	They have heard the comprehensive answer. We are now going into the debate. I should like to draw attention to the fact that each speaker has a maximum of 10 minutes of speaking time, and that each club has a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff is speaking on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13584	Mr President. Mr Bundeskanzler, excuse me, Minister of State! – The Chancellor of the Federal Republic comes later. – I have to thank you very much for your ministry. It has never been possible, as I believe, to fill an hour of speaking time during this short preparation period in a urgent request. I believe that a part of the appeal that has been made before will also apply to the preparation. [[I should like to say that I am very pleased to see NEOS and Greens, as well as MEPs of the ÖVP.]] As far as the content is concerned, however, I must honestly say that this request was partly not or only very, very superficially answered and can be very little started with the answers. I am beginning with the question of blood plasma, where you have said very well to colleagues Loacker that there have already been questions. Yes, there were inquiries, there were, I think, from our side even three or four, but you never answered them. You never mentioned the numbers we wanted, and that's why that's the question. You have to say that, too. I come to two of my favorite questions, which are Question 5 and Question 24. Question 5 is the question of whether you have advised the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to refrain in the future from publishing measures through press conferences. Question 24 is the question of what measures you have in your drawer. Do you know how you just answered both questions? When you listen carefully, you know: This will be evaluated both. – Do you evaluate your own drawer? So that's really not to understand, and that's more ridiculous. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I have found it very exciting how at the beginning of your answer to the question you have just begun to talk about your popularity and that there are two realities and it is not so important to you whether Mr Loacker likes you. I can understand that personally, but in fact this question is not about how popular you are with the people, but about what is in this report by the independent committee of experts on Ischgl, and there is an extermination in it. That you just swipe and say, well, but I'm popular, that's what I find last-class. [[We welcome the NEOS and Mr Kainz and Mr Ries.]] Generally, during your one hour performance, I had a little feeling that you were taking the motto with you: There is no explanation for everything in our lives, but there is certainly a suitable excuse. This is the motto that we hear all the time during the corona crisis from the entire government. It's a sulphur, it's excuses, but it's actually not the point of saying: Hey, we're making mistakes too! - It doesn't happen. Nor do we apologize for these mistakes, Landesrat Tilg is a parade example. Landesrat Tilg, we have already heard from colleagues Loacker, only sat there in one of the legendary interviews in the “Time in Picture 2” – next to yesterday’s President – and he has said all the time that he has done everything right. [[Rejoicing with the NEOS]] Everything was done right – just the same thing we experienced yesterday at the Federal Chancellor, who said in response to this report: All decisions have been grandly agreed. – Unfortunately, it is not true, as you can see, when you read the report carefully. I quote literally, page 139: ‘The announcement of the quarantine on the Paznauntal and St. Anton a. A. by the Austrian Chancellor without his immediate competence, surprising and without regard to the necessary substantial preparation.” – The Federal Chancellor, however, takes his stand and says: We did everything right, that was all agreed. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That's exactly what these excuses are, that's exactly this denial that there are also mistakes in what we're experiencing all the time. This is, I believe, not to be comprehensible or to be inconceivable to the population. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Since the Federal Government wants to talk about this, I quote from the expert report again, page 81, that's about the departure – that's very readable, by the way, because it describes very detailed what happened on site. There are words like “panic mood”, which was triggered by this press conference of the Federal Chancellor, in which you stood by the way. If you read through the protocols what you said there, it is noted that you did not talk about the quarantine we have in Austria, but about the numbers of any other countries or Lombardy - exactly what you have done today. [[Abg. Loacker: Lombardy!]] The report speaks of the fact that people have left the valley “fleet-like” that it came into traffic jams. These dams were 15 kilometres long. A few pages further, in this report, mentions the agreement of a bus operator who has infected himself in this traffic jam, as he says, because he was “sitting five to six hours in the bus”. This congestion, which the Federal Chancellor and you co-indebted, is responsible for the partial illness of the people. It was a corona store that you triggered with your unthinking approach. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] People were afraid, there was – and I quote from the report – “a total chaos”. This federal government has made nothing but a total chaos. Everyone then sit down and say: everything done right. However, words such as panic, chaos and so on are quite to be mentioned, and I do not think they should be ignored. It is precisely because of this that something has arisen, which we all and especially the Tyroleans today very, very hurt, namely this negative image that we have taken from it. You are often distracted, and that is exactly what you, the Federal Government, are doing. They say: We were not prepared and one could not have imagined it!, and so on and thus push off the responsibility locally. They shift responsibility to the local people, and now they come to the handcushion for the second time: First of all, they have missed the first winter tourism season, and because of your shift, through this negative image, for which you, together with the Federal Chancellor, are also responsible, through this total chaos, which has gone through the international media – the white colleague Hörl – it is also this year so that it will be extremely difficult for cable car industry, for tourism in winter, because people will simply no longer come. The Federal Chancellor is responsible for this and you are responsible for it. [[Congratulations on the Neos.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Schmidhofer.]] It is also very exciting to read in this report how other communities have done, as has happened in other communities – without the “great” necessary help of the Federal Government. [[with hands indicating quotation marks]] There it worked, there was a coordinated departure management. These valleys did not have these problems, because there was no such situation there, that the Chancellor and the other suspects stood up and, without thinking about it, without thinking about who is actually responsible, who can actually take the measures, and without consultation with the local authorities, simply said: Juhu, press conference, we are doing something here now, whose consequences are known to all of us. In the final effect, Ischgl was a kind of open-air prison. People were really afraid they were locked up there, not going on. This panic was simply overcome, and this is quite clear from this report. You have to say openly and honestly – and now I take up your justifications, which you, the Federal Chancellor and other ministers have repeatedly brought: Of course, this was an exceptional situation. Of course, this was an exceptional situation in which a lot of things go fast, and mistakes can happen from time to time – then you should apologise for it, that is a second topic – but they happen all the more often, if it is, as in this case: that you have power in your head and you simply have no idea what to do, and accordingly do not agree with the local authorities, that as Federal Chancellor does not agree with you as Minister of Health, not with the Minister of the Interior – all of this is in this report – not with the Cabinet staff. Then Saint Sebastian is when he stands there and makes his statement and does not agree, the one coming to the handcushion. Such things happen when one loses the relation to reality if one does not live in reality and is simply removed in his circle at home. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] And they happen especially when you forget that government is more than just holding press conferences. That is exactly what we have experienced much too often in the last few days and months. These press conferences may not be so dangerous in normal times, because it is not so obvious if you talk a lot of hot air if you don't get so much out of it. It works. But if one sows panic in such a situation in such press conferences, then it becomes disastrous and then one harms tourism, the cable car industry, the local people, the health of people on the ground and the Republic as a whole, because this image will still accompany us for a long time, and we cannot and do not want to leave it so that it will simply continue to be done. I believe that it simply does not fit in with the concept of the ÖVP in particular, that it is also necessary to assume responsibility as federal chancellors. It is so in my perception that there will never be responsibility and one very much likes to push it away. That is, I think, just a principle in the turquoise Bible: How am I going? – With success, I put the Federal Chancellor and the Minister Muppets in the first row and let them celebrate their success, but when it comes to taking real responsibility when something goes wrong, then everyone is quiet, then I move it to others. That's exactly what's happening here, and that's not to be accepted. That is why I would like to see a different approach to these issues in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13699	Mrs Schwarz is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13720	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, you hear and see us now! I have, well, a little different perception of what we have just heard. I would just like to say one thing: We've been in a situation we've all never been in for seven months now. We are in the biggest health crisis, in the biggest economic crisis for decades, and those who have ever faced crisis management know what crisis means. At the first moment, it says: a tremendous time pressure to make decisions, take responsibility. And I would like to stress this at this point: This federal government has taken on responsibility from the first moment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In his reply to the question, the Federal Minister made it very clear how the communication chain worked in the case of Ischgl. There was probably a notification from the authorities, there were very probably talks with the head of state, with the Sanity Directorate, and, accordingly, what was said yesterday in the Ischgl report is quite true: In general, it worked well. I could not remember that the Minister has now said that there was nothing that would not have gone well. On the contrary! That's what you have to count on him. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Especially in crises such as this global pandemic, which none of us know and in which there is no estimation of how it will develop, there is a great need for sensitivity and communication. What's this about? – Therefore, to communicate things transparently. We all learned in this pandemic. There was no relevant data as always prepared before, but we simply had to adapt everything weekly, compare figures, facts, data and then take the appropriate steps; and that also happened. What is particularly good in this situation? – If a government presents itself as a team with the Federal Chancellor at the top and presents itself accordingly. This provides all security and peace in a truly unusual, challenging situation. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Now briefly to Tyrol – my Tyrolean colleagues will then comment in detail –: What did the head of state do? – He immediately paid attention to the fact that experts evaluate the events and that they draw conclusions from them – today in the country day, there were just these first conclusions –: How did crisis management work? What are the strengths? What are the weaknesses? What can I do? We all learn from it? – This is something that other federal states and the Federal Government can benefit from. That's called crisis management, and that worked. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The Corona crisis has taught us that we did not have enough knowledge, not enough resources to eliminate this crisis. However, it has also taught us that we can cope step by step with this crisis, both in terms of health policy and in terms of economic policy aspects. Health does not work without the economy and the economy without health, this must always remain present to us. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as by Mr Maurer and Mr Jakob Schwarz.]] Let me conclude with two remarks: The virus is not a party political event, but the virus is something that will accompany us right now through a hard time in autumn and winter and that we can only meet together. I read an interview by Prof. Hengstschläger last Sunday, and there was something that I liked very well, and I would like to conclude: He pleads for a co-maid company. I appeal to you here in plenary and to all those who live in Austria: Why don't we be with this fellow-member company in order to be able to cope well with the corona virus in the future and get through this crisis well! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13802	Mrs Klubobfrau Pamela Rendi-Wagner has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13823	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear High House! That worked very well in general. – I think it all knows where to hear that, yesterday in the Ö1 ‘Mitagsjournal’. These were the words of our Federal Chancellor on the subject of Ischgl. The report by the independent committee of experts on Ischgl draws a completely different picture and comes to a completely different conclusion. Let's look back – something has already been said –: ==References== In March, the Icelandic authorities inform with the European Early Warning System, the EEAS, the country of Tyrol and the Federal Government – it is the Federal Ministry of Health – about holidaymakers who have infected themselves with Corona in Ischgl. These are warnings, warnings of international nature that have apparently not been taken seriously by the authorities, both by the Tyrolean authorities and by the health authorities in the federal government. They were even played down in the next few days. There are days when more and more warnings are coming from more and more countries in Europe, the number of infected people in Europe is increasing. Nevertheless, nothing happens, for days nothing happens, for eight days nothing happens! The locals, the cable cars, the slopes, everything is still full of thousands, yes, tens of thousands of international holidaymakers. The Federal Government is not active and the country of Tyrol is not as active as it is expected. But everything worked very well in general, says Sebastian Kurz. Ladies and gentlemen! This failure to act, this reluctance, this indecision had, and we know this at the latest today following this report, dramatic consequences: From Ischgl the virus spread throughout Europe. Thousands, according to media reports, of more than 11 000 corona infected people came from Tyrol alone. There were partly severe corona diseases there, there were also deaths due to Ischgl. But everything worked very well in general, according to our Federal Chancellor. Not tuned, unprepared and – as we know – also doesn't have the responsibility to cancel Sebastian Kurz on 13. At one of his press conferences in March, a quarantine for the Paznaun Valley and Saint Anton. Yeah, we've already heard what this led to. It triggered exactly what happens when you're not tuned if you're not prepared: Panic and chaos are triggered. So when you learn one in crisis management, you have to avoid two things: panic and chaos. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] Panic and chaos have led exactly to the opposite of a virus impairment, they have led to it, and we have already heard that tens of thousands of holidaymakers have settled in buses from one hour to the next, densely pushed, also in trains, and have left the country. This very chaos has been a fire accelerator in the spread of virus in Europe. This was the result of an unprepared press conference outside the area of competence. But everything worked very well in general – according to Sebastian Kurz. By the way, he shares this assessment with only one in Austria, and that is the Tyrolean Health Council Tilg. He also spoke today, because in a legendary “ZIB 2” interview he also thought he had done everything right. So it can be assumed that you are at least very well coordinated on this issue. Is that happy? – No, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The facts known so far and the report of the independent Commission show a completely different picture, which is a picture of the multi-organ failure. They paint a picture of breaking all the rules of crisis management. This is the sukkus of the report of the independent Tyrolean expert commission. And I am grateful and glad that this Commission has finally come to light on the pressure and initiative of the SPÖ Tirol. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Dornauer! Dornauer!]] - That's right. This Commission, we know today and that was the task, has worked under considerable time pressure. It is all the more remarkable how comprehensive and good this report has become in the end. But one thing is clear: It couldn't be reworked. Many questions have been raised, which are still to be answered in the coming weeks and months. Today's urgent question I feel is an important further step along the path of necessary parliamentary enlightenment. This information, ladies and gentlemen, is necessary because it is important to learn from mistakes as quickly as possible and as quickly as possible, because Ischgl, and you have already said this, Federal Minister, must not repeat. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hörl: Pandemic concept? What's your pandemic concept?]] It is important to know – for the people, for us as a Parliament, but above all for you as the competent authority – why it has only been delayed for days. Why wasn't eight days decided? – Eight days: a long time, a valuable time. Why did the government just watch or look away? Why has responsibility been pushed around and postponed for eight days within the Federal Government and within the country of Tyrol? In a health crisis, every hour counts, every day counts – but that's not a corona specic, that's not surprising, that's nothing new for us, that should have been known already – and especially when it comes to infections, then it becomes a coronalawine by hesitation and waiting especially dangerous that it comes to an uncontrolled further spread and that a virus snowball becomes a coronalawine. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kirchbaumer]] In eight days it has become one that has captured Europe as a whole. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now let me conclude – and to a very important point that I and we as SPÖ have been calling for vehement since March, also here in the House: That's responsibility. This is central responsibility in the fight against a pandemic that has such a dimension, in the fight against a health crisis that is a century crisis. [[Abg. Hörl: Where was your concept? Where was your concept?]] This fight can only be successful with a clear responsibility, with central governance and central coordination. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Yes, because only this clarity is the basis, Mr Wöginger, for quick action and for quick decision. [[Abg. Wöger:... the SPÖ!]] It is precisely that, this rapid action, this determination, has failed in Ischgl. That was the mistake in Ischgl: the lack of decision, the lack of responsibility – and if you want to do so, Ischgl is the revelation of the responsibilitylessness of the Corona crisis management of our Republic. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Kirchbaumer]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, if this expert report allows one, then the opportunity to learn from these errors that have been identified. Please accept this responsibility, Minister of State, and that is what I mean by the remaining Federal Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13966	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13997	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I have to say, I have a light Déjà-vu when I stand here today. It seems to me a little as in the spring of this year – in April, when, after the press conference by Prof. Allerberger of the Ages, who explained the Ischglcluster, there was a corresponding debate here in the House on the processes and crisis management in Tyrol, and the Federal Government and the Federal Minister here presented themselves to the government bank and claimed that everything had worked very well, there was no mistake. Today we have a report from an independent committee of experts on the subject of Chairman Dr Ronald Rohrer, and this report shows incredible errors and failures. Because as opposition you have not listened to us in the past and have not believed if we have criticized points, I would like to quote something from the report: Point 1 on the lack of preparations in the Ministry of Health: "Although the officials of the Federal Ministry of Social Affairs, Health, Care and Consumer Protection, responsible for the indirect Federal administration, have observed the development of covid since December 2019, the legal basis of the health protection measures to be taken in central federal administration has not been prepared or only inadequately prepared. The pandemic plan in progress has not been published. The 1950 Epidemic Act was not “tested for its applicability” in tourism, nor was it taken in good time to adapt the law to the conditions of today’s mobility. Practical interpretations of the law have not been perceived or used. does not communicate with the country and the district authorities. As a result, the district authorities were not supported in their decision-making process and the necessary rapid intervention was hindered – the experts wrote, that is not a statement from me, but the experts found that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Kickl: If that had done another!]] This has been done by the Federal Ministry of Health in the preparation of this crisis. Then there was a completely inadequate communication in the immediate acute event when the crisis was finally escalated. The communication between the various authorities at the national level, at the national level and at the federal level was completely inadequate, but thank God was torn up at the federal level – and what the experts say, I would also like to read to you, because I assume that many of you have not studied the report so carefully in detail. “On the 13th of March, a telephone call between this Chancellor and the Federal Chancellor was made immediately before the press conference of the head of state. The Federal Chancellor said that in agreement with the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Health, the quarantines for the Paznauntal and St. Anton a. A. are to be “pronounced” – at the Arlberg. The Federal Chancellor stated that the Federal Government was responsible and also took over the communication. The head of state agreed, but pointed out that now the bars have to sit down quickly to work out the details because they do not yet exist. The head of state immediately after the telephone call agreed with the head of state in order to make the necessary preparations. The head of state no longer considered itself to be involved in the further action, because it was a decision of the federal government.” So, what did the covenant do? What did German chancellors make short? What did you do, Minister of State, Anschober? – You made a press conference at 2 p.m. immediately after this call, when all the preparatory work for quarantine and evacuation has not yet been carried out, in which you announced the immediate closure of the Paznauntal and of Saint Anton. I can also read that out of the report if you do not believe that: ‘The announcement of the quarantine on the Paznauntal and St. Anton a. A. by the Austrian Chancellor, without his immediate competence, surprising and without consideration, took place for the necessary substantial preparations. That would have caused the state government to do so just after the phone call. “The uncontrolled departure thereby caused has hindered meaningful epidemiological control.” Do you know what that means? – That the measures and actions of the Federal Government significantly hindered the control of the epidemic. "It was a communication error that the question of the quarantine announced by the Federal Chancellor was not resolved in time, with the involvement of the Landeck County Head Team and no one from the Federal Government or the Federal Government. the staff established there or by the representatives of the State of Tyrol pointed out to the Chancellor the serious consequences of the media announcement of a ‘sold’ isolation of the Paznauntale and of St. Anton [...] in practice, and that it is urgently necessary to make a reference to the continuing possibility of departure for foreign guests [...].’ So, and what was the result of this completely uncoordinated approach and this single entry of the Federal Government? – A total chaos in the Paznaun Valley, in Ischgl and in Saint Anton, panic not only among the locals, but also among the holidaymakers. Partly Hab and Gut were left behind and really quick to leave the valley – but this was not so easy because the cable car operation was stopped shortly after this press conference. There tourists were trapped on the mountains and could not go down into the valley at all. The ÖBB have stopped the connection, then curated rumors about exit forms that were not available – the total chaos is spoken. 15 kilometres of police traffic jams, which were initially pure traffic controls, because according to the expert team's report, the competent regulation from the Federal Ministry of Health reached the district's headquarters only at 7.20 a.m. – 5.5 hours after the press conference. [[Federal Minister Anschober: It cannot be true that this was five and a half hours after the conference!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Puff! From front to back!]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Anschober: Wrong again – wrong, everything wrong, what he says there!]] [[Abg. Kickl: After you! You're the head-pusser!]] [[Cheerfulness of the Federal Minister, Anschober.]] So everything was done right? Good crisis management from the Federal Government to Tyrol? – Whoever calls this a good crisis management and everything right, is actually in another reality. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government seems to have learned very little from this crisis and from these mistakes, because even though Mr. Anschober today has announced very extensive new measures in his remarks and has said what is not planned: Many things that are criticized in this expert report are still being practised today as they were seven months ago. The Federal Government is still practicing a policy of announcement without a legal basis, without the basis for all its announcements, ensuring complete uncertainty not only to the citizens but also to the executive authorities. I would just like to remind you of a few more examples: the chaos of the bans on entry, the obligation of mask – yes, no and where? . to the state of the Federal Minister's opening hours and Easter openings to the announced test strategy and screening examinations at schools, to the Coronamepel, which was identified in advance by an educational examination. Then there was a four-colored Austrian traffic light strategy, now there is a Europe-wide traffic light strategy. The real consequences do not have all of this, and the legal basis for it was partly created in retrospect and is not yet available at all. The last example was the whole debate about the announcement of a registration requirement in the gastronomy, which God could still be prevented thanks to us. All these things do not in any way provide the necessary security, but ensure chaos and uncertainty among citizens and authorities. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] The second crucial criticism: the legal basis, the preparations, the framework conditions that would have been created by the Ministry; above all, the Epidemic Law is and remains an incomplete construction site. Instead of re-establishing the Summer Epidemic Act, which would have been an urgent challenge, we have continued the dual track record of the COVID-19 Act. Worse improvements have been made to the Epidemic Act. What did you do? – The full claim for compensation for those affected has been removed from the Epidemie Act, and massive and disproportionate interference in fundamental and freedom rights has been provided, among other things, for the withdrawal by the Constitutional Court of Justice of a good part of the regulations based on the whole. Then, in the summer – I would almost dare to say, in a Husch-pusch-Action – with the shortest review time, three times the start was made to further improve the Epidemic Act on an Novelle, with not only the Federal Chancellor's own constitutional service, but also the numerous experts and departments having negative, yes destructive opinions. In the last expert hearing at the end, there was still extensive criticism of the final version. All of this, however, has not deterred the government from yet deciding on this law in its imperfection, rather than doing what the experts call for to take time and to re-establish the Epidemic Law, with the following contents: with a clear definition of the terms and the triggering circumstances for the measures of this Epidemic Act, with clear responsibilities and clear rules of competence across all levels, with a 100% claim for compensation for all those affected by state measures under the Epidemic Law, and in particular without disproportionate restrictions on fundamental and freedom rights. Mr. Federal Minister – Mr. Bundeskanzler Kurz, unfortunately, is not here today, but this appeal is also addressed to him – stop this unwarranted policy of announcement! End this catastrophic policy of fear and intimidation! End these restrictions on fundamental and freedom rights in the Second Republic! Do your work, create clarity and transparency and learn from your mistakes! [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and the representatives of the NEOS.]] We will continue our efforts to ensure that so-called crisis management after Ischgl up to today -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14122	I'm asking for the final sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14137	- is analysed by independent experts, as well as the events surrounding Ischgl. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14165	Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14186	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear sisters! Ischgl, that's seven months ago. Sometimes it feels more like it's been seven years. Fortunately, we have learned a lot since then, a lot about the virus, about cohesion, about the discipline of the Austrian population and, of course, also about professional crisis management. I would like to thank the independent committee of experts under the direction of Dr. Rohrer at this point. The Tyrolean Greens proposed in April that such a Commission be set up. They proposed this, and I think they had the right idea how to deal with such a situation as professionally and objectively as possible. The work done by the Commission is remarkable. Over 5 000 pages of documents have been screened, there have been numerous discussions and, of course, an evaluation of the same. Now we have a report which shows us very precisely, in which places it is imperative to intensify, restructure, change and act, so that it can never again come to such a truly highly problematic situation as in Ischgl in March. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] What does that mean? I find this exemplary and, above all, very useful, that Health Minister Anschober has already decided that there will be a joint working group with the Tyrolean state government, and in Tyrol the first steps have already been taken. The National Anonymity Directorate will need to be restructured or reformed, and the recommendations made in this report must now be implemented in peace and professionalism one after the other. As holly as the start was – we all remember the memorable appearance of the Council of State in the ORF, which left us rather amazed –: I am now confident that the awareness of error and openness of the necessary restructurings and changes have matured in Tyrol as well. [[Abg. Lightenness: There will be another word from colleague Hörl...!]] The last seven months have been extremely challenging, and it is to be feared that it will also be the next seven months. But today the situation is quite different. We know a lot more about the virus. We have seen what measures work and what little effect. We also know better which accompanying effects of measures are potentially problematic. We have significantly improved the Epidemic Law and thus the legal basis, also with a much better involvement of the House over the main committee. I think Rudi Anschhober has shown many political qualities in recent weeks and months: There is, on the one hand, the peace that he radiates, with which he is obviously able to give the Austrian citizens a lot of security; that is obviously so. On the other hand, it is his commitment to join Parliament. For example, the answer to the question has been very detailed today. [[Abg. Lightness: Well,...!]] Rudi Anschober is often present in the discussion of agenda items which are not at all his own. It is noted that it comes from Parliament and that Parliament is indeed taking it very seriously. There would also be his commitment to the many appointments with health speakers, with concerned citizens, with experts, with lawyers and lawyers, in which he listens to the criticism that exists and the concerns and is very concerned about it. I think it is a great political quality to do just that. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] One thing I find particularly important, because it is something unusual and quite new, as we have seen in this whole Ischglcausa: I think Rudi Anschober is bringing a new professional understanding of fault culture into politics: That you can say even once, yes, that didn't go well, that was a mistake, that's what we have to do differently, whatever. I think it is very good to do this and approach things in all peace, and I also think that we can all cut off and learn a slice here in the House. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the coming months and years – especially in the coming months, of course, the pandemic will not go away – let us work together to ensure that the pandemic cannot continue to spread. I hope that we will succeed in getting over the next seven months together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14271	Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14292	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Dear Seers! We all know this from various cinematographic films, from TV series or perhaps from our own personal experience, namely the situation in an operating room, shortly before the operation starts. There are many complex technical devices around, there is a surveillance computer that constantly emits any sounds, acoustic signals to make the basic body functions perceptible. The staff is highly concentrated, communicating with short, precise instructions. The anaesthesiologist gives a short pre-filled syringe of relaxation and speaks calmingly to the patient before he ascends the whole anaesthesia. And then every handle has to sit down. Long-term trained, mostly experienced staff brings in all their competence so that the operation leads to success. High house! You know what I want to do with this picture. It is the counter-image to what happened in Ischgl, it is the counter-image to crisis management in Ischgl, to which the operational report now, as it were, now exists. The role of the anesthetist I assign to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. Of him, we're used to trying to put us in trance in good words, so we don't know what it's all about. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It is one of the tasks of the Federal Ministry Act to inform the public about the work of the government. The Federal Chancellor also refers to this in connection with his disastrous Ischgl contribution. So the expert report shows us an anaesthesiologist who has all rather calmed down and descaled, one who has practically called the patient: It will be very dangerous – save yourself, who can! For me, this is very surprising in that it is actually a core competence – I want to say, the only one – of our Federal Chancellor that he can communicate. That he makes such a serious communicative mistake was really surprising, and this communication error caused immense damage. Due to the failure of the anesthetist, the operating room became practically a toll house. The control was completely lost, already carried out by previous speakers. In this situation, Chief Surgeon Anschober occurs, and he does nothing at first – since he has apparently prepared himself for the operation in no way. He obviously has no idea what to do. Although it fights with a scalpel, speaking with various regulations, which will later be abolished by the Constitutional Court as illegal, it seems that no meaningful contribution to the success of the operation can be made. And you won't be surprised how the operation went out. Let's leave the operating room, let's turn to the not much more bleak reality: To make mistakes is one thing, but then to deal with it in this way, to believe that to be able to do it with some well-to-do words, that is the other. After all, you confess that you made mistakes – unlike Mr. Federal Chancellor, who has still done everything right. But we must have the view of consequences and really align our actions and actions so that it comes back to trust. Trust is the most important thing we need now, between people and – and with that I am in Tyrol – also in tourism. Personal consequences are excluded in Tyrol. Although – with this I come back briefly to our picture from the operating room – it is a bit cleared around in the operating room, there is a castel being postponed and maybe the one or the other changed, but the seemingly overexploited staff trying to clean themselves down to various assistants, that remains in office and dignity, and thus the damage only grows properly. The European travel warnings – especially the German travel warning – remain true. I've just read, the German Federal Government has 8 years of age. A new quarantine obligation for returnees from foreign risk countries, which cannot be removed from a negative test, is scheduled on November 1. This is the death penalty for our tourism. [[Abg. Hörl: Do you like that, Margreiter?]] Winter tourism in Tyrol will be characterized by closed hotels, closed lifts. The economic damage to be expected in Tyrol and thus throughout Austria is inconceivable! And I have not heard anyone who would have really expressed his regret at the fact that the European foreign country is now also reporting on this Ischgl report. - That's devastating! All of this is exactly what is lost and is not rebuilt, which is very important in tourism, namely confidence. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This trust is most lastingly damaged, not by the pandemic, but especially because of the stupid reactions of politics to their indisputable misdeeds. In order to contribute to the reconstruction of confidence, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[17:05]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14468	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. Member Smolle has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14492	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen in front of the televisions! First of all, I would like to make a compliment in the direction of Tyrol. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] In fact, I find it really outstanding that an independent international committee of experts has been set up in such a timely manner to deal with this problematic situation, with a large job assignment, with absolute transparency, in order to develop this beginning of the pandemic accordingly. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In fact, this is the process and the chance that you can see from certain processes: What goes well, what needs to be improved, what do you learn for the future? . And if I say that this Commission was set up only two months later, then, as I said, it is timely, on the one hand, and on the other, it seems to me, as Mr Maurer said, as if seven years had passed, because we have learned enormously, and that is what I mean now from a medical and scientific point of view. Let's think back: The first report to the WHO that something is in the bush was made on 31 December. December 2019. A short time later, the virus was sequenced, but only at the end of January could you talk openly about it and it was communicated that the infection between humans is also possible, with which the Got a new dimension. And only when this started in Ischgl did the WHO know that there is a global health crisis here. That is to say, it was all very, very timely and the entire Federal Government, Chancellor, Federal Minister, has taken on responsibility, has taken on responsibility, and in this difficult situation, in a time of uncertainty has borne responsibility and made decisions, and it has carried this responsibility all the time throughout the Covid-19 crisis to this day. That deserves respect! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] It is no coincidence that Austria has so far been very, very well hit by this health crisis. This is not a coincidence that we have seven times fewer deaths, in relation to the number of people, than comparable other Western countries. This means that we have saved thousands of people in Austria from premature death. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] This is not a matter of course, and this shows that appropriate communication, courage to decide, adaptation to the new facts and scientific findings are a good way. We have not reached the end, because the pandemic is still there, and it is not tested as it is sometimes claimed, but we currently have about 600 patients in hospitals, well 100 of them in intensive care stations. They are not tested, they are ill. We are all seriously ill, and this points to the common responsibility that we need to act together and in solidarity to continue to get along well. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I'm optimistic that we can do this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] I'm convinced that we can do this, I'm very optimistic. The outcome of last Sunday's Vienna election is even more optimistic, because those political competitors who actively operated an anti-corona propaganda were not honoured by the electorate. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Please note my choice of words: I'm talking about political competitors and not political opponents, because we have an opponent: That's this damn virus with all its consequences. On the other hand, we must act in solidarity – we must hold together as a society, and that will succeed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14589	Mr Leichfried is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14610	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Col., you used the word ‘temporary’. I may begin by describing a timely response from the Federal Government: On 30.1.2020, WHO announced its health emergency. On 28.2., one month later, the first Coronataskforce was founded in Austria. - Yes, soon, eh clear, right? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, I would like to congratulate you, if the compliments already fly through the area, for the duration of the reply – you can discuss the content, but at the time of the reply, your colleagues could take an example. That was something you don't hear so often. But let us get to the point, and I would just like to ask you one question, Mr Federal Minister, that is the simple question: What happened? I would like to read you briefly from a report by the “Small Newspaper”: “People have gone away like crazy. In sports shops, they just threw the skis down” – that will have created pretty well, I suppose – “and have gone. A host whose inn terrace, because of the beautiful weather, “was full of guests, went to the cellar at about 2:00 p.m. to pick up a barrel of beer. When he came back, the terrace was empty. It was chaos. The police also did not know what to do.” These are the facts that people were confronted with – with all the beautiful explanations. And I can even answer the question to save you now that You do it yourself: I think you have had a single major problem in this situation and probably overall, and this problem is called Sebastian Kurz. That's the problem. You have in the course of reasonable pandemic management, Minister of State! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Worm: But he won't do that!]] I have listened to Mr Kaniak very interested, he has described with great pleasure what happened on that day, how it happened with the press conferences and what happened at all, and there is the impression that the German Chancellor did not deal with matters when he spoke with his press conference, that it was not about the best solution and that it was not about the people in the Paznauntal. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] No, he just wanted to hold the press conference first, that was the idea behind it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is also seen in the system: Who then took over the decisions, the decision-making power in the ministries and the Federal Chancellery? – They are no longer the highly qualified officials, they are no longer the diploma engineers, they are no longer the lawyers, the constitutional judges, but they are the public relations consultants, they are the McKinseys of this world – and that is the wrong development. What if it is? – Then we have unconstitutional laws, then we have illegal regulations and then we have punishments that are not lawful. No one knows what's going on, no one's relying on what's going on, and that's the problem you've got, Mr. Anschhober, and that's something you need to get under control. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I respect the rule of law – as most likely here. The principle of legality governs who is responsible for such a crisis – who is responsible for introducing the measures that are responsible for making the decisions, and that is not Sebastian Briefly with his countless advisers, who constantly wants to get ahead and again and again, but that is you, Mr Federal Minister, that is in this case you! [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz:... is already Federal Chancellor!]] It is about the principle of legality, and there are clear rules on who is responsible, Mrs Colleague. That's why I'm telling you: You should have been warned, because when all of this happened, it was clear that some people in the Federal Government do not care what happens to people in the Paznauntal, and that some seem to care that the effect of what happened – yes, and that is incredible, Mr. Colleague, you are right – is that the effect of what happened is that Austria was the first super-leader in Europe and tens of thousands of people across Europe were infected. [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: That's huge!]] [[Abg. Ottenschlager: Incredible!]] [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Ottenschlager: Your statement is incredible!]] This is the unbelievable! For this you can generate, I tell you quite clearly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Responsibility means – now for the future, to learn from it – that with competence, with the competent institutions and with great caution, one always weighs, in particular, what fundamental and freedom rights one can limit and which cannot be restricted, and – Mr Federal Minister, I would like to apologize for saying this so dramatically, but you have used this expression, you have meant that people must get a bite together; I would say so –: The Federal Government will soon have to get together a biterl. – Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14761	Mr Wurm has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14782	Mr President. Minister! High house! Fathers. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Loacker for his speech, in which he has shown us the Causa Ischgl in chronology and has also asked very meaningful and important questions, which in my opinion have only been answered to a small part, so that you really knew what exactly happened. But if you are a Tyrolean – and I am Tyrolean – as you can easily hear – the omnipotence of the ÖVP in Tyrol – the black felt – then you can't be surprised that this tuber report doesn't appear crazyly sensational, new. [[Call to the ÖVP: This is such an assumption!]] Although it is very extensive, there may be a bit more searching for farmers' sacrifices there, and that is for me also a bit of the Connex to the Federal Government, because we have not only been in Tirol Black-Green for a few years now, but also now also in the Black-Green Federation, and this felt now seems to be going through from Tyrol to Vienna. And that then little transparency and little real work can come out, I think, nobody can surprise anyone; only someone who is very naïve would have expected something else here. What has already been seen is a moral image of this government, which focuses primarily on press conferences and marketing and then remains very often on the track with real work. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Perhaps I should like to make a few points in the course of the discussion: this famous press conference of the 13th century. March, in which probably not even Minister Anschober – he will never admit – was informed that German chancellors were calling out the quarantine shortly, quite surprising for all those involved and, of course, surprising for the authorities in Tyrol. One has to say that the authorities, the small officials, the mayors on the ground, have already been put before the authorities without really helping them. I'm saying you have to look for the debt up there and not the local officials in Ischgl. But what I can say or have to say is: This whole Ischgldilemma will be banned, I say, especially the population in Tyrol, especially those who live by tourism. These are very, very many in Tyrol, and they will be responsible for this misbehavior, on the one hand, for the Tyrolean government – with, on the other hand, the head of state Platter, but on the other hand, he will get his fat, as one hears, even on a daily basis in many discussions in the Tyrolean Oberland, and that rightly so. I'm allowed to say: Federal Chancellor Kurz feels obviously responsible for everything, but unfortunately God is not responsible for anything, and he does not find it worth the effort to be here for an hour today. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Obernoster and Mr Pfurtscheller.]] At least this must be taken care of by Minister Anschober, that he is making his way back, but German Chancellors seem to be brief when it somehow becomes exciting to always be gone. [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: The request is not addressed to him!]] What I have missed is one, I say, round table with all the parties involved, where one would have apologized or would have tried to find a solution, offer compensation payments or otherwise, because, of course, the collapseal damage for Tyrol and for all tourism in Austria is a more massive one; and the pending complaints do not stop by themselves, as we all know. Mr. Anschober, what you have of course been a little silent now, these are the days of the 4th century. March 5th, March 5th. In March and following, the first reports from the authorities from Iceland to the Minister for Health and Health were intruding, and nothing happened, except that this was sent to Tyrol more or less and said: Yes, Tyrolean, do what you want, that is more or less to me! – There have been very, very serious failures. It must not be surprising that more than 10,000 people have left – we have about one quarter of them the respective exit dates. Whoever was on the road this weekend in Tyrol – and I was, also at the airport – he knows what was happening there. Those were actually film mature Hollywood scenes, I'd say. Mr Minister, the answer that you have remained guilty to this day is: You didn't say exactly if you did – because you did. On March, the exact names of those concerned, including hotels, have been informed accordingly by the countries concerned, from which these guests had come. I didn't hear anything about this. It is interesting – and this has already been pointed out a few times now, this matter should be dealt with – that in the minutes of the crisis staff this week the word Ischgl obviously does not occur even if one is allowed to trust these protocols – except for the protocols, what I do in Austria, although I am used to a lot, has not been accepted. Yes, Ischgl will, I think, continue to employ us for a while. As I said, the damage is done, and the responsibility for the damage lies primarily with me, I say it again quite clearly to the Minister of Health and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany who has set something in motion without going through the consequences – consequences with which the small hoteliers and gastronomy and suppliers in Tyrol will have to live in the last sequence. Today, we have heard of some also detailed stories on the subject of Covid or Corona. Perhaps, after I have been working on the subject for seven months now and I have not always received satisfactory answers from you in the Health Committee, I should also like to sum up briefly: Question: Is this coronavirus now more or less a killer virus – question mark –? Answer, quite clearly: No, no, no, Despite what you have been conveying to the population since March – and not just you, this nonsense happens in half the world: This killer virus simply cannot be proved from the numbers. Let's go. Let's go. That's all the numbers you can look at. [[Abg. Pfurtscheller:... the increase of stupid!]] It's not the killer virus you've been trying to sell us since the beginning of the year. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Pfurtscheller:... the increase of total stupid...!]] Perhaps on the verge, Mrs Schwarz: In your group too, the four Members have managed very well. [[Call to the ÖVP: Thank God!]] I have seen, also the colleague, who has been very hard on last week, was already good at voice and mood, and it seems to him to be going better again. I'm glad for the ÖVP, too. PCR tests: Are they reliable? What do they say? - Great question mark. That would be a topic for a separate discussion hour. Let's go to the dark number! How high is the dark number? [[Intercessions by Deputies Weratschnig and Lukas Hammer.]] Maybe I can make a small return to Ischgl. So much do we know from the media at least, because the official Ischgl report on health data is still guilty of this Parliament: 42 percent of Ischglers have antibodies. That means that for the half village history is probably done. It can also be pointed out: If you want to make a safe holiday this winter, then drive to Ischgl! There you have the greatest probability that you will not catch the virus because the half village is already immune. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Let's now come to herding unity, a very popular topic: The Swedish have indeed put this into play heretically. It is hardly anyone else today who likes to talk about Sweden. [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: 6,000 dead, my colleague.]] The question will be: When do we come to this herding entity? [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: 6,000 dead in ten million people!]] Also with regard to the issue of vaccination and natural immunity: It seems to me that the vaccines that are now rolling on us in billions – which is why some pharmaceutical companies are rubbing their hands – are valued higher than natural immunity, as they already have 42 percent of Ischgler. – Also a question mark; I am looking forward to further discussions. Then also to the health system in Austria – you can say it again, but it was already clear from the start at the end of March, at the beginning of April: Thanks to the many taxpayers of the last decades, the health system in Austria has been so well established that this covid story is easy to understand. We have not even reached close to any capacity limits, and I may mention it again – I said it last time –: With what you painted on the wall at the time – and I can remember your words very well here in the house – you've scared everyone. They said the breathing equipment will go out, according to the motto: Now we have to buy 10,000 breathing equipment somewhere, otherwise everything will collapse. No one is talking about this now because it has been found that intubating is the worst of all ideas and that we have never had a problem in this direction either. And as far as measures are concerned: Big question mark. All you have done to take action was to deal with collateral damage in the economy, in the social, but also in the health field, collated damage, which would deal with some of our meetings during the evening. Finally, I would like to say a sentence that is also important to me in view of the phases of the lockdown – because there is always a second lockdown in the room here. I remember very well: If a 97-year-old died in or with Covid, that was worth a headline in the press. But if children were neglected in the youth protection area at the time, because the whole system has collapsed because no one has looked at what happens in problem families, then this was not even worth a footnote in Austria. In my opinion, these are the wrong priorities that have been set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14938	Mr Ottenschlager referred to an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14963	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) On behalf of Mr Worm: His remarks would be worth writing here a whole sluggish of actual corrections, but that would probably be the result of this sitting. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] However, my actual correction refers to a statement by Mr Leichtfried. He said in his speech that the Federal Chancellor, the Federal Government, the Minister of Health, was not about the people in their decisions. I'm actually correcting: In every decision by the Federal Government with the Federal Chancellor and the Minister of Health – and by the way also in the decisions we have made here in the House – it has always been primarily about people and the protection of health.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15007	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15029	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! Mr. Worm, I know that Northern Italy has never happened, that's all submerged and lied to, the million dead, that's all from a parallel dimension. [[Abg. Worm: I didn't say that!]] Well, you've been pretending to have no problem at all, as if we didn't have 38 million infected worldwide, over a million dead. So you're pretending it didn't exist. You're also pretending we don't have just 100 people in the intensive care station. Come on. Get them down from the gas again, let's get back to the facts! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] The Minister has presented the facts – and I would like to thank you for that. He has been asked 45 questions, some of which he has already answered nine times. In preparation for today's meeting, I have once considered: There have been a total of nine parliamentary questions, both from SPÖ and from NEOS, all of which, in my opinion, have been answered in full, and many, many questions from these nine questions are also contained in today's urgent question. [[Abg. Belakovich: Then it was no problem anyway!]] So thank you for the time and – how to say? – also for the patience to present the whole thing here for a tenth time an hour today. The colleagues of the NEOS now act on the social media team as if it had been filibustered here. – Excuse me, but I expect a minister to answer this question when he has 45 questions plus interviews, and he has done so. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] In the same way, he has already answered all other requests in a decent manner. He didn't stand up to it either today or before and said everything was great, everything was fine, they made everything perfect and nobody made a mistake. On the contrary! This minister was the first minister to remember, at least I can remember, who stood here in the House and not only said: Yes, mistakes have happened here. Here we need to get better. There were mistakes in my house that I have to answer. – This has not been done by a blue minister before, I have not experienced this either by red ministers in the past and, sorry, dear coalition partner, unfortunately I have not experienced it too many times with you. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] All right. It is also part of this quality awareness and of this flaw-consciousness, of this fault culture, that one assumes that one looks at it and that one reacts accordingly to it. One example of this is the re-evaluation of the children in the pandemic fight. ==References== September – if I have it right in mind now – new requirements will be developed together with the Society for Child Medicine and Youth Medicine. It is about the fact that children are no longer automatically considered as contact persons of category 1 or are no longer automatically tested, especially when they are under ten years of age. Another example of this culture of error is what we have decided here on 23.9., namely a revision of the COVID-19 Act and a revision of the Epidemic Act, which was aimed at creating a real legal basis, a balance between personal freedom on the one hand and the necessary measures for a corresponding pandemic control on the other. That is what we did here on 23 September, with a large majority. Before that, there was a corresponding parliamentary procedure, two assessment procedures, an expert committee was used – that is, sorry, this is also a form of culture of error, a form of approach, a form of taking up what is just present in new insights, in new viewpoints, and to respond accordingly. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen who have come here today and have said that there is no legal basis for any measure, it should be said: Sorry, but on 23.9. We have created these very legal foundations by a large majority. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] One last remark, because it has been called here today, the pink unicorn or – I believe – the pink elephant, the lockdown, is constantly being put into play: So the minister has been running through the area for weeks and says in every microphone that is kept under his nose: We are miles away from a lockdown! Why? – He reasons this by saying: Okay, we have rising case numbers, infection numbers, but the capacities in the health care system are available accordingly, we are really still on a good path, we see that we are bringing down the case numbers! The only ones who are here and also outside insecure the population are you, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, and the colleagues of the NEOS, who are constantly standing down and talking about a lockdown all the time, and are all the time spreading any corresponding rumors. That's how it looks! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: And what did Minister Schramböck say?]] This is political change of the cheapest kind that is being changed here – sorry, but not so! In my view, constructive, cooperative opposition work looks completely different. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15122	Mr Gahr is speaking on behalf of the European Democratic Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15143	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) For seven months now, this Covid 19 virus has been calling for us: He has changed our lives, changed our living together, he demands our systems – health system, social system, economic system – and by example Ischgl, which has been examined, we see how quickly you stand in the national and international showcases. The country of Tyrol has set up a committee of experts very soon in spring for reasons of transparency and perceptibility, and President Rohrer has also clearly stated that all documents have been prepared and provided. Now there is a 287-page report, which represents an order for the future. There has never been a similar situation, there were no crisis plans, there were few experiences, there was no manual, and it is probably in retrospect such that you can always fail and some are smarter, as today's speeches show. There are three clear messages. The report clearly showed that there was no pressure from the economy and that courageous and correct decisions were made by the Tyrolean authorities, such as the early end of the winter season. There is a need for improvement in communication. We should learn from this and draw conclusions. Head of State Günther Platter, who has already been mentioned several times today, has always tried as crisis manager to get us up for the future. There will be a restructuring of crisis management in Tyrol – used with today's day. So what's being made new? – There are four areas: Crisis management is being put on new feet. A crisis and disaster management centre will be set up to deal with all content and issues. There will be renewals of the crisis and disaster plans. And an expert group with independent experts has been set up. Ladies and gentlemen! Tirol takes the suggestions seriously, we want to provide security for the people, for the economy, for the future. It is about creating interfaces, building up lack of skills and shaping communication in the future. As mentioned today: Mutual debt allocations do not bring us further, as the Federal Minister stressed. We need a match between the district headquarters, the country, the federal government and the municipalities. We must support people in dealing with the crisis and not make them bad. It can only go together, we shouldn't point our fingers at each other. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now it's quite clear – and that's crucial; the crisis is not over, the next weeks and months will continue to ask us; just now, how quickly the numbers can go up again – and that's important to all of us, and all of us are tasked to make good progress. Everyone can make their contribution. I strongly ask that we do not bagatelle the matter and not make any small speeches, but we should not dramatize it either. I believe it is common to all of us, to all of us, to politics, to society, to all citizens, to all of us, to stand up for the future in such a way that we can deal with crises, to create them together, and to find ways and opportunities for the future to make difficult situations too. The budget presented today also reflects the clear mandate that we must focus on the economy and work in our country, and I therefore believe that we can cope with this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15186	Mr Loacker is speaking on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15210	Mr President. Mr Schalmeiner explained that it would only speak of the opposition of a second lockdown. – I’m actually correcting: In the discussion of the Vienna top candidates on 6. On October 8th Birgit Hebein did not exclude a second lockdown, and on October 8th. In October it was read in the “Small Newspaper” that ÖVP Minister Schramböck does not exclude a second lockdown.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15235	Mrs Yildirim is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15256	Mr President. High house! Dear Seers! Mr. Minister! Yeah, it's true, the virus doesn't come from. Ischgl. It is a novel virus, and we have heard a lot of opinions today – especially medical opinions and assessments – but what is not new in this country is a well-functioning rule of law, and that is what it is all about! It is about numbers, data and statistics, and not just about them, Mr. Minister, with confidence. It's about people. It is about human health and many fates. The central statement of the Commission of Inquiry is clear: Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurzhat has caused chaos and panic with this press conference on Friday, 13th. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff.]] Now I have expected and I have assumed – this picture is somehow a picture – that Mr. Chancellor Sebastian Kurcin was responsible for the division of roles to put us in fear and terror, and you, Mr. Health Minister, for calming us down. That's nice and good, but I would have expected him to be responsible here today and not leave you alone. They were not allowed to appear alone at these countless press conferences, I can remember that very well! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We must not reduce this discussion to the virus, ladies and gentlemen. This discussion is about the question: How did political leaders deal with the crisis in an exceptional situation?, and the finding of this Commission of Inquiry – which I would like to thank very much at this point – is the statement: Crisis management didn't work! It confirms the obvious: The crisis communication was diletantic, contradictory, primarily characterized by the effect-hascheric PR of Sebastian Kurz. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What is particularly disturbing to me is that more and more it turns out that now the little ones in the structure, the executive officials, come to the handcushion. That really bothers me, because what's on this 13. March 2020? – The authorities have been put under massive pressure of time, they have had to react in some way within a few hours because the chancellor has announced that the Paznauntal is being quarantized. The choice of words was extremely misunderstanding, and this led to this panic-like, rapid departure of the resort. Now it's also about asking: How can we regain trust? – We have shown ourselves very constructively as an opposition and I would have liked – some of the previous speakers of the government parties today have called for common ground – that many of our constructive proposals are received. What you are discussing now, Mr Health Minister, this central point, the central data collection, has already proposed to and for ourselves our President-in-Office of the Federal Party Pamela Rendi-Wagner at the beginning! Now you think about it – but after all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One thing is important: On the morning, the Federal Minister for Finance said that Austria lives from export and tourism. Only, how do we get back to the international image, trust? - Certainly not when we say we did everything right. That's why my appeal is: We then show a good culture of error when we say: We have made mistakes, we call them, we stand by them and we do compensation for damages. – But I still miss that and I expect that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15349	Mrs Prammer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15371	Mr President. Minister of Health! High house! Values Advisors! In health, as we know, legislation and enforcement are federal matters. This happens in central federal administration and works in such a way that the prime responsibility of the ministers is borne and execution by the national leaders and the authorities which are subordinated to them is carried out. This is a system that exists in Austria in the whole, quite a lot of materials and that has proved itself well. The report has shown us that, of course, in such a special case it is not always easy to carry out all the information from the top down. The report of the Expert Committee has shown that, fortunately, it has shown. He has shown that there were better circumstances, and that is a good thing. It has also been shown that we need, of course, a revision of the epidemic law – we know that since February/March. But: We have a pandemic now! We're in the middle of a pandemic, one we haven't had for 100 years. Of course, we have recognized the need for this innovation, but now is not the time for us to make these changes. Imagine, you're on your bike and you know you've got a patch. Then it is necessary to stop and switch the hose. You can't just keep going and hope that it's going anyway and that it won't be completely broken anyway, you have to stop and change the tires. We need time for this, but we don't have this time now. So what did we do? - We went down and left. In other words, we did not innovate the Epidemic Act, but we made a COVID-19 Act, by agreement and by common accord, because we knew that it was not possible to create a great throw now, which is taking place in all cases, to clean and repair the law in such a way that in all cases it is a good means of dealing with such crises. We needed an aid, and that was the right measure at that time. The evaluation is coming to an end, and we haven't reached it for a long time. We're in the middle of the pandemic, we're in the middle of the crisis. Ischgl could now be evaluated because there was a completed situation there. The expert committee – and it is called a real expert commission, although there is also a virologist and a touristist in it, but that's Tyrol – has found that there have been shortcomings there, and one can react to it. This can be taken away in the current processes and in what we now have to do, but we are not yet at the end of the overall situation. Nor can we compare what measures would have been better or worse internationally, because we do not yet know how the measures taken in other countries will have been affected in the end. That's all we need! We need this information, we need these insights, these experiences to create something really good. We can change the law, which, of course, as we all know, has changed, only if we have all the necessary information. We now have to deal with this crisis. We have to do this with the resources available to us now, and for this we have, by the way, all chosen the possibility to adopt the COVID-19 Act. The uncertainty did not arise. Nor does uncertainty arise because the population is constantly informed of all new facts and of all changes. The uncertainty arises from the fact that alternative facts are constantly being presented here in this House too. That's what causes the uncertainty! The uncertainty does not arise either by answering requests. You have asked an extensive question with a total of 155 detailed questions, and while this question was answered, while the Minister of Health spoke and answered each one of your questions in detail, well researched and with facts, you have already weathered: All of this takes too long and so you can silence the annoying opposition! [[Abg. Meil-Risinger: You did not answer the crucial questions!]] [[Further calls to the NEOS.]] So what do you want? Do you want information or do you just want to talk to the public about questions? [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Yes, exactly!]] A change of the epidemic law is necessary and it makes sense. We will also make them if all the facts are available to us, and I hope we can all do so together.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15435	Mr Margreiter, I would like to call for an order for the expression ‘threat reactions’. I have had the Stenographical Protocol brought to me to see if it has really been said in this line of words. Members of the European Parliament have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15474	Mr President. High house! Mr. Minister! The report of the Committee of Experts, 300 pages strong, is available. I am right, Mrs Klubobfrau Maurer, that this report is actually moving towards awareness of mistakes and also shows the urge to make things better. I believe that this is also the requirement for tourism to work at all. We must also give the guests safety in the future, because safety and well-being of the guests are related. That is why it has been very important that we have called up an independent Commission – by the way, starting from the country of Tyrol – which is now presenting this report. I find it strange that you start talking about the black felt now – dear Peter Worm, your statement is very disappointing to me – because you should read the report first. If you have heard Mr Rohrer, you have to say that was a very complex subject. That's why it took so long. After all, seven months later – exactly seven months after the day the press conference took place, 13th. May – this report is available. This 13. May I won't forget my life anymore. [[Call the SPÖ:13. March!]] That was really a black Friday for us, for Tyrol, and of course for the whole country. [[Call the SPÖ:March!]] Friday, the 13th, was the day we announced in Tyrol that Tyrol ended the winter season. If it's said today, until then nothing happened, it's just wrong. The whole week was a single act: from locking up the discos on Saturday, re-blocking the discos in Ischgl on Tuesday to locking up the Ischgl ski area on 14 days on Wednesday and locking up the whole Tirol on Thursday. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] So it was done on a continuous basis. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] Of course, in retrospect, there were mistakes and one could have done something better, is no question. This report includes criticism, potential for improvement, as well as confirmation and correction. He notes, for example – a good realization – that the virus did not come from Ischgl – this should also be a few behind the ears here in this house – has been bred and born, but, as you now know, has come from Singapore and came to Ischgl via a French ski resort. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff]] [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] The economy, the cable cars, which have always been put there as greedy, have not exerted any pressure, neither on the county headquarters nor on politics, on the contrary, it has been carried out what has been ordered. [[Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff: But the Sebastian Kurz, isn't it?]] I think that was one of the most courageous decisions made by Mr. Platter, a country, a winter sports country that was in full bloom, where the slopes were full, where everything was full and everything was super good, although only in two ski resorts Corona Falls were known. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] At the time – you can shout as much as you want – there were positive cases known in Ischgl, and it was one case or at the end two or three cases known in Sankt Anton. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl]] All the other ski resorts were completely untouched by the situation at the time, and yet one has made this decision. Yes, there is criticism of the outdated legal situation that has dominated, and of the departure of the guests. I am very excited about how you want to make evacuation plans for our country where there are valleys with 20 000, 30 000, 40 000 people. They'll evacuate you in two days? You'll be able to do better, but you'll need an incredible logistics to get it at all. If you think of the Zillertal alone: There are 120 000 people in high season and there are two roads. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Innsbruck is the same size, you can evacuate because of the many streets. This is, I believe, not quite as possible with us in the country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff.]] Yes, the country of Tyrol has responded. Yesterday, there was already a new set-up of crisis and disaster management – that has already been said – to this end, experts have been brought, Bruno Hersche, a disaster expert who was also in the Commission, and the former military commander Othmar Commenda. For Tyrol, I would like to say: As far as natural disasters are concerned, we are specialists in our mountain country. Nothing can happen to us. If there are natural disasters, if there are walls, if there are avalanches, if you think of Galtür 1999 or the flood events in the Paznaun: All of this has been done perfectly because we have mayors in every single municipality, who call for deployments immediately, and people know how to help themselves very much. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] Just against a pandemic, Mrs. Klubobfrau - - – – Please? – Only for a pandemic, Mrs. Klubobfrau, which we haven't had for 100 years, you can't have any plans. [[New call of the abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: At the cash register is the chaos!]] I'll be excited when they come. [[New call of the abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] If you are now criticising the Minister of Health for not having these pandemic plans – I have already heard that – then I have to say that, since he was in office for only three months, you should rather ask the question whether or not the Federal Minister Hartinger-Klein did not do anything right or even the clubwoman of the SPÖ, who was also the Federal Minister of Health. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] You might have had to work there a little faster earlier and carry things on. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I'll tell you one more thing: Finally stop, please stop denouncing Ischgl all the time and kicking into Ischgl's dirt! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] Ischgl is always presented as the party queens of the Alps: Ischgl is a village with 1,500 hard-working inhabitants, with a totally super village life. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff.]] Ischgl has 40 active clubs. The bubble music chapel Ischgl has over 100 members, although people all work in tourism. [[intermediate calls at SPÖ and NEOS.]] There are 60 active small farmers, growers. [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] For all of this, there is support from Silvretta AG. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] [[intermediate calls at SPÖ and NEOS.]] The cable car, the most powerful cable car in the country, belongs to the Ischgler, belongs to the valley, belongs to the locals, and they also see themselves responsible for the common good in this region. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Transport, sports activities: Everything is financed by the cable car. [[Phone call at the NEOS.]] Ischgl currently has a swimming pool of 60 million euros. You may have that twice in Vienna, but in Ischgl this is built because you can use the profits from tourism for it. Ischgl as a tourist lighthouse also has restaurants with a total of 29 hoods, 82 hotels with four and five stars. This is tourism in the highest quality form, which is an absolute lighthouse in Austria, which is also internationally competitive. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] The report is available. It is working to make this better, and I believe that tourism is the most interested in it. But let us now think of the coming winter season! The haem and the joy that I see in part in the faces Mr Leichtfried, this is an example I do not want to give myself. [[Intervocations at SPÖ and NEOS]] Do you really know that we're going to a winter season, where we're not sure if we can open it, that thousands of businesses, thousands of families, thousands of life existences are at stake? [[Recent calls at SPÖ and NEOS]] What we did not need was what just came out an hour ago, namely the next great escalation in the German Federal Republic: five days of compulsory quarantine. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Tell me which German guest should come if he has to stay at home in quarantine for five days! [[intermediate calls at SPÖ and NEOS.]] You and your colleague, Oberhofer, in Tyrol, are doing a good job, and you are making us and our country ridiculous. [[towards NEOS]] [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: You can't make the opposition responsible for what you've pumped!]] Shame yourself and the others too! Mr Margreiter, most of all you are!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15758	Mr Neßler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Then comes an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15823	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! We know that we cannot make any actual correction of an actual correction, but, Mr Loacker, I would like to put it right here: They claim that Mr Hebein said she could imagine a second lockdown. It is true, however, that she was asked if she could imagine it, and through Taferl she said yes, with the addition that she can imagine it, but it is all the more important that we prevent it with reasonable measures and all effort. [[Intervocation and cheerfulness at FPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] If you like to quote, please. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Wurm, I'll be right back to you. [[Abg. Loacker: She said yes!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] What I would like to mention positively – we certainly see quite differently – is the Ischgl report, because the report clears up the whole thing openly, mercilessly and completely transparently and has also been presented completely transparently. [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] There has been very good work done by the Committee of Experts. Yes, Mr Worm, you see this differently, but I would also like to say something in your direction. I am glad that now, during the biggest pandemic, you are no longer part of the government, because now when I look at social media and so on, what is being spread in conspiracy theories by FPÖ nearby or by FPÖ officials, yes, halleluja! [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Back to the discovery instead of covering: The report is also important for error management, because admitting mistakes is not easy – our club woman has mentioned it. No one in here is easy to admit mistakes. The management of errors in politics is very poor, so it is very important that pioneer work is done and that we simply say: Yeah, it didn't go so well, yes, you could have done better!, and even apologize. This is very, very important for our political culture, and I would also like to thank our Minister for that. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But if we talk about Ischgl, we will not be able to talk about the extents of winter tourism in a short or long time. Many will be able to remember the ORF documentation to Ischgl – if they have seen it – and were probably quite amazed, because if it is seriously said that penguins are brought to Ischgl for tourists, I wonder if this is not clearly going in the wrong direction at the latest. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Light peace.]] Mr Hörl, you can't deny the actual situation right now and say there's no ballerman in Ischgl with the winter tourism industry or anything else. Of course, there is that, we all know, and it is important that we take a closer look at winter tourism. And yes, of course, winter tourism does not look pink due to the covid period and due to the travel warnings. But now I want to go back a step and look at winter tourism as it was before. We know, at the latest since the Covid crisis, that the industry is highly indebted despite booming times. I wonder where this is going to lead to when I want to grow, coupled with the mutual competitive pressure and dogma, to have to grow ever-increasing. We have to get away from this competition in the Alps. Tourism has to change fundamentally whether we want to do so or not. The population, especially in Vorarlberg, Tyrol and Salzburg, has long contributed to the growth of tourism, but in some cases the population suffers. If you look at this: uniform chalet villages, traffic shafts, overpriced housing prices, ballerman in the Alps far away from the original idea of holidaying in the Alps. In part, this has also developed into the anti-pollution of the population, and we must take it seriously. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is ultimately a downward spiral, a race against the time, of which only a few benefit, but many suffer. We don't need a Disneyland in the Alps with reproductions – and there are actually – of Pamela Anderson's breasts, on which you can ski – there were ideas – or penguins in Ischgl or any mountain peaks to build neither a slopes with artificial snow. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm]] We don't need mass clearances anymore! Our winter tourism will only work in the long term if nature does not suffer, the population benefits from it, and value creation is achieved. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Light peace.]] Error management also needs to be done in tourism policy and in winter tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15947	Mrs Selma Yildirim spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15972	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! In his speech, Mr. Hörl said that the cable car – I assume that it meant the Silvretta cable car – belongs to the municipality of Ischgl. [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: No, the citizens! He meant, the citizens!]] This appeared to be 100 percent owned by the municipality of Ischgl. In fact, it belongs to 70 percent of the municipality of Ischgl. This is what has made us a little out of the way in the world, namely the idea that economic interests have been balanced with health interests. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] That is, I believe, a central question, and that is why we have lost confidence.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16012	Next speaker: Mr Markus Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16034	Madam President. Minister! Mrs. Minister! High house! After seven months one often has no longer the right assessment, when we knew what was the state of knowledge. Maybe once my personal experiences: I'm 20 years old. February we flew from Vienna to Rome, and when we landed at the airport in Rome, thermoscans were already prescribed there and we were registered at the airport. On the same weekend on Sunday, a train from Rome drove over the Brenner, in which two suspects were committed, and the Minister of the Interior left the train still in front of the border. Fortunately, the suspicions have proved unfounded, people have been registered, people have made contact tracking. The problem with this government is that a lot of show is being made, because when I landed in Vienna at the airport the same evening, nothing was at all. That is, the plane from Rome could land unhindered, no persons were controlled, no fever was measured, nothing at all. I think the subject is that – especially in the larger parties – one has mechanisms that are well trained when it comes to the enemy from outside; but when it comes to looking at it in one's own country, it's different. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I still have the words of Mr. Landesführer Platter in the ear when he put it in the 2013 election campaign: We want “no Italian conditions. ” ==References== There were two corona cases in Venice on February 2, and due to these two corona cases the entire carnival in Venice was cancelled. Putting this knowledge back to now, what does that mean for Ischgl? What would have been the consequences of this state of knowledge and the consequence of Italy's anti-corona action? When I looked through the files, I had a picture of Mister Bean in front of me – I know the disciples probably know him less, but the elders still know him very well –: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kirchbaumer]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] Mr. Bean tried in a very simple way to repaint his room. He placed a color box in the middle of the room, then threw in a Swiss cracker with lit ignition cord and closed the door. – So similar was the situation in Ischgl. Everyone knew: That's dangerous. Everyone had to know, with the knowledge of the time, that what measures are being taken in Ischgl must be done with caution. At Mister Bean, it can be felt as funny that this one of course is tearing up the door at the very moment when the color can explodes. With him it was a coat that he forgot in the room. But what was the reason why the door was opened uncontrolled in Ischgl? – The reason was the great ego of our Federal Chancellor. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Please!]] He has not prevented the district captain, just as it would have been prescribed, and what I believe would have been appropriate in this situation would have caused this closure, but he had to announce it in a medial manner. We've already discussed the fact that this didn't happen in order, it broke out chaos. We can now of course ask why we criticize the Chancellor, if the Minister is sitting here, and I believe that this criticism, which is addressed to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, can also be addressed to the Minister. Because if you take this image of the closed door, then you're standing by it, you knew, it's dangerous, this door should not be opened, but you allowed it. [[towards Federal Minister Anschober]] You've allowed this door to rise and the corona virus to be sent uncontrolled to Europe. That's what happened back then. And yes, it has generally not been all right, because if a mayor does not impose a regulation for two days, it is not a cavalier offence. No, it has not been responded to this crisis in time, one has waited; this too is reality. Maybe at the end of the day. I don’t know who heard the “Morgenjournal” in the morning. There a affected person talked about how she was after the death of her husband. And yes, from the point of view of consumer protection, there are still demands. There will be proceedings, there will be complaints, there will be judgments. Dear Rudi, do you know what this woman really loved? – The damage cannot be remedied with any money in the world, but one could apologize to the people for the damage they have done by not doing the right thing. I know that you are only in second place responsible for apologising for this situation by the Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16105	Next speaker: Mr Wolfgang Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16130	Madam President. Minister! Minister! I would like to say a general word in the direction of the Greens: You were once again a proud opposition party, and your predecessors never questioned parliamentary instruments at any time. If, as you do today, you accuse the opposition that it addresses one or more of the same questions to a minister here, then you are also addressing yourself with regard to parliamentarianism, for every Member is free to use the right of interconnection here in relation to each minister, and he also has the right to receive appropriate answers to his requests. [[Calls for Greens]] [[Abg. Maurer: Correct! That's why...!]] And if I ask the same question ten times because the answer doesn't seem right to me, I can do that. I do not need to be blamed by you, nor do my colleagues from NEOS. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You can expect crispy, short answers and not a joke!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16174	Mr Zanger, I would like to ask you to be moderate in your expression, especially as regards the word'snack'. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16202	I'll do it. However, I have actually come out again because Mrs Prammer of the Greens has said that the opposition causes uncertainty with alternative information. So that's pretty slowly too much for me. Alternative information – so you can't say this and that. All that can be said about Corona is just what the EIA and the Greens say. Everything else is wrong and forbidden, everything else is bordered on sectariany. [[Calls for Greens]] A public solid discussion is not allowed. There you can look at me, Mrs Schwarz. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] [[New calls to the Greens.]] Every scientist, every doctor who has a different opinion on the masculine requirement, to the test methods, gets a muzzle imposed on you, in the form of the symbol of the mask, and must say nothing more. [[Abg. Soundmeiner: Can speak everywhere in Austria!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Luke Hammer]] [[Further calls for Greens]] [[Abg. Worm: He's right!]] All you have to say on this issue is from you. It also regulates communication at least in the close-to-governmental Internet forums in such a way that first the information of the government comes and then possible other opinions. You won't let anything happen. This is opinional dictatorship, which is ÖVP-led corona dictatorship.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16283	Mr Zanger, I would like to give you a call for an order for the expression ‘consultation dictatorship’.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16327	Thank you, Madam President, I take note of this. But I also have a wish that I would like you to deal openly with this issue. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich, Mr Martin Graf and Mr Steger.]] You startle fear by hanging around the human muzzles in the form of masks. I think we can't kill or push this virus in the long run, or anything else. That means we have to learn to deal with it sometime, and we need courage to do that! We must encourage people and people to do this. I'd like to: Courage instead of fear – and learning to live with the virus, courageous, free, self-determined, self-responsible to deal with it, and also allow opinions of others. [[Abg. Maurer: I thought...!]] In this sense, I also appeal to your reason.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16370	I now have a speech on Mrs Belakovich's business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16397	Madam President, you have now given the honourable Member a call for an order for the word 'public dictatorship'. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince.]] Madam President, I would ask you to reconsider this, because if you do not allow the word 'consistency' here, that is the first step to a censorship for me. I would therefore ask you to allow this to happen, because it is precisely this behavior that comes from the government parties that, for differing opinions, one is already in here as a life-threatening person, as someone who is also at risk of the population. That is what we experienced during the last session, and I therefore believe that we need to take a closer look at whether this really deserves a call for order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16430	If there is no further word for business treatment now: Madam President, you are right; the word ‘public dictatorship’ alone does not give rise to a call for order; it is always in the context. By the way, this applies to all calls for orders. If the wording was one – and I would like to look at it again in the Minutes – as I have heard it here, namely, the accusation to Members, they operated “public dictatorship”, then that in this context requires a call for order and is to be assessed. [[Call the FPÖ: Is it right!]] I can only assure you that I am one of those – like everyone else who is chairing this House – who are very careful to ensure that the right of free speech in this House is respected. [[I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, as well as on behalf of the Group of the European ……]] No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote. I ask the political groups, the clubmen, whether we can go into the voting process immediately. - Yeah, good. Then we'll do the same. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff, colleagues on the extension of the Ischgl Commission's mandate of inquiry. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority, rejected. [[Call the FPÖ: Cover everything!]] [[18:17:44]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16487	I shall resume the negotiations on points 8 to 11 of the agenda. Mr Peter Wurm came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16514	Madam President. Valuable Minister! Minister! High house! Fathers. An exciting discussion on the subject of Ischgl, Covid and Corona, but perhaps a question that can still be asked here in plenary – and I hope that the Greens or the ÖVP do not now immediately draw up a strange discussion ban culture –: If all these measures that you have adopted in recent weeks – masking requirements everywhere, blocking hours and so on – are so successful and so effective, then I already wonder why the numbers have been rising for so long every day. Is there a causal link or are the measures simply ineffective? But I can already imagine what you are probably saying as an excuse: If you had not put in place these measures, the figures would have increased even more. This is, of course, an unverifiable statement, but obviously the measures have not benefited much. But where it has “utilised” – and that is why the woman is there; Ms. Aschbacher is responsible for family, but, quite, very important, also for work –: There is an increase in unemployment from last week to this week by 4,500. 4 500 people have also become unemployed, there are families behind it, and if this continues at this rate, you can calculate relatively quickly where this leads us. Again, all this is causally related to the actions of this Federal Government since March and to the basic spirit you are spreading in this country – that is fear and panic. But what we would need for the labour market would be confidence and planning. I may also mention the following, because there should obviously be differences with the last Committee; I may be able to help spectators, there are also protocols that can be read: We have spoken to Mr Kopf and Mr Buchinger of the AMS, and they have made very terrifying statements about the labour market. So I don't know where these dream interpretations come from. It was terrifying to say: The reports to the early warning system that exists in the AMS, where there are almost larger cancellations in time, rose by 130 percent last week – 130 percent increase in the early warning system of the AMS. All the indices we have, therefore, unfortunately paint a very dramatic picture, and we have been announcing this social crisis for a long time – or, unfortunately, we must announce it to God. We also point out to the Ministers that effective action should at last be taken, but that unfortunately puffs and does not really produce results. Another story to be clarified at some point is the following: Today we have heard Mr Blümel's budget speech, which he has left to us, but it is: How's it going after that? Who will pay this approximately 100 billion euros that the corona policy of this government has cost us all? I am already very excited whether this will be the working population or the pensioners, I do not know who you want to rip there and where you want to bring these 100 billion euros back. Economic growth cannot be said, even that has come out quite clearly from the AMS. The AMS is only expected to relax in the labour market in 2024. That is, all the stories we have heard from experts, including in the committees, unfortunately, God's image is a very dramatic one. I have to say, Mrs Minister, I think you are trying, but you are obviously left very alone, as you can see at the government bank. It is a dramatic situation that we have, with over 400 000 unemployed and 300 000 people in short-time work. In fact, the entire government team should sit here and explain to the people and to the assembly what is going on and how to think of getting it under control. You are left alone here, and I do not hope or I do not wish you, Madam Minister, that you will be a sacrifice if it is not possible to explain it any more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16566	Next speaker: Mrs Verena Nussbaum. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16587	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Dear High House! I will return to the short-term proposals of the NEOS. The motto of NEOS is otherwise always: Less state, more private!, and now Mr Loacker suddenly calls for a promotion, including a bonus malus system for companies that were not dependent on short-term work support. [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Meinl-Reisinger and Scherak.]] Another request was that the AMS should now provide a full-time job for people in short-time work. So I don't know what's going on with you – the meaning of these measures is absolutely not understandable for us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The short-time work itself has become a very proven and tried-and-tested system, and that the social partners have negotiated a system to secure jobs at the beginning of this corona pandemic in record time was the most important measure to stabilise the labour market. However, short-time work not only ensures jobs, but also promotes – and I think that is, essentially – the preservation of purchasing power, and only in this way could a complete collapse of our economy be prevented. This also shows us how important it is in this area to be able to react quickly. In the meantime, we have reached phase three for short-time work, where working time will have to be at least 30 percent and the economic justification by the tax advisor will also need why businesses should use short-time work. It is also now important, I believe, that training measures will be possible in-house. Although this is limited to March, it is still an important alternative in order not to have to give notices – the social partners have so far agreed – but I assume that this will probably have to be extended further. Federal Chancellor Korz has now informed us that labour market policy will be one of his highest, highest priority, and I would suggest to him, but also to you, Mrs Federal Minister, a model which has already proved successful in some enterprises and would be very suitable for stabilizing the labour market and for a fairer distribution of work: It is now high time for a reduction in working time with full wage compensation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Niss.]] The last reduction in working time in Austria is now 45 years ago. Since then, much has been done in the world of work, and we are working faster and more efficiently than ever before. [[Call the ÖVP:Tell the companies that...!]] Talk to the companies in Austria who have already made this voluntary! Listen to the positive experiences of these companies and how a reduced weekly working time affects the motivation and performance of employees! I think we'd all benefit from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16645	Next speaker: Mr Klaus Fürlinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16666	High Bureau! Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! I would like to say, first of all, that there is a constant fall out here, that the measures taken by the Federal Government would be due to the fact that in Austria it is not economically indebted to this crisis is a virus. [[Abg. Anger: Why? Then what?]] This country, ladies and gentlemen, lives from export and tourism. These are our essential bringers. If the other countries around us, whether Italy, Switzerland or Germany, partially close, then even if we do not close anything and let everything go unhindered, no one will buy our goods and no tourists will come. The effect would be the same, except that we had more sick and more dead. If you want to, you have to say this out here loud! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The second, which is a bit annoying: There are some applicants or speakers out here who are celebrating more or less the coming pleite wave, they are formally speaking, they are tingling in it in all the spirit and are waiting to perhaps become political crisis winners. At the same time, confidence is required and the measures are to be repealed. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a contradiction in itself, especially in your speech, Mr Wurm, to argue, on the one hand, that the Federal Government would not be able to manage the crisis and at the same time demand confidence. This confidence, Mr Wurm, must all be brought outside. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] Of course, the economy is psychology, and if we sit down here and tease ourselves and say that it's all bad and it's going to be disastrous, then that's what's going to happen to us. At the same time, I note that Covid has also arrived in the middle of FPÖ with your requests, because you want to take action, you want to distribute more money. That's good. Of course, we want to distribute money in the crisis, help families, help the unemployed, help businesses. We've only done all this for a long time, what you're applying for here. We supported the unemployed with a single payment, we gave every child 320 euros to start school in September – 1.8 million children. These are social measures you must not overlook. We have also made investment premiums. We have so far had applications for a total of over EUR 1.6 billion, we support entrepreneurs in this country so that they can make investments. You can't do something better. If that doesn't stimulate consumption, then, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know what else it should be. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to say one thing: At the end of this crisis, and an end will come, we will be measured at one – and I believe we will all be together in politics and not just the Federal Government: We will be measured by whether we can ensure, improve and preserve the health and life of our country people, and we will be measured by how we came through this crisis economically. This admiring is a difficult undertaking, but I think we can do it together. And it is also the task of this House, the Austrian National Council, to send a signal from here, to give a positive signal, a psychological motivation. The Austrian entrepreneurs and the Austrian workers are good and strong enough to create it with our financial bridge, with our labour market policy – in particular thanks to Mrs Aschbacher, who is very active in doing the right thing here – and that we will work together, we will be measured. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Maurer]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16728	Next speaker: Mrs Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16752	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! I would like to return briefly to Sebastian's responsibility. We all remember, three years ago he announced that there will be 100 more women's homes. We have zero women's homes to this day. Before the summer, he announced that it would actually be such that a work foundation will be established for the whole of Austria. Today we know that we have learned that this is not the case, but that work foundations are a special model of reintroducing people seeking work, part of a grant to the AMS, Mrs. Minister; these 642 million euros to two years. So the EUR 700 million announced today by the Minister of Finance will also be divided into two years, and most of this money has been withdrawn from the AMS in the past. – So much for the responsibility of our Federal Chancellor. I would now like to address the request made by the Liberals regarding the Covid-19 package of measures. Many of our demands are in this package of measures, and the rest are typical anti-foreign and anti-foreign demands of the FPÖ. That is why there was no agreement from us. I hope we agree here in the House that people who live and work here and pay their taxes are all equal and not different. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to take two measures, in which we are on the one hand d’accord and in which you are responsible, Mrs Minister – the Federal Chancellor has not yet taken this responsibility: This is when people have become unemployed and are now sleeping in long-term unemployment due to the corona crisis. There is a one-time payment of 450 euros, which, by the way, did not get all the unemployed people – you have to say that – a drop on the hot stone. I think it is important – and this is the request of the liberals; we have been demanding this for a very long time – that, at least during this Corona crisis, we receive the net replacement rate, 70 percent of the last reference, as unemployment benefit. must be able to survive so that you can survive the winter so that you can pay the rent and that it will continue halfway; with a prognosis – and that has already been said today – the two board members of the AMS, which was not so great. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] These rosy descriptions from you: Everything will be fine, the economy will attract!, many do not believe in it alone, ladies and gentlemen, and that must be said. The second story is: What can a mother buy from her flowering statements, Mrs. Minister, which have not yet been granted from the Family Hard Fund to this day, or which – and this is also in the request of the Freeman – still has no certainty as to when Mr. Fäsmann somehow sinks in chaos and closes the schools? In this respect, it must be ensured that this special care period, which you continue to extend, will be maintained. But the people have nothing of that, the mothers, the fathers have nothing if they have to agree with the employer. If they are not replaced by 100 per cent of the last salary and the companies also keep this money back from the remuneration payment fund, this will be of no use. So what do the announcements make when people look at us today and have no certainty that they can use anything of it to come through this crisis half way?
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16815	Mrs. Christine Aschbacher has now spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16837	Madam President. Mr. Health and Social Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers! As the Minister for Labour, Family and Youth, I would like to comment here today, because I am very grateful for the fact that, as a whole, we have been able to put our focus on the budget as a whole, namely to fight for jobs, to secure them and to create new ones, and at the same time to ensure employment. Here is a warm thanks to all those involved that what we have said will also be implemented and implemented. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] In order to clarify: The figures and developments in the labour market are serious, they are very serious. This week we have over 409 000 people seeking work or training. This is an increase of 4,500 people to the previous week. We also recorded such an increase in the previous year. This means that the effects are currently seasonal. Nevertheless, we still have 72,000 people looking for work as a result of the crisis. In particular, we want to support these people and all the people looking for work with our concrete measures so that they can get back into employment as soon as possible, or, if necessary – and even here we support massively with 700 million euros – in training and in qualification that they have better job opportunities when the economy attracts again when there are better and more jobs. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Accordingly, the labour market policy objectives for the coming year are also set and decided on in the Board of Directors. These are five key objectives which are superior to all the measures and programmes that we then implement and implement together with those concerned. First of all, this is the placement of people, so to bring them back into employment quickly. This is our top priority. This is where all the employees work. Employees in the AMS on high-speed tours, and for this special commitment I would also like to thank you. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Secondly, the job offensive. The job offensive is an investment in people where it is necessary, where we now support, so that we can best communicate people in the future, with 700 million euros for 100,000 people in the coming years. We're starting it now in October, that's a mix of measures. A central mix, a central pillar in it is, of course, the work foundation, are different work foundations. This is where we rely on the proven systems that support regionally safe, with the various forms of the work foundation. But we also rely on further training measures because people can now use the months over the autumn and winter to further education in digitalization, in various language courses and much more. They should continue training during short-time work or even when they are looking for work. We also invest in this so that people can afford it. We support with an educational bonus of a total of 180 euros, if you complete education and training for more than four months. From the first month on, this educational bonus will be transferred. At the same time, we have also focused on supporting women, mothers, women as a whole disproportionately. For example, this is also a focus in the job offensive. Programmes that we know need even more support – such as Job Navi for young mothers or women in technology – will be expanded and will also be given regional support where there is also a need. The labour market is also a market with supply and demand, which we want to further develop and take advantage of. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] When we look: Of course, there is a shortage of skilled workers there and there. Now, in this situation, it is our central concern – and there will also be the focus next year – to close this gap so that we develop and qualify people with a more professional orientation where they also see themselves permanently on the labour market. We want to close this gap, but at the same time we are investing in special target groups, such as, for example, that we have been addressed before, because in the debate we were interrupted by the urgent – we have 40 million euros of additional budget in the coming year, namely for the integration of people with disabilities into the labour market. It is also a question of being needed, to pursue a meaningful activity and also to have a day structure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In recent weeks, I have considered some examples of how we can develop this even better in order to support people with disabilities as much as possible in taking a sustainable foothold in the labour market. Accordingly, the fifth objective focuses on young people. It has already been mentioned several times today, and you know it is me and, I can say, the entire federal government is a heart concern that we do not leave behind a Lost generation, but instead give young people opportunities, courage and prospects. In the course of the Youth Employment Task Force, we have put in place a number of measures which I would like to draw up in the framework of an interim report. Before that, however, I would like to inform you briefly of the status quo: We have 6 000 young people seeking work more than in the previous year. At the same time, we have succeeded in bringing 25,000 young people back into employment since the peak of mid-April. Everyone and everyone we put back into employment is a step in the right direction. We do everything we can to support young people as best we can. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We were able to create a teaching post over the last few weeks and months from a teaching gap that we recorded at the beginning of the summer with our concrete measures: We record 399 open teaching places in Austria. At the same time, we have regional challenges, which we meet, for example, with the Just-2 Foundation and with the mobility package for a total of 1 000 young people. We allow flexibility, we support the move to housing, or even the cost of housing, when moving beyond the country of the home country, thus showing flexibility. Accordingly, these are already concrete measures of the Youth Employment Task Force, and through concrete measures such as the apprenticeship bonus it was possible for us to place 8 900 apprentices on the first labour market directly in the enterprises. This is a matter of making a meaningful daily activity, of completing training and of implementing and applying the learner directly. At the same time, with a second measure, we are trying to intensify training until 18. The youth coaching provides vocational support, as well as the training Fit programme. We have increased by 3.5 million euros to accompany additional 500 young people as best we can. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] In order not to leave anyone behind, we have also increased the over-company apprenticeships needs-oriented. Half of the increases are necessary in Vienna, due to the situation that here in the big city seven young people come to an open teaching area. Of course, we also need to address these challenges so that we can provide young people with either a further education or an apprenticeship. Accordingly, it is also important not to forget the Just-2 Foundation – which I have just mentioned – including the mobility package. I am very glad that the Minister of Finance was able to present the budget for next year today. Also important is: We have close coordination and cooperation with the AMS. The AMS employees are equipped in such a way that in the challenging weeks and months to come, we will get through the crisis as best we can and at the same time prepare for the forecasts that we hope will come next year. Our top goal is to get people back into employment. As a result, it is important to me that we work together here, to give people courage, to show perspectives and to provide them with various programmes that are close to the best possible workplace, so that the people who make an education and training can also have concrete job opportunities. Thank you very much for the togetherness and the on-one-stranging. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16964	Mr Alois Stöger has now been mentioned. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16985	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The situation in the labour market – and this is the starting point of today’s discussion – is anything but rosy, and that is, among other things, due to a virus – I give colleagues Fürlinger quite right. Yeah, that's right, she's due to a virus. In some cases, the Federal Government – and we have had this in the previous debate – has been quite involved in the fact that the matter has been a little bigger. That may be. The most important measure in the field of labour market policy, however, was that trade unions have shown relatively quickly that social partners have been able to provide people with safety. The measure of short-term negotiated short-term work, when 1.4 million people were put into short-time work – we still have a lot of people in short-time work – has caused people in the crisis to have stability, though with lower incomes, and still have a perspective. We have also managed to ensure that the companies were also sure that they had their employees again that the qualified persons would remain in the holding, so that development could also be made forward. I just wanted to say that at the beginning the Federal Government has made 400 million euros available, we have achieved after a long struggle that we are now at 12 billion euros. Everyone recognises that short work was actually the largest and most important measure to reduce the effects of the pandemic on the economy. Social Democratic Social Ministers or Labour Ministers would have acted quite differently in a few points. As the labour market looks like today, we would have increased the budget for the labour market sector. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have not been able to read this out with Mr Blümel today, this area has today fallen back to the level I had in 2017. No more coming. They have brought this back to the 2017 stage, but we have a little more unemployment today. We have increased the budget of the AMS to facilitate the care and mediation of people without work, yes, we have done so. We've also received staff, we've taken it away again, and now we're going to do something again: 350 people, but you actually need more. Whatever we did – I say that very clearly again – it was that we looked at it: What people really have problems? – These were those who were over 50 and unemployed. We have not only said beautiful words to these people in action 20,000 at a difficult time, but we have actually accommodated them in a business. [[Call to the ÖVP: No, not again the 20 000 action! These were not sustainable jobs!]] This was a labour market policy that deserved this name. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I do not like the anglicisms about methods and what they say. I hear a lot of hollow phrases there. I don't like that anymore, but you're used to a lot. What have we – I am asking quite specifically – done with regard to the objectives that the AMS has decided? – We have set ourselves a clear goal: There must be a placement of people with disabilities on the labour market through the AMS, and that was one of five targets. I can't find it now. 40 million euros will not be enough. We have also said quite clearly: We want to give people up to 25 a training guarantee. This is the difference to the sentence: We all want to communicate quickly! – One can all communicate quickly, but then people up to 25 will not go into training because the quick means go at the expense of training. In the sense, I think it would be necessary to make a modern policy. This would mean that we need a federal foundation for companies and jobs, we need an active labour market policy, we need an increase in unemployment benefit, we need a reduction in the halvion of apprenticeship compensation in over-company training, and we need a community investment concept that deserves this name too.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17036	There is now no mention of this. That concludes this debate. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. I ask the political groups if we can proceed to the vote immediately. - Well, then I'll go like that. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Vote on agenda item 8: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 392 of the supplements. Who is in favour of taking note? – This has been noted by a majority. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Loacker, colleagues, on the communication of workers in brief by the AMS. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is accepted by a majority. [[Unrest in the hall.]] (101/E) (Applause of the Court of Justice) (Applause of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, of the European ) Agenda item 9: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 393 of the supplements. Who is in favour of taking note of the report? – This is accepted by a majority. [[Unrest in the hall.]] . I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are in the voting process. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 10: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 394 of the supplements. Who is in favour of taking note? – This has been noted by a majority. Agenda item 11: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 395 of the supplements. [[Unrest in the hall.]] . I would really ask for a little more attention if we were in the voting process. Thank you. Who is in favour of taking note of this report? – It has been noted by a majority. [[18:52:54]] 12. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 549/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on the amendment of the Chamber of Labour - RHO: detailed financial result presentation in accordance with: Chamber of Commerce-HO (396 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17161	We are now going to Agenda item 12. There was no oral reporting. Mr Loacker is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17189	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Our request is aimed at the fact that in the case of securities transactions for the Chamber of Labour the same rules as for the Chamber of Commerce This is the first time that the The two chambers swim in money and have invested three-digit million in securities. While the Chambers of Commerce in their annual accounts – such a board does not make a real balance sheet, which only makes a form of conclusion – have to demonstrate how much securities gains and losses they make and that the supervision, namely the woman minister of the economy, is known, the Chamber of Labour does not have to do that, but it balances the securities transactions and only has a total amount of securities income. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] It is our intention that this also divides the Chamber of Labour so that the individual financial assets and their profits and losses are identified separately – i.e. the same rules for all chambers. One would think that it would not be too much required that the workers of their Chamber also know what the self-employed experience from their Chamber. They will later hear very strange things in the counter-arguments, such as that this is an attack on self-government. – Moment, so if the Chamber of Commerce has to reveal this, it is not an attack on self-government, but at the Chamber of Workers, is it one? - It doesn't make sense. In reality, this is a power cartel of ÖVP and SPÖ, because of course the ÖVP fears: Oh, if you are now creating more transparency at the Chamber of Labour, someone could come up with the idea that you want to have a little more transparency at the Chamber of Commerce; and we do not want transparency at all. – In reality, it is therefore about the workers’ experience of their Chamber as much as the self-employed. Appreciate audiences, listen now to what cocky arguments are argued, why you should not know what is happening to your money! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I have one more motion for a resolution to make.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17234	Mr deputies, one second, because now I have to start your speaking time again, because of course this is about your speaking time. - So, now it's all right, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17249	I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[18:56]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17347	So, now this motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Bettina Zopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17374	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! We, the National Council, are the elected representatives of the people, and our task is to create the best possible framework conditions for people in Austria. This started with the Chamber of Workers in 1918 – over 100 years ago. The Chamber of Labour is an institution that works for our workers and represents their interests. Other countries would be glad if they had such an institution. The Chamber of Labour, as well as the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Agriculture, is subject to self-administration. This means that state institutions can only influence them by means of legislation. The system has grown for years, has constantly developed, and most importantly: It has been profiled especially in recent years. These institutions, our chambers, do everything in their power to advise and represent their members in the most diverse situations. We should not install more instruments, but rather support the Chambers and promote specialised support. In a survey, 80 percent of the members evaluated the Chamber of Labour with at least good. What is the recipe for success? – The word self-management says everything: The different working groups can and should manage themselves. That means: In decisions, only people who know exactly what it's all about. That is exactly what these institutions make up. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Therefore, it is the wrong way to simply create a mandatory regulation. Mr Loacker, with your request you have now questioned the board with its type of accounting and disclosure of the accounts, as follows: There are nine chambers of the country. First, each Chamber of State shall be examined by the Federal Court of Auditors. Secondly, a control committee shall be established where the chairman does not come from the majority group. Thirdly, each Chamber of State shall be examined by an auditor. Now my question, Mr Loacker: What's wrong with that? Over the years, the chambers have themselves imposed their own control system, even triple. The chambers represent their members according to best knowledge and conscience and are always at the side of their members in every situation of life with advice and action. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] But if you still have the feeling that you want to work for the workers in the Chamber in the future or would like to change something on the system, please register and take a foothold, because my foreign exchange is: First take part, then talk along and then decide!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17431	Next speaker: Mr Christian Drobits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17453	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Now, in item 12 of the agenda, we have an invitation to Mrs Bundesminister to make an amendment to the framework budget regulation of the Chambers of Workers. This call would probably be a huge danger to them, not perhaps to be retiring, because it would in principle intervene in self-government and would not have the opportunity to do so without a legal basis. Thank God, Mr Loacker, through the recent motion for a resolution, has prevented this legal gap and also the possible resignation of the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs. Well, in principle, Mr Loacker, I think I will not blow into the same horn and beat in the same notch as many others who would say: Well, another request from the Loacker! Since 2018, you have made a total of 35 applications against chambers, especially the Chamber of Workers, and I will not, as I have said, beat the score and say that this is an attack on social partners or on self-government. I would like to give you advice today and also an invitation. A tip or a possible variant to get out of this dilemma in which you are stuck – because you often seem to me like Don Quijote, who fights against windmills when it comes to the chamber system and legal interests – is that you really recognize that there are laws in this case. Under these laws, a framework budget regulation has been drawn up, and this framework budget regulation is made and implemented by the self-administrative bodies and subsequently controlled and audited by the supervisory authority. That's nothing new, that's right, that's right, that's legal, and that's what we all created. The second point or the second possibility to convince you is that I think there is a confidence index, and in this confidence index, the Chamber of Labour is almost a point behind the Federal President and still in front of the Court of Auditors with very high trust. It would really be your idea now, too, that you say: I would like to return this confidence of the population and accept that the Chamber of Labour and the other legal interest groups are doing good work. The third point I give as a tip is this film: “in commitment to justice”. [[The speaker shall hold a document containing the appropriate title.]] A total of EUR 538 million was launched by the Chamber of Workers in 2019, two million consultations were carried out and 93 400 legal representations were held in the final effect. This is the true business card of the Chamber of Workers and the answer to your application today. In conclusion, the invitation: I would like to invite you, even after consultation with the director of the Federal Chamber of Labour, to a personal discussion with your colleagues, because openness and transparency are important, and perhaps you can make some changes on a voluntary basis precisely because of your request. I think that's the way to make politics together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17499	Next speaker: Mr Markus Koza. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17525	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to all the political and content differences that may exist between NEOS and FPÖ, they regularly meet again in one point, namely, where it is somehow against the legal representations of interests in Austria, i.e. against the chambers, in our present case also against the Chamber of Workers. This application is obviously intended to give rise to the impression of some opaque, opaque financial ventures in the AK, which are urgently to be remedied from outside, otherwise it would not be put. In the meantime, Mr Loacker should also have made it clear that the BMAFJ is not responsible for the framework budget regulation and for any changes to the same, because they decide, according to the AK Act, the democratically elected self-government bodies. So NEOS now just want to change the law. The fact is, the financial resources of the Chambers of Workers come from the members themselves. The use of these resources, the budget is decided, used and controlled by the members themselves through the democratically elected institutions. Further: The Workers' Chamber Act – precisely in §§ 61 ff. – regulates the financing principles of the Chamber of Workers and lays down in § 63 the minimum content of the framework budget regulation to be decided by the Annual General Meeting of the Federal Labour Chamber, its democratically elected self-government body. The supervisory authority, i.e. the Ministry of Labour, must approve it. Like the decision, a change in the framework budget regulation is the democratically elected self-government bodies. The current framework budget regulation is of course also in conformity with the law, otherwise it would not have been approved. It is legally clear that Mr Loacker's first request, namely that the supervisory authority should intervene in self-administration, is not legally possible, because it would be unlawful to intervene in self-administration and thus, ultimately, also unlawful. As a result, the NEOS want to change the law because they came up too late. Dear NEOS, we will not change the law, of course, because for us the self-management, the organization and administration of the interests by those concerned is a high democratic asset. I'll make you a suggestion: If you choose the Chamber of Workers, then become active within the framework of self-management and can put the corresponding initiatives there, or make a member petition – even that is possible – which will then be treated accordingly in the AK, or simply call in the Chamber of Workers, raise your concerns and concerns, meet with AK Director Klein – a very sympathetic person who likes to talk to you! Don't worry, take the step! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17566	Next speaker: Mrs Rebecca Kirchbaumer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17590	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! The NEOS have long had a problem with social security and with the principle behind it. It is simply incomprehensible for NEOS to conduct a wage negotiation between employers and employees and to negotiate the framework conditions for employees and employers who guarantee legal certainty and protection for both sides. In our neighbouring country of Germany, there is no social partnership, but there are numerous associations that achieve the horticultural membership amounts, and then represent them in their interests – quite, sometimes bad – in their interests. Our social partnership has done great work in Austria for decades, and we are also proud that we have these chambers, which are there for our employees, and yes, also for agriculture and for our entrepreneurs. [[Congratulations to the ÖVP and to Mr Maurer and Mr Ernst-Dziedzic.]] The Members of the NEOS may not have fully understood that at this time of the crisis, it was a health and an economic crisis, not a financial crisis of the two or the three chambers, which they basically put on with 35 requests. It must also be said that employers' and employees' representatives in the wage negotiations of the metallurgicals have faced the enormous challenges and have gone ahead with the best example. Mr Loacker, I have been a member of the wage negotiations for many years and can tell you: I have never experienced such a good cooperation, and I am very proud that we have grown together in just such a crisis. That is why I would like to thank all the representatives of the negotiators for this great cooperation. – Thank you very much for not being driven apart in this crisis, but holding it together. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Now, however, I come to Mr Loacker's proposal on this subject, under the motto: And every day the marmot greets. As has already been said – 35 applications concerning the Chambers have been heard since 2017. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] The NEOS want to eliminate the right to self-management. In concrete terms, it is about the framework budget regulations of the Chambers, and you want to have a more detailed formulation. I think it's already in the word: Self-management is also self-determined. We have no right to intervene, and this applies to the Chamber of Commerce. The NEOS once acted as a liberal economic party; they have now become the regulatory and criminal party. At this time of the pandemic, it is not a goal to make a bulwark between the social partners, but we must keep up with it by a distance, so that we can best deal with this crisis. Let's get together by a distance!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17653	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. I ask whether we can come to the votes immediately. – Well, then we come to the votes. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 396 of the supplements. Whoever is in favour of taking note of the report, I would ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Loacker, colleagues, on the amendment of the Chamber of Labour: detailed financial results in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. [[19:12:20]] 13. Point Report by the Committee on Consumer Protection on amendment 658/A(E) by Mr Peter Wurm, colleagues, on the reduction of bank interest rates to 5 per cent (391 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17717	This will be the item on the agenda 13. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr Markus Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17744	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! I do not see the Minister in the room now. Ladies and gentlemen! It was the second meeting of the Consumer Protection Committee during this period of government: nine applications – one request jointly from SPÖ and FPÖ, four applications from SPÖ, four applications from FPÖ. You can see: Nine applications and there is nothing left. That means: What does the government do in the field of consumer protection? - For the second time, she doesn't do anything. That is what consumers in this country should hear. Of course, it can be said that there may be no issues for consumer protection, because the Corona crisis is, and perhaps you don't have to do anything about it. I believe, however, that there are a lot of issues where regulations are needed. What, I think, has already been terrifying in the committee is this disinterest, which has partly been clearly expressed by Members. I would like to thank the NEOS who, although they did not have their own requests, took a very active and intensive part in the discussion and also made quite controversial contributions. That is exactly what I believe Parliamentaryism must be: an exchange of arguments, a struggle for positions. I would like to thank you for this lively discussion in the Committee. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We ourselves will not agree with the request of the liberals to cover the interest rates, although he addresses an important issue, because of course we all know: At the end of the money, there's often a damn lot of months left. This is a phenomenon that many people in this country know. Only a few in this country know what it means to pay negative interest rates – and that is certainly true in this country – but most of us know what over-interests are. If today the interest rate level is zero and you have interest rates of 10, 12 percent, no person understands that. Of course, it is a correct proposal from Mr Worm to cover the current interest rate by 5 per cent, but we want a solution that is sustainable, and we believe that it requires an extra charge on the guiding interest rate to be fixed – also about 5 per cent – but we reject this rigid limit of 5 per cent. What are the government parties doing? – Without anything, they did not want to stand there in consumer protection, so they make an §-27 application, that is, they rely on an existing application on it. That's where you think: But now they will really make concrete demands, now they will not just be a little dirty. The concrete demand: Financial education is to be included in the local curriculum – in concrete terms. For information on the legal right to change the account free of charge: The Federal Chancellor has 60 people in his press office; in comparison: Debt counseling has 120 people. If you want to, just tell Mr. Kurz to order his press office to do so. Then it's done and we don't need our own request for it. The next topic is information about the bank calculator – this is a worker chamber performance. It's nice if you want to support the Chamber of Labour, I just didn't see how much you want to pay for so she can give the information and apply for her bank calculator. Information work on the basic account: I'll give that back to the Federal Chancellery. The latter – and this is really the Chuzpe –, the information on advice offers for debtor advice: We have put forward a request that it needs a higher dosage of debt advice, because, I think, in the last debate, we have shown very impressively how quickly from a simple debt of a few hundred euros, which is quite easy to act, at once can become a demand of a few thousand euros. This happens if you don't respond in time. The debtor's advice needs additional money and additional staff. What's going on in the committee? – It is postponed with the argument: That's what we're looking at. That's being checked. – Then the Managing Director of the Debt Advisory writes: You're testing this right now? Why doesn't anyone talk to us? – Then the feedback comes from the ÖVP club: It would be nice if you would tell us a little what you're doing in debt advice so we could know something. Tell me, how seriously do you take the subject? There is the instrument of advice, the debtor's advice, there's a financial driver's license – if you had meant this seriously and really wanted to do something, you would have written in your request: 100 000, 200 000 euros in addition to debt advice to make these trainings a financial driver's certificate. - Nothing happened. You're just talking about show. There are really important issues for consumers. In addition to this request, we also had the request to finance the VKI. We have decided this together before, but it will not be implemented by you. The managing director was sitting here and told us how the VKI was doing. He said he needed 5 million euros. After that, he fell dead when he insisted that you had postponed the application, because he believed what the Minister said – namely that legal certainty and planning for the employees needed. He believed that. When he then insisted that you had already delayed this again, he did not understand the world anymore, but that's exactly how your consumer protection policy – a big announcement policy. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Deimek and Mr Worm.]] Finally: We have found – especially with these 450 euros for unemployed people – that it needs to ensure the minimum of living that is not acceptable. What did you do with this request? - Again postponed. You don't do anything for the people in this country except show policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17823	Next speaker: Mrs Ulrike Fischer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17845	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear viewers! Of course, the issue of over-indebtedness is serious, and Mr Wurm's request has something for itself. If you look at the Euribor, you have to talk about the interest rates. However, this will not work in such a way that a recommendation is made in a committee and says: Now we make over-interests up to a maximum of 5 percent. – But it would be very high the time when stakeholders – the banks, the competent ministries, including consumer protection organisations – are being brought to a table to find a common solution. However, this measure can only work in the medium term. But what already works – and I am very grateful for that – is the credit moratorium. You all know, ladies and gentlemen, that credit claims are currently being incurred. This is an effective measure so that there is no over-indebtedness. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We know the most important thing to not get too much into debt is that you react in time. I see this with me in the community. Not the people who really have worries and debts come to us and look for support and interest payments, but those who can afford it anyway, because those who are really poor are often too ashamed to look at. I think it's very important – let's stick to our request – that we provide relevant information on how to get out of debt. Addressed be the debtor's advice or the basic account, I can change my account free of charge – all of these things need to be made more transparent. As the NEOS often mentioned, of course, the formation of young people, of young people, is very important – this also says debt advice – so that it does not lead to over-indebtedness later on. That's where we can sit. More information is needed, and this is also transparent in the government programme. Of course, the funding of young people must start in time. And it is not the right incentive policy for me to say that over-indebtedness should rise, because that is really a threat to entry into the world of over-indebtedness. I would like to sum up our request once again and not to mention it. I think there's some inside that will help us to make debt easier to deal with in the future. “The Federal Government is invited to draw up measures to strengthen the information of consumers [...]. This includes in particular: - greater integration of financial education into national curriculums, - information offers on the legal right to change the payment account free of charge, - the information about the bank calculator [...] - the continuation of information work on the basic account. Anyone who cannot have an account can share in social life with a basic account. It is also very important that we teach the legally recognised debt advisory services accordingly. There I am with colleagues Vogl. I therefore ask you to agree that we invest in awareness raising and in young people so that debt policy is meaningful and can be well implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17921	Next speaker: Mr Peter Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17983	Madam President. Minister! High house! Fathers. Consumer protection is, as all those who have been working in the Committee for a long time, of course drilling very, very hard boards. I've been here a lot since the last few years. As a responsible chairman of the Committee, I believe we are trying to work together in principle in the Committee and achieve something for consumers. But what comes out for consumers is – and I cannot save you both as government parties – a disaster. I have now looked again, I already wrote the first requests in 2014 in order to stop almost this interest rate increase, this discount of consumers that is taking place through the banks – 2014, six years ago! We have been having this low interest rate phase for a long time, and it was already quite clear at that time that there is no longer any serious, which is a matter of paying some of the overdrafts as a consumer, when one is forced into this situation, in total 13, 14 or 15 percent. So this is a story that basically has to inform everyone. By the way, small businesses, EPUs, and not only individuals and families, are doing so. That is, it is a story that is relatively simple to explain: We have a zero interest rate level for the banks, that is, they don't need to pay for anything if they borrow money, but they sometimes require up to 13, 14, 15 percent of consumers. Our proposal was quite pragmatic, simply to include a 5 percent limit, that is, banks still deserve enough interest on the overcrowding, but it is not as big a piggy as it is at 13, 14, 15 percent. I should also like to point out to the Greens that I have looked at them in more detail: In 2015, colleague Berivan Aslan made a similar request with me, but at that time the Greens were still in opposition. At that time the Greens were really the Greens, now they are a bit of a beekeeper of the ÖVP. That's okay, I understand. When you sit down on the feeders of power, you forget a lot of things. You also forget the poor people, and the greens have forgotten the poor people in Austria. You have to let this accusation please you, there is nothing to stand by! – Just now we even have a green minister, so it’s actually a drama. [[Interference of Federal Minister Anschober.]] That is, if this request was useful six years ago, then he is now ten times more sensible in Corona times, Minister, since now – and you know it, we have discussed it several times today – it is a real social crisis, tens of thousands of families have to slumber into poverty and cross the account. [[Interference of Federal Minister Anschhober]] And you of ÖVP and Greens leave them in the rain, and they still have to pay these interest rates every month. Your proposal, which you have put in to ensure that any of you come to consumer protection, is to make it easy for the viewers that you want to inform and shape consumers. This is as if I don't throw a rescue ring to a drowner in the open sea, but I say to him: I'm going to explain to you in the open sea why you're gonna drown. I'll explain that to you. But what people in the open sea need would be a rescue ring. We have this commitment – you too, Minister! Please discover your green heart if you have one more to help the consumer and then draw a ceiling at 5 percent. That would be quite, very important! I can only say it again: Perhaps at least the Green Group can be prevented from going along with my request to really help tens of thousands of families. and not to comfort them on the Day of St. Nimmerlein. They're just helping the banks. That the Greens are now bank rescuers is also new to me, but in times like this one learns a lot about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18056	Next speaker: Mr Peter Weidinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18078	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! Dear Austrians and dear Austrians! This morning, Minister of Finance Gernot Blümel presented the largest consumer protection budget of all time: 50 billion euros for Austria, 29 billion euros for employment, for job security, for short-time work, for the Family Hard Fund, for the Children's bonus, for the apprenticeship bonus, for the people of our Republic, so that they can have enough money in their pockets and thus also make their contribution in security, because the government, because the majority of parliament looks at them. She sees that you look forward to having it when you need it – now. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We are also taking a step further, ladies and gentlemen. The opposition criticised the fact that the service providers in this Republic receive only a lot of applause – and rightly so – but they also receive money in the form of support from the majority of parliament and government. This is morally right, that is right for the future of this country, and that is right for consumers and consumers. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, There are expressions like swinery, interest-earners, pick-up. This is a choice of words, which is exactly the opposite of what we need in Austria. [[Abg. Worm: Everything is true, Mr. Colleague! It's all right!]] Mr Wurm, we need exactly the opposite. We need cohesion, and the banking sector is a crucial partner for us. If you want to state the banking sector, please say it by name. We are followers of the fact that a banking sector needs clear rules of play to help it get through the crisis as a good partner – which it has now proven. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen: The cash supply was always secured. Even in the first days of the crisis, when three times more has been removed, the branch network has worked. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] It has also worked digitally and analogously, ladies and gentlemen. That's right and that's good. From the very first day, the bank staff members understood that they are making their contribution when pensioners, as many like to do, come to the branches on the day of the disbursement of the pension – I looked at it myself in Villach – and they see that the baby elephant always fit in between, so that this target group could certainly do their money business there. I would like to express my heartfelt thanks to all employees in the banking sector. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will not support your request, Mr Worm. We will not therefore support him because, first of all, he confuses apples with pears in terms of content; secondly, because in the Consumer Payment Account Act, we have also provided a scheme for one to be suggested if one has a large minus that there is a change in a rate credit; and thirdly, all the people in the Republic who have difficulties with unemployment or with short-time work can rely on individual solutions at their bank institutions to get through the crisis together safely. Ladies and gentlemen, we are making a request. This request was made so by Mr Vogl, but I think that is typical SPÖ: Whenever it comes to strengthening the individual, putting it out of dependence, many socialists have a big problem with it. We're going the reverse way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] With this request, if it finds a majority, we will define financial knowledge and expertise in the economic field in the national curriculums. Why is that right and why is that good, ladies and gentlemen? – Just as the baby elephant is necessary to keep the infection numbers below, we need a swine, everyone at home, and also the knowledge of how to feed it well. [[Rejoicing with the NEOS]] You learn from childhood – we don't leave a child back – this is taught in school. For example, it will be possible to conduct work lessons and geographical and economic lessons together, so that the school children learn how to select materials together, how to process something, how to sell it then. That is, they learn the basic principles of supply and demand, consumption and production. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the question is how to cope in an increasingly difficult and complex world. If one hears in the news how many companies in the world there are, which business models they have, it is necessary with regard to a corresponding participation that the Austrians learn from childhood. Mr Gaby Schwarz has also expressed it today: We wish ourselves a fellow company. – Yes, that is what we want, with social participation. Knowledge is a prerequisite for this – and I am very, very glad that we have a solid majority of Parliament that sees it as it wants to strengthen the individual. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: With this decision, we will also step very clearly into the footsteps of Julius Raab, who said in 1958: It is about ensuring the freedom of people and their dignity. – Ladies and gentlemen, this decision is the best way to protect consumers, namely through education and financial competence.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18157	Next speaker: Mr Felix Eypeltauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18179	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! I can only follow my previous speaker's remarks on the plea for financial education. This is something we have been demanding for a long time, and we also say that this will certainly be the best and most sustainable consumer protection. We see the problems of lack of economic and financial education at the FPÖ's present request. Mr Wurm has already asked for maximum prices, at that time it was for consumer goods or food. This didn't work at Diocletian 301 before Christ, which didn't work in socialism and that wouldn't work nowadays. It was good that this request did not find a majority at the time and that today's request would not find a majority either. The use of an overdrafting framework is a credit and, of course, interest is paid for this loan. These are higher than for a normal loan, because also the framework conditions and costs are different from those of a normal credit. To do this, you have to say a few points: They are higher than for a normal loan because the agreed credit line must be held by the bank at any time and the bank cannot work with this money. They are higher because the bank cannot reliably plan liquidity, and they are higher because, unlike in the past, the bank has to deposit equity. For these reasons, interest rates are also higher than in the traditional credit we all mean when we talk about credit. Yes, overdrafts are dangerous. Yes, there is a need for more financial education, and more transparency is needed for consumers. There must not be an effect on habit, and we must all be careful that not too many people fall into debt, because it is often clear: once in over-covering, always in over-covering. We therefore also call for better provision of debt advice. I also agree with the speaker of my predecessor, Mrs Fischer, and I think the Minister is similar to that. That is where we can get the most; with this proposal, I think, we cannot do that, because whether it is 5 percent, or 6 percent, it is 10 percent: I do not think it is right to order this here in Parliament, but that is something you need to regulate with the banks and the banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18221	Next speaker: Mrs Corinna Scharzenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18242	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Dear listeners! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, I can talk about a request from the FPÖ about a legal restriction on interest rates and about a request from the government parties about a better consumer information in the area of financial services. The FPÖ's application aims to cover the overdraft interest rates by 5 percent – so far, so good. But it looks like the worm is inside in this request. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] In fact, some terms have at least been used unclearly or even in the same way: The interest rates you call over-interests are actually called interest rates, and the interest rates you call as penalty interest are actually over-interests. [[Cheerfulness and call of the Abg. Worm.]] In addition, in addition to the incorrect use of the terms, the meaning of an overdrafting framework was apparently not considered. The current account credit or overdraft framework is not intended as a long-term credit, but, if one wants to do so, as a boost for income fluctuations, i.e. to offset short-term bank transfers. For longer-term expenditure there are consumer loans, and for these loans only a fraction of the interest rate of the overdrafting framework is paid. In addition, the request calls for the penalty interest to be suspended if an account is transferred. Aside from the fact that the The concept of criminal interest rates in the context has already been misused is not necessary for this step either, because it is very simple and unbureaucratic to increase and extend the scope. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Wurm, a repeated crossing of the framework is therefore not necessary even in Corona times. It is sufficient to adapt the framework. Furthermore, it is called for that the banks should not surprisingly shorten or terminate the account framework. However, in the case of the overdrafting framework – as in any other credit agreement – changes are possible only in agreement with the customer. Ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the proposal, there is no longer much left to be approved. Members of the FPÖ should consider whether they do not agree with the request of the government parties. It is clear from Mr Worm's request that part of the Freedom Party also appears to have an urgent need for further assistance in terms of financial education. [[Congratulations to the EIA and MEPs of the Greens.]] It is precisely for this reason that the integration of financial education into local curriculum is so important. Having his own finances under control is important not only for entrepreneurs but also for workers, for employees, for students and for students. We already have some legal provisions to support consumers in the field of financial services, but we must also do information work. This applies, on the one hand, to the rights of consumers relating to financial services providers, on the other, to the possibility of using assistance in the event of financial problems. Sometimes there are only minor changes in the financial behaviour of those concerned, which are brought about by appropriate debtor advice and thus improve their financial situation. In order for these measures to be put in place more often early enough in the future and to help those concerned in this way, it will need easier access to debt advice. We need an information campaign for consumers in the financial sector, and this is best done at school. What we don't need is an additional provision, which then in practice does not really help anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18318	Next speaker: Mrs Agnes Totter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18339	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! Finance Minister Gernot Blümel presented today the key points of the 2021 budget. This, as well as current expenditure in 2020, is very much in line with the Corona crisis as a health crisis and its consequences in the economy and the labour market. With numerous aid packages is and has already been helped. Never in the history of Austria has more money been spent on work and employment. This year, EUR 6.8 billion for short-term work, EUR 182 million for one-time payments to unemployed people, EUR 90 million for emergency aid, EUR 15 million for the implementation of a three-week special care period has been decided. Our Federal Government also provides for numerous necessary economic and aid measures for 2021. Because I think this is so important, I would like to stress it again: There is and has provided assistance and support for workers, entrepreneurs, farmers, young and older people and people without employment or training. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The Federal Government thus ensures that no one is left behind. In addition to all these measures, it is also important to provide all Austrians with the necessary assistance for self-help in the sense of prevention, i.e. important instruments for self-help in financial matters. That is why we can only welcome this motion for a resolution. In this context, under the heading “Consumer education and information measures for consumers in the field of financial services”, the Federal Government “will seek to develop measures that will enable consumers to be more informed about the existing legal provisions in the field of financial services and the possibility of debt prevention in the future.” As a teacher, I know that increased integration of financial education into domestic curriculum is efficient and therefore indispensable. Special young people need to be trained in proper, responsible handling of money. Only when someone in young years knows how to properly budget will he be able to build up a fulfilled and self - determined life without overdebtedness. Furthermore, for consumers of all age groups, there will be information on the legal right to change the payment accounts free of charge. In addition, information on the bank's computer should be expanded in order to compare the offer of the banks. The continuation of information work on the basic account and on existing advice offers from the legally recognised debt services is important. In the first place, however, it is important to keep the Austrians from falling into debt and therefore invest in preventive measures. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as by Mr Maurer and Mr Jakob Schwarz.]] I am convinced that we are on the right track with financial education at our schools on the one hand and the expansion of information on the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18399	A second time Mr Peter Wurm spoke. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18424	Yeah, maybe just a little bit. So the wordplays with my family name are relatively easy, Mrs. Colleague. However, if you blame me for lack of financial knowledge, I may already point out that I have to explain some things or should. First of all, I would simply find it fair, especially from the ÖVP, but partly also from the NEOS, if one might explain why one gets stuff like that for the banks. You should say that quite clearly. Of course, there are banks that have a good lobbying, including Members, so that the interests of the banks are stronger than those of consumers. On the one hand, I should like to point out the following – probably only Members in your ranks, who may have been in Parliament for more than two years – that is: We have already collected a cover of up to 4.5 per cent for default interest at the SVS, i.e. in the case of social security for self-employed persons. Ask You will come to the appropriate colleagues of the ÖVP once more! So that's all right. If it does not feel the social security of the self-employed as a communist, then I believe that you should also think about it in the interests of consumers. I'll stay with you. There is the UWG, and this UWG is basically saying quite clearly that price increases are prohibited. What is happening in the area of overdrafting interest rates in Austria is price increases to the detriment of consumers. Perhaps a short time on the comments of Mr Wöginger, who is now so pleased about the result of Sunday in Vienna – these 20 percent. I congratulate him very much. 20 percent are super. We've had more, we'll have more. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, I would also advise the ÖVP to be a little humble; I think that would be a good thing for you. That's exactly what we're fighting for. People will also remember that only the liberals are there for them once it becomes tight. They will notice this, and the voters – yes, I feel a slight fear – will give us confidence again because they will notice that in the last episode the liberals are the social home party and for them. [[Objection to the ÖVP]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18481	There is now no mention of this. That concludes this debate. I ask the rapporteur whether he wishes a final word. - I see that's not the case. I ask the clubmen if we can come to the vote right now. - All right, then I'll get to the vote. First of all, I would like to put to the vote the request made by the Committee on Consumer Protection to take note of its report 391 of the additions to the resolution 658/A(E). Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the resolution on consumer education and information measures for consumers in the field of financial services annexed to the Committee's report 391 of the Supplements. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. [[102/E]] [[19:48:08]] 14. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on the motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18551	We now reach the 14th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I welcome Mrs Zadić in this debate and give the floor to Mr Harald Stefan as the first speaker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18579	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Justice Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it is an appeal to the government that it is committed at international level to increasing the age of punishment in other countries. I have to say that this is a subject where we have a problem as a FPÖ, if you so point out from the warm house to others with the moral finger, other societies perhaps even for what they are doing, and thus increase themselves morally. will. In any case, this is not our approach, and I will go a little further on it. That I may not be misunderstood: I am neither for an increase nor for a reduction in the criminal age in Austria. Everything I'm saying now must be put under the premise that we're not in favour of lowering the criminal age. Nevertheless, it must be recognized that things are seen differently in other societies. Now, if you think that there is a lower age of punishment in other countries, you have to say: There are also highly developed legal states with a lower age limit: England: ten years, Scotland for eight years, the Netherlands, which is not so far away: twelve years, New Zealand: ten years – and there are other countries too. It is therefore not the case that one can say that a lower limit of criminality automatically means that it is a state that does not normally deal with the rule of law, human rights and so on. This cannot, for example, be blamed on these states. In addition, you have to say honestly: We in Austria too have a social problem with unmistakable minors – that is, with minors who are under 14 years old. We have a phenomenon that more and more crimes are committed by people who are not guilty of punishment, so they cannot be punished in the sense of criminal law. However, we know cases of participation in group rape, robbery, drug trafficking. Also in the bedding and so on often criminal among 14-year-olds are used or committed by themselves for such crimes. That is to say, as a society in Austria, we have to deal with how we are doing in this country properly. As I have said, I am not in favour of lowering the border of criminality, but this is a phenomenon that has been increasing in recent years. For example, one might think about saying that it is a source of difficulty for someone to incite an unmistakable minor – because we know that children are often drawn to bed and so on. They may also be led to theft, pocket theft and the like, and then cannot be interested. The customer can clean himself up with this because there is no procedure being carried out. So it is a social problem that we have to deal with. In addition, I'm always bothered by this co-dual measure fair. We have already debated sanctions against Belarus today. There was an argument: Belarus has the death penalty. Yes, I am absolutely opposed to the death penalty, but I know that we have good relations with other states that also have the death penalty, including economically good relations. I am thinking of China and the USA, as this is not seen as an argument that one could no longer cooperate with them or at any meeting should point out that they will abolish the death penalty – because it will still fit into the concept, and that is why it is measured by two measures. Another typical case is the King Abdullah Centre in Vienna. Saudi Arabia has no codified criminality as far as I've found it. It is assumed that perhaps twelve years are the border to the mouth of punishment. In any case, there are media reports that someone who has participated in a demonstration as a ten-year-old is currently at risk of the death penalty. This King Abdullah Centre, which is largely financed by Saudi Arabia, however, we have this here in Vienna. That's what it's always about: Dialogue is important, with which we must engage in a dialogue. It's not said: No, that's unthinkable, with a state in which such a thing happens, We cannot work together with children who may even use the death penalty for such a person. That's in Vienna, it's not abroad. We are not talking about leading any other states to behave differently, but this is happening here in Vienna, this centre is located here in Vienna – and it is ultimately supported by all of us with tax money. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ernst-Dziedzic]] It is, therefore, two measures that we measure there. Belarus, by the way, has a criminal border of 16 and 14 years respectively. This too is quite different, for example. As has already been said: I think we should take care of the problems in our own country. So why not work better with how we do this better before we point the moral finger at others?
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18648	Next speaker: Mrs Barbara Neßler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18672	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! In a youth prison in Uruguay, children must spend 22 hours a day in the cells. The system there is based purely on physical punishment, there is no learning or work opportunities for children, and there is no resocialisation. Showground Kazakhstan: There are also physical penalties on the agenda. – These descriptions come from the human rights expert Manfred Nowak, who has taken on site a picture of the cruel conditions and of the children and young people who are exposed to the world. The criminal border is under 14 years of age in 120 countries worldwide, and more than seven million children are deprived of their personal freedom worldwide. That's what I'm asking myself: Have these children who have experienced such a hard fate deserved such a deal? Have they deserved to be exposed to mental and physical violence every day? Do they deserve to be deprived of the right to freedom, the right to security and development? And did they deserve to be robbed of their childhood? – I say quite clearly: No, no child in the world deserves it. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and MEPs from ÖVP, SPÖ and NEOS.]] The vast majority here in the house sees that as well. There is a sad exception, and that is the FPÖ, which has already voted against in the Committee. This is not, as you have mentioned, Mr Stefan, about an increase of your own or whatever you have mentioned, but it is about international action. As you have addressed the situation on the ground, the problems on the ground: I think you have to pack the problem at the roots, and that means we have to start with education. We must start with violence against children, and in this respect our Minister has already put in place important and great measures. We must start with the fight against poverty and not think about whether we are extending the penalties or whatever. Instead, let us tackle the problem at the roots! It is about the withdrawal of seven million children, children who are robbed of their childhood. Let's not forget one thing: Children are children and not young adults. In childhood, the personality, emotional relationships, social skills and talents develop. The detention takes the children not only their childhood, but also their future. I am pleased about the request and I also thank you for the cooperation with Mr Kugler of the ÖVP and would like to appeal again towards FPÖ: Voices (The sitting was suspended at 3 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18724	Next speaker: Mr Harald Tür. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18745	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, not only is it about children, justice and prison, but it is also about children and young people growing up in their own death cell. For me, politics also means not to look away. Not to look away must also be a fact, if in 120 countries of this earth the limit is less than 14 years. Seven-year-olds in some countries are known to be seven-year-olds! – in prison, and that's what it's all about today. Seven million children, this number has already been mentioned, have been deprived of their freedom by various forms of imprisonment. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Yes, I would like to give a dramatic example here, and this drastic example is death sentences and executions of children and young people in Iran. It is about the cases of human rights organisations and known cases – there are no official figures in Iran, so there are in fact much more. In the years 2005 to 2015, 73 executions of children and adolescents were carried out, eight of them children between the ages of 12 and 14 and 51 young people between 15 and 17 years of age, while the rest were not quite clear. Every death sentence is sad, but some death sentences simply make me feel sorry about the history. In Iran there are also executions for so-called enmity to God, for homosexual sexual intercourse and for drug offences. Udo Jesionek, the long-standing and legendary president of the Youth Court, criticised this fixed idea: If I provide a more stringent punishment, there is less crime. It is more convenient to call for a punishment than to think about how to pack it at the roots. It is therefore a matter of giving children a chance even in the face of bad deeds. It is about reintegration into society and, at the best, it is about reimbursing. It is simply a fact that with education, with employment and training, the future of children can be secured and reached more than with death penalty, with execution, with whipping or with dungeons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18785	Mrs Gudrun Kugler has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18810	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I think, you have to say thanks to the Ludwig Boltzmann Institute for Human Rights and Manfred Nowak, who presented this study in November 2019, which was not only conceived in Austria, but also around the world, in which UN high attention was given. I sent him another e-mail and asked him: Mr Professor, what do you say to me today when this issue comes to Parliament?, on which he has written me a few sentences which I would like to read to you now. These are very strong thoughts about what he personally experienced during the preparation of this study. He said, Mr Stefan, that might give you a few answers to your speech: I spoke to eight and nine-year-olds in a children's prison in Togo. These were street children who had been sentenced to a prison sentence for stealing and similar minor crimes they had committed to secure their survival. For these children, it was especially terrible that they were locked up in small cells, which they were allowed to leave for only a short time to walk around in the prison court. They had no access to prison education and no future prospects, as they would land on the streets again after they were released in the absence of any rehabilitation measures and social support. Unfortunately, many countries around the world are experiencing such sad children's schicksale. - Quote. The International Convention on Children's Rights says quite clearly, and this is completely out of dispute: Criminality from 14 years of age, if, then, accommodation in family-like structures, prison only as the last resort, and for these children and young people, the focus must always be on personal development, training, socialization or resocialization. Why do we make such a request today in the Austrian Parliament and why is this addressed to our Minister of Justice? – Because Austria can make a contribution both bilaterally and multilaterally – and you will take this up, Mrs Minister – but also within the European Union on this issue. In a globalized world, we are concerned with what is happening elsewhere, and, Mr Stefan, that is not a part-time finger-handling. After the Second World War, the international community has assembled and dealt with the question: How can we prevent such crimes in the future? and then we have defined human rights together. It is true that we do not want to or should always want to inspect everyone in every country, but there are basic structures, basic standards to which we have to assume responsibility for each other – the children in this prison in Togo cannot do it themselves. Austria and the European Union have political weight, have economic weight, and this should also be used to comply with these basic standards. I therefore very much regret that the FPÖ will not approve of this proposal. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] But if we are now talking about children in injustice, we can also look at other forms of insecurity, which are not related to institutions and state violence, and consider whether there is a need for action in Austria as well. I have looked at the recommendations of the UN Committee on Children's Rights, which were published in March 2020, and it says that Austria still needs action in some respects, for example in the fight against child trafficking – which is also a form of insecurity – and in the fight against child sex – and in combating sexual exploitation, in particular through child pornography. I think we need to take a closer look at the problem. If child pornography is eliminated in Germany, huge amounts of data, images of severe sexual abuse are ensured, then we must also in Austria ensure that such a thing is detected so that it is combated that such a thing does not happen. Interestingly, the ads in the field of child pornography have increased rapidly, I have read the number in the standard: From 2017 to 2018, ads rose by 58 percent. I believe that this is an issue that we must definitely look at in Austria. We must take these places seriously or perhaps even more seriously, because children, ladies and gentlemen, are the most valuable ones we have. We must not rob them of their childhood and we must not harm their little beings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18854	Dr. Johannes Margreiter is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18879	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear listeners at home in front of the screens! This request is great and of course finds our approval, it is quite wonderful – and yet I feel an evil side-effect. The words of you, Mr Neßler, were also very empathetic, have sounded very empathetic, and yet I am not doing well. And you know why? – Have a morning She rejected a request to save 100 children from Moria. Dear Barbara, you can exchange local names in your speech. Please put Moria in, and then you know why I feel this request. I am not saying the attribute now because I have already made a call for order today, but I am outraged by this dual nature. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Child protection is indivisible. The children of Moria are also entitled to this protection, especially now, where the first autumn and rain storms in the Aegean have them dipped. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Refuse this protection You continue because you believe it brings voices, and you will be right. Unfortunately, it still works. If we address the resentment and not the propriety and mind of the people, we can make voices. That seems to work. The resentment is the doping of politics. Doping in sport leads to success, I win – but it is objectionable and the success is on tone feet. This is the same with the political success that you achieve, because you distinguish here between children who might come to us as migrants, and children who are locked away in dark prisons far away. That's not how it works! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] After the experiences of two World Wars, there have been many decades of real consensus: With the resentment we do not make a policy, we do not! It was the FPÖ under Jörg Haider, who for the first time broke this consensus, and it is ghastly that and how now the ÖVP has jumped on this disastrous move. The success is right at first, but I say it again: This success is a short-term success, which is not sustainable. This is just as objectionable as a victory in sports, which has been dimmed by doping. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I appeal once again to this High House: Let us not put our policies on the cheap resentment! Let us address the mind and the state of the people! Only in this way will we achieve sustainable success for our community. And: Let's get kids from Moria right away! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18951	Mrs Federal Minister Dr.in Alma Zadić spoke on a point of view. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18972	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I welcome this request by Mr Kugler, Mr Ernst-Dziedzic, Mr Plakolm and Mr Neßler. I think it is extremely important for us as the Federal Government to work to ensure that the criminal border is also raised to the recommended level worldwide, namely at the recommended level of 14 years. For example, if we look at Austria, some things have been implemented in Austria: On the one hand, of course, we have a 14-year limit, but on the other hand our law on youth punishment also provides for milder punishment for people up to the young adult age. Why is that so? – This is so because children and young people have a priority, namely the resocialisation, the support of children and young people, so that they can retake their feet in society and find safe ways out of a criminal environment and lead a decent life with support – together with psychologists, with caretakers. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] The research is right, too. The research shows that the brain and thus the maturity are still developing up to the age of a young adult. During this time, of course, the child or the youth is exposed to much greater changes and the brain can change. That means that this is a very momentous time for a person. If you impose sanctions too early or even arrest children and young people, this will have a very negative impact on the development of this child. [[Call the SPÖ:Moria!]] Perhaps even the criminal career of young people at this age is solidified. If you look at international examples – many of them were mentioned in the individual speeches today – you can see – and that is unbearable and inhuman – how young children are imprisoned. Seven million children live in insecurity, and on the other hand, we must do something. [[Call the SPÖ:... Moria too!]] That is why, in the context of my opportunities, including with the Foreign Minister, I will, of course, be working to ensure that the limit of the penalty is set at the recommended level worldwide. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As you have referred to it, ladies and gentlemen, [[towards Abg. Kugler]] The fight against child pornography and, of course, also against child trafficking is a big concern to me, because – you have correctly quoted the numbers – the ads in the field of child pornography have increased enormously. We have exchanged at an informal meeting of the European Council, as well as with German-speaking Justice Ministers, what we can do together as the European Union in order to put a bar on this one border and also on this development. We see that in Germany the numbers rise – and they also rise in Austria. It is an organized crime that we can only fight together. – In this sense, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19029	Mrs Katharina Kucharovich is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19054	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! I just want to start with a thank you today. – Thank you for the request, in This is the case with the Members of the Government, because I consider this request and, above all, the content of it to be very central and very important. This is about children, it is about their protection and that is their rights. I think you can never be calmed down, but you always have to fight out loud for it. I think it is central that we do this together today. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and MEPs of Greens and NEOS.]] It has been mentioned: Seven million children and young people are deprived of their freedom. That's unimaginable – isn't it? –, truly unimaginable: seven million children and young people! It has already been mentioned, but I would like to support it once again: The UN Convention on Children's Rights clearly states: Liberation is the last, last means for children and young people, and this loss of freedom is to be kept as close and as short as possible. We have said that it must also be, as it were, adequately and very, very child-friendly. We have heard from you, Mrs Justice Minister, in the Human Rights Committee that new concepts are also being worked on in Austria, which leads to criminalising young people, accommodation and better monitoring. – I find it important and good that way; a thank you also at this point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] At the same time, however, we also know that there are very many countries where the age for reaching the mouth of punishment is very much less than 14 years; Mr Bayr spoke in the Committee on Nine, Mr Deer spoke today about seven years old. We really need to be very, very loud, vehement and without compromises for increasing the age for reaching the mouth of punishment – for children's rights always loud, vehement and without compromises! We must always be committed to this – the colleague of the NEOS has already mentioned it – and I must tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the EIA, but also the Greens, at this point: Children's rights are indivisible. You can't even be for it and then against it. This is not the case, it is simply not the case with children's rights and human rights. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] I honestly ask you: How many more are we to make here from this point of view? How many institutions, how many NGOs and how many church institutions do you need to say yes at last? – Let us evacuate the children from the mud in Moria, from the island of Lesbos. It is our duty to make our human commitment! [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff and Mr Eypeltauer.]] I really want to address this appeal to you at this point. You don't understand anyone anymore. How do you manage to be there for children's rights and not there? That's not going to work out. I don't understand, and I think no one really understands. Therefore, a great request: We live children's rights when it comes to deprived of freedom – as you express in your request, full support – but we also live children's rights when it comes to creating a decent and child-friendly life for all children. So get out with the kids out of the camps now! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19136	Member Christoph Stark has been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19165	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear fellow citizens! I spoke on this item on the agenda because I was allowed to attend the last meeting of the Committee on Human Rights and was touched by this subject, which shows an inconceivable situation that is simply different from international standards. I am grateful that today I am also allowed to speak about it and conclude this debate; a debate that is not about Corona, not about the budget and not about party policy. This does kind of well, even if the topic is a very, very sensitive and a very, very depressing one. Col. Stefan: I believe, Mr President, that it is not we who have to interfere somewhere, that for me is not entirely in keeping with our neutrality. However, if we are looking at international standards, it must be allowed and it must also be our role to hold a dialogue and to instruct our minister to conduct this dialogue at international and European level. I'm far from pointing my finger at someone and saying: You're doing it wrong! We need to be aware – and I am right in doing so – that other countries and other cultures have other social developments. However, there are international standards that are considered to be agreed, and one has to be allowed to discuss these standards. If Austria adopts a clear position on this, I believe that is only right and cheap, and I therefore ask the FPÖ to accept this request, which brings this request with it. Secondly, I ask colleagues from SPÖ and NEOS not to mix here: Without deceiving the topic of Moria, one must insist that these are two completely separate topics. On the one hand: In Moria there are children who are on their own, partly with their parents on the run and waiting for an asylum procedure; they are in a different legal context. We know – that was discussed enough – that if we or some other country bring 100 children from Moria – even if they do not want to do so in Moria – it will have a pull effect that we do not want and that Europe does not want. This is an inadmissible mixture of two topics, because in the other area it is about states that legal systems approve that children sit behind bars. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen: Just imagine Your child or grandchild, who is perhaps five, seven or ten years old, may grow up in sheltered surroundings – and then this child sits in a cell and has no perspective, no perspective at all! Ladies and gentlemen, we must and must speak about this, and I would therefore like to stress the request that we ask our Mrs Minister to discuss this at international level and to discuss it in order to bring about a change of opinion in the long term in order to serve one: that children should be children, no more and no less.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19218	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. Do the clubs wish to interrupt a session before the vote? – I cannot recognize such a desire. We now come to the vote on the resolution on the Committee's report 389 of the Supplements on "The Federal Government's initiatives at EU level to increase the low age of criminal offence in many countries outside Europe". I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. [[103/E]] [[20:21:46]] 15. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (349, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Constitutional and Residence Law, the Asylum Act 2005 and the BFA Procedure Act (382 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19272	We arrive at the 15th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The word now comes from Ing. Reinhold Einwallner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19302	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I'm going a little slower now, because I actually have the hope that the minister in charge will come to us. [[Federal Minister Nehammer enters the hall.]] - I see him already, wonderful. Welcome, Minister of the Interior! [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the current legislative amendment to the Constitutional and Residence Law is primarily about facilitating people who belong to the enlarged family of EU citizens. On the one hand, this group of persons should be more easily granted a residence permit on the one hand, but on the other hand also the possibility to pursue a self-employed activity and to obtain a residence permit under the title Red-White-Red-Card plus in this way after a very short period of time. We therefore see this very critically, because we do not believe – and I will carry it out later – that now is the right time to promote immigration. We also see very critically that the issue of the red and white red card no longer requires that you can prove a local accommodation. From our point of view, the absence of this condition poses the risk that immigrants will then live in precarious housing conditions, will really be pushed into a precarious housing market, or, in fact, even worse, the risk of mass quarters and mass accommodations. Especially in the light of a pandemic in which we still find ourselves, this is a critical condition. We know what kind of stove such mass accommodation and mass quarters can be and that clusters are created there. I think you have to be careful. This poses a risk that we should not take. However, as is so often the case with legislative texts and legislative drafts, it is true that there are also very positive aspects, and I would also like to mention them because I believe it should also be said what we think is useful and which points we agree with. On the one hand, we welcome the reduction in the time of the proceedings and also the possibility of applying for the red and white red card in the country. In the same way, we welcome the fact that there are the clarifications that are necessary in the course of Brexit for the citizens of Great Britain who need it. To sum up, however, it should be noted that there is absolutely light and shadow in relation to this government template, and if we have to weigh it, then we note that from our point of view, unfortunately, the disadvantages of this government template are clearly outweighed. We are in one of the biggest labour market crises and in the biggest labour market crisis in the Second Republic. At a time of highest unemployment, we cannot and do not want to support the fact that workers from third countries are still being brought into the country. Now it is first and foremost to take measures to make the domestic labour market fit, including the shortage of skilled workers in one area or another. Now it is necessary to intensify the re-training, training and qualification measures for the domestic unemployed, initiatives to train apprentices exactly in these infirmaries in which we have problems. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These steps must first be taken. For us now is not the right time to bring additional workers from third countries to Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! I would like to address another issue. It's a little sidestep, but I agree because the basic complex is also the subject of the next item on the agenda. It is about the police who are in the Frontex service who are making an important and very responsible job. My colleague Christian Drobits and I have been drawing attention to an abuse in this context – we have been there for some time – and I would like to formulate it here. Although it is in the area of the Minister for Finance, I am speaking here because we all know that we do not have the best Minister of Finance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] That is why I am also delegating this concern to you, Minister of the Interior, because it concerns your officials. It's about the day money paid by Frontex. In addition, there is a highest court ruling that these have been unjustly taxed, and the Austrian financial offices continue to practice a different practice in the taxation of these daily payments. It is not to be seen and not to be understood that a police officer or a police officer is being disadvantaged because he or she is making his or her remuneration tax compensation at another financial office, and it is also not understandable that there are police officers who have already made an accusation that the wage tax compensation has already been made and now - - – Mr Gerstl, you are the next one to it. [[Abg. Gerstl:... to the budget!]] [[Abg. Gerstl: Time has expired!]] I know, that's the typical game of the ÖVP: When it comes to the workers, when it comes to the police, when it comes to taxing justly, you bombard one with intermediate calls. That's typical! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is obviously the style of the new People's Party: When it comes to tax justice, you cry out loud – but not to those who are being treated unjustly. [[Abg. Gerstl: Typical bashing!]] I want justice! [[Abg. Gerstl: Pure Bashing!]] I want justice for the police, for all those who are wrongfully subject to the wage tax of these Frontex day-moneys. There is a need for a uniform system of reimbursement of all taxes, which have been unfairly deducted, and, Mr Minister, I believe that you as Minister of the Interior and even more finance minister Blümel are in duty. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19409	It is now possible to speak. Wolfgang Gerstl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19483	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! [[Abg. Lightenness: I mean, so far!]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ.]] First of all, I would like to say to you, Mr Leichtfried, that: There is a clear separation between asylum and labour migration. Asylum stands for people who are persecuted or who are afraid of being persecuted in their home country – whether because of race, religion, nationality or for social or political reasons. We help these people. This is our humanitarian, Christian-social attitude, Mr Leichfried. We help by creating sustainable solutions – through EU external protection and on-the-spot assistance. So we help in the long run and withdraw tugs from their business base. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And, of course, all refugees are given a fair asylum procedure, in accordance with the principle of the rule of law. Today, we decide that even after leaving the EU, Britain is a safe country of origin from which no escape to Austria is possible or necessary. With this decision today, we strengthen the voluntary return and reintegration of foreigners to their home country. There is another point about immigration, but it has nothing to do with asylum. For immigration, we strengthen the red-and-white red card by removing bureaucratic obstacles. Mr Einwallner, it is not about the absence of proof that one has a place of residence in Austria, but about the fact that these highly qualified key workers have to prove very well that they have a place of residence in Austria, but it is enough for them to do it here. It is always a question of skilled workers, who never go below the minimum wage amount of 2 000 euros in life, who never want to be in a mass quarter in life. Subject You're an error, Mr. Einwallner. Austria has a lack of so many specialists. There is an entire list of specialists who need Austria. This includes, for example, mechanical engineers, but also eye optics and patchers. Perhaps, Mr Einwallner, you will ask why you have not succeeded in bringing enough Austrians into such teaching or training. That was also in your responsibility for a very long time. Today, we sometimes have to get specialists from abroad because we want to secure jobs and, above all, economics and companies that also produce more jobs. Therefore: Let us help people on the ground, among other things, through a tenfold increase in the funds of the foreign disaster fund, and on the other hand, we promote immigration of qualified workers, only from those we need in Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19530	Next speaker: May. Hannes Amesbauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19551	Mr President. Minister of the Interior! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The draft legislation here contains some of the things that we also welcome, for example, what my colleague has to say. Gerstl said that the United Kingdom was a safe country of origin. No, of course we are also in favour of everything else being completely absurd. But there are also things and projects in it that do not find our approval – quite the contrary. For example, the acquisition of a residence permit in accordance with the local law and residence law is greatly facilitated and accelerated, thus simplifying. We do not see the absence of proof of a local accommodation as a condition when applying for a red and white red card at all. They have now distinguished between asylum and labour migration. I am glad that finally the government has also arrived that there is a massive difference. Of course, we, too, are in favour of our being able to choose who comes to us to be able to control this, key workers, but I believe – and here I am with colleagues from Einwallner, whom I agree with – that it is precisely in times like those in which many people are in short work, in which we have to deal with record unemployment, which is completely wrong approach to create any relief for an additional move to Austria. That is the completely wrong signal in the present situation, ladies and gentlemen! So we are determined to support any simplifications that make the residence permit in Austria easier and faster. Ladies and gentlemen! Apart from the fact that pressure on the labour market will continue to increase, if we now facilitate the move to Austria, we should consider the question as to the shortage of skilled workers, which appears to be still in certain areas in times of record unemployment, and consider whether we are still learning beyond the needs of the labour market. In our view, that would be the right approach. In short, Minister of the Interior – and this is also a clear message to you: Finally, ensure effective border protection, at last ensure a consistent deportation of offenders and asylum fraud and do not resort to the need to simplify and speed up obtaining a residence permit for strangers! This is absurd and especially in a crisis situation in which there are thousands of people in Austria, where hundreds of thousands of people in Austria are unemployed, in short work, do not know how to finance their lives, the completely false signal. Now it must be louder than ever: Austria first!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19593	Mag. Agnes Sirkka Prammer. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19618	Mr President. Minister of the Interior! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! Today, we adopt amendments to the Asylum Act and to the Settlement and Residence Act. A very important change concerns clarification in the Asylum Act, which was necessary to amend a provision which was considered unconstitutional. In principle, family members can share the azylical status of a close relative, and so far the unconstitutional situation was that legal representatives of minors could take over this status, but that this was not possible. This is now being rehabilitated; it is a formal act that is necessary. There is also a change to the BFA Procedure Act. This will ensure that early voluntary return and reintegration is possible. Important for the This intention will succeed in ensuring that the implementation of this mandatory return advice is not just a formal date when one is asked: Do you want to return voluntarily? No, no, no, If you don't, you'll be pushed off! – Instead, people need to be reminded of such institutions, such as the Caritas return aid. This is an institution that actually provides help and support to people, not only on departure, but above all on arrival and on the first steps into a new life in the country of origin. That makes sense, and it is important that this be done. Conversely, it is necessary for the consultant to be aware that people who say that they do not want to return voluntarily, usually do not want this even after a second, third, fourth or fifth appointment. They usually have their reasons for this, and it is important to respect it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If one does not do so, it harms all those involved – the rejected, the consultant and the responsible. If not qualitative and supportive advice is offered, but dates are simply arranged together, this does not correspond to the intention of the law, does not help anyone, causes unnecessary procedural effort and costs and frustration and suffering among the affected.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19663	Mag. Felix Eypeltauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19687	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! We very much welcome the fact that the inescapable condition of proof of accommodation in Austria for the red and white red card is finally falling. We've been saying for a long time: For many professionals who want to come to us from abroad, but also for many businesses, for industry, for research institutions, this is simply impossible, so stones are set in motion by bureaucracy. It is also completely alien, because if you want to rent an apartment in Austria, the landlord usually wants to know whether you have a residence permit and a job here. But if you wanted a residence permit, you still need an apartment for the red and white red card. That's where the cat bit into the tail, and it's good that it finally has an end. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But why do many of these welcome improvements, which are happening here today, require a breach procedure? – You can read this in the first sentence of the explanatory notes in the paper we are discussing here. Yes, the red-and-white red card, your estimated government, has now improved on its own initiative – but do you not believe that we should make every effort to ensure that the best minds from all over the world come to us? Don't you think it's relevant for these best minds from all over the world, for these professionals, to know how bureaucratic or unbureaucratic they can, for example, bring their companions to Austria? We need much more than what is happening here again in the little little town today, because the right of residence, Mr Minister, is herb and beet! There is no clear migration strategy, there are too many different laws and there is too much bureaucracy. All of this inhibits the economy, all of which inhibits our businesses. It hurts our industry and our knowledge location because all these stakeholders are trying to get the best minds on a global market to pick them up. We must not put stones in their way. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] So what do we need? – Let’s just do it: If an Upper Austrian employer and an Israeli programmer find themselves, this programmer must walk on the red-white-red carpet from Tel Aviv to Linz. This must be as simple, as unbureaucratic and as liquid as possible. This would really be a vision for migration policy in Austria! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] You, ladies and gentlemen, respectively, Chancellor and head of state Stelzer now want to set up a technical university for digitization in Upper Austria. Yesterday, the German chancellor, the Minister of Science, the head of state, and the university director Meinhard Lukas, whom I very much appreciate, held a press conference in some parts. So many calendar statements, so much consulting talk, you don't listen to a third-class motivational seminar for distributors – just one year before the country election, as was the case at the Faculty of Medicine in Linz at that time. You don't even know what it costs, what's planned! There were multiple questions from journalists whether there is a rough framework, about anything – no answer! Counsellor's address, word aid! I can try to give you a little help and thus give people out there an idea of what we're talking about: ETH Zurich, which is certainly such an international lighthouse as this one is to be in Upper Austria, has an annual budget of 1.7 billion euros. The Karlsruhe Institute of Technology has an annual budget of 9 billion euros, and even our TU in Vienna needs about 300 million euros a year. For this university, which we do not even know what it costs and what exactly it is supposed to do – but definitely it comes, and we got it out in time before the country election – we need the best minds, so much is fixed. The aim is to get international graduates to do their doctorates, to research, to do basic research and to strengthen the location. Yes, you know, if you present such an idea, which is based on the fact that international top people come to us, then start and create a uniform, clear, transparent and understandable right of migration, so that the people who need our economy and who need science will be happy to come to Austria too! This would definitely strengthen the location and so you can start right away, because that doesn't cost a cent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19764	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Before we enter the voting process, I ask the clubs if there is any need for interruption. – That is obviously not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 349 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft, to a sign on this point. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[20:44:07]] 16. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (360 e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act establishing the Federal Act on the Labelling of Firearms and Essential Components of Firearms (SchKG) and amending the EU Police Operations Act (383 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19821	We arrive at the 16th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mag. Hannes Amesbauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19848	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Dear ladies and gentlemen! The planned amendment of the Weapons Identification Act, which is due to the famous EU Firearms Directive, which we have already had to do with the novel of the Weapons Act during the last legislative period, is essentially about the labelling of firearms and components of firearms. That sounds harmless now, but it must already be said that the first ministerial draft, which would have planned massive interventions up to devaluations for legal weapons owners, was a disaster. I have to help you, Minister of the Interior, and your place of business, that you have taken very much account of and worked out the numerous opinions in the review process. That's good. It certainly also has to do with the fear that many shooter associations, arms collectors, owners of historical weapons – legitimate fear – that their property will be devalued. It should be noted, therefore, that the assessments have really been taken into account – this is not always the case with drafts. However, I would like to say briefly why we, as the Freedom Party, will not yet give our approval to this bill. As I have mentioned earlier, the draft goes back to the EU Firearms Directive. But what did the EU want to do with this Firearms Directive in principle? – She wanted to fight terrorism. That was always the pretext. That was also the pretext in the Weapons Act, and we can be glad that the Weapons Act was introduced at a time when we were in the government and put the Interior Minister. In this way, we have been able to exaggerate the worst horrors that the EU has foreshadowed – to stick to this term that fits the Waffen Law. Ladies and gentlemen! All thought, the whole intention of the EU was wrong from the outset and condemned to failure. The starting point was the terrorist attacks in Paris at the time, but: a law, guidelines and amendments, the intensification of regulations and legal requirements for legal weapons owners – and this is about people who usually have a psychological opinion that has completed training for a gun driver's license, where they have learned how to deal with firearms that must safely keep the weapons and which are also regularly controlled by the police, whether their reliability is still given – and these people are pushing, please the completely wrong approach. All these attacks – Paris was only one of many – which were usually committed by Islamists, were all committed with fully automatic weapons, mostly with Kalashnikovs, who were still in large quantities due to the Balkan wars is available at a kilo price. However, a legal weapon owner who is aware of his responsibility to own a weapon does not commit terrorist attacks, even with historical weapons in which the magazine is very small – if there is a magazine at all – and the caliber also has a size and effectiveness that would make it completely pointless because it would not work at all. Ladies and gentlemen, my message is that my appeal is – and this is also addressed to the Minister for the Interior and to the ÖVP; especially in recent years, the ÖVP has not proved to be a particularly great friend of the legal weapon owner, although it always mentions it in hunting tribal and similar: Fight You're the illegal trade in weapons, you fight the illegal weapons that are being brought into the country by mass! This is important, you have our full support. But leave the legal weapons owners alone! These are ordinary, just citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19897	Mr Hermann Gahr has now been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19921	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We are talking about a legislative amendment to the firearms marking requirement. Thank you for the presentation, Mr Federal Minister, we are implementing an EU directive. Mr Amesbauer has said positively that the opinions have been incorporated and that concerns have been overcome, and I think that sounds a little more positive than the committee has. What exactly is this government template about? – Essential components of firearms and ammunition will be clearly and comprehensively marked in the future. It is about facilitating the traceability of firearms and combating the misuse of firearms for criminal purposes. Overall, this is, of course, a clear announcement and a challenge to safety. In principle this law serves to understand the acquisition and misuse of weapons, in particular the identification of the ammunition should help the authorities quickly to find the owner of the weapon. The obligation to be legible, durable and clear is intended to ensure the perceptibility of the firearms up to their manufacturer or importer. I have already said that we are still implementing a 2017 EU Weapons Directive in a timely manner. The stated objective is to combat arms abuse. However, it is of course also stated the objective of establishing uniform standards at European level. The law will enter into force at the beginning of 2021. Firearms, which took place before the 14th century. In September 2018, the ownership of final consumers was excluded. The transitional arrangements are in place to keep the ownership interventions as low as possible. Exceptions – that has already been said by Mr Amesbauer – are available for historical firearms as well as compressed air and CO2 weapons up to calibre 6 millimeters. Exceptions shall also apply to the acquisition by armed forces, police or authorities. In summary, you can say: The Federal Government is thereby implementing an important law on combating terrorism and crime. The concerns of arms collectors could be removed, so nothing stands in the way of law enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19966	I call Mr Dietmar Keck. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19991	Mr President. Federal Minister! We are dealing with two draft laws under this item on the agenda. One law has already been discussed and explained in detail by my previous speakers, which is the essential part of firearms. The second is the EU Police Operations Act, which is also discussed in this agenda item. For me, it is incomprehensible why the Firearms Identification Act and the EU Police Operation Act are summarized in a agenda item, one could have separated it. What does the EU Police Operations Act say? – The human resources of the Frontex, i.e. the border and Coast Guard of the EU, result in the adaptation of the EU Police Operations Act. The legal addition is intended to allow so-called Staff Regulations, i.e. personnel directly employed by Frontex, to be entrusted with tasks also in the Austrian federal territory. This also applies to all other countries. That is, it is a statement from the EU that Frontex staff can also be used in any EU country. Of course, we agree. Now to the gun identification law: It has already been said that this concerns parts of the firearms such as the running, the drum, the closure to be marked. We agree. But what I don't understand – I have already said that in committee, and I just didn't understand the answer I got there – is that firearms that were shot before the 14th. It was owned by end-users in September 2018, except for them. That is, if one does not identify these weapons, as it has previously said, it can be used for terrorist purposes, because the run, the drum and so on have no marking. ==References== In September 2018, when the weapons are disassembled, they must be marked. In my opinion, this date, which has been set, is incomprehensible as to the fact that this deadline has been adopted. I don't understand, Minister. I'd be glad if I had a really good answer to that. In advance, I would like to say one more thing – I have mentioned it more often – and I would also like to say here: In the summer of this year, the federal trainers of the police service dogs took the test as an animal protection-qualified dog trainer – that is the highest test you can ever take, and that is only available in Austria with a state test – and you should now pass the certificates because that, I think, is something that is really excellent. There are not many and in the executive area only these ten. I would ask that we finally make an appointment so that you can also hand over the certificates to these ten trainers because they deserve it. I think this is really an excellent exam and it really lifts the image of police dog leaders very, very high.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20028	Mrs Mag.a Eva Blimlinger is now speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20052	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! I'm actually quite far away from gunshots, at all. Weapons in general – at most on the Kirtag or in the Prater, when it comes to shooting roses. However, since Mr Bürstmayr is ill and I have been concerned above all with the obligation to label historical weapons in this law, it has come to me to talk about it. That is to say, I will, above all, limit myself to this area of historical weapons. As Mr Amesbauer has said – and for what he has also asked the Minister of the Interior for Parliament – I do not think he quite sees the sense of what a requirement to label historical weapons is needed. I see him very well, because of course it is also very necessary to know who they belong to and where they are. In the case of these weapons, the County Headquarters will then, together with the Bundesdenkmalamt, determine whether this is a historic weapon. The fear of the FPÖ – you can see that it is not about security – is that it is an intervention in property law, including those who collect historical weapons. I can't see that. On the contrary: If the BDA classifies a weapon as historical, it will still rise for the collector, the collector in value. The fear that it loses value when a number is on it is, of course, white nonsense. That's not the point at all. It's about weapons, after the first. ==References====External links== ==References== January 1900 was elected because it concerns the technical questions to say that there is a fence – quite the opposite. In this sense, we will, of course, take this into account. The only one who opposes this security issue is the FPÖ, which is more and more about property than about security. At the end, as always, and here we speak of firearms: I am in favour of renaming the Klagenfurt Windisch-Kaserne to Richard-Wadani-Kaserne. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20095	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Before we enter the voting process, I ask again whether an interruption is desirable. - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 360 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to a sign on this issue. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[20:57:25]] 17. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 365/A(E) by Mr Douglas Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff, colleagues on the development of a strategy on the subject and risks of Deepfakes (384d.b.) 18. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 369/A(E) by Mr Douglas Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff, ladies and gentlemen, on measures to ensure the production of cyberdeficiency (385d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20168	We come to points 17 and 18 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. Again, there was no oral reporting. Maximilian Köllner is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20195	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On the initiative of Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff, we discussed the subject of Deepfakes. I would like to take this up because, Minister, did you actually know that you yourself are in a deep-fake video? I brought a picture of it. It seems funny at first sight [[holding a panel with an image of Peter Alexander in the direction of Federal Minister Nehammer and then placing it on the speaker's desk]] This is Peter Alexander in the "ZDF-Hitparade" 1982. That's the deep fact that you're supposed to represent as Peter Alexander. [[a table similar to the first, only with the difference that the face of Federal Minister Nehammer is to be seen instead of that of Peter Alexander, holding towards Federal Minister Nehammer and then placing it on the speaker's desk]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I don't know if You can smile about it yourself, but you certainly know that there are not only satire in deep-fake videos or photos. Deepfakes do look deceptive, like deceptive real media content, but they are simply not, because they are fakes. The creation is not a great art. In the network there are now numerous programs that allow even technically less decorated users to exchange faces in deceptive really looking videos with other faces. This also allows Fakenews to be spread rapidly and easily in social channels. That's exactly where the danger lies. The victims are not only people who are public, but also businesses and private individuals. There are cases in which faces of young women have been cut into pornographic photographs, or of politicians who can be seen in speeches that they have never held. Conversely, however, it may also be that reality is being questioned. Donald Trump once apologised for an apostatized statement about women, but later questioned the authenticity of the recording. The fact is that such counterfeiting can not only lead to vocational damage or extortion, they even have the potential to weaken democratic processes. There are already countries that have adopted this delicate theme, but Austria is still a little sluggish about it. Mr Minister, you are called upon to develop measures to actively counter the negative effects of deep-fake productions and thus to ensure safety – at the end of the day – of the Austrians. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Koza.]] Assuming security: As ministers present, I ask you to address this once again within the government, even if it does not fall directly within your competence, but it has been too short for me in today's debate on tourism, and it is also about a secure future, because in addition to hotels and gastronomy, the travel industry does not know how to survive. I only spoke personally to representatives of the travel industry yesterday, who cannot plan because there are no European directives. Measures will be taken, then loosened, so that people book holidays again, then there are travel warnings and restrictions again, and the holidays will be cancelled again. This sector is already heavily affected by the crisis, tour operators and travel agencies have to go in advance each time and pay back commissions to the customer in case of cancellations. At some point, however, money reserves are consumed, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, if we are already talking about security, let us restore confidence, courage and security to this industry too! The companies are fighting for every job, and I think we should all do so together. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why I would like to ask you once again, Mr Minister: Please talk to your colleague, Minister Köstinger, give the real experts from the practice hearing and support them to the best of their knowledge and conscience! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20268	Mrs Eva-Maria Himmelbauer. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20289	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On this item on the agenda, we are dealing with two motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff and I am allowed to begin with the second on cybersecurity in connection with the attack on the Austrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the beginning of the year. In this context, I can justify our rejection, which is due to the fact that the requests contained in the motion for a resolution are already obsolete: On the one hand, it starts with the exchange of information. I believe that our Foreign Minister Schallenberg has been ready throughout the process, together with the Ministry of the Interior, to provide information on what was concerned, not only here in the plenary, where this has been the subject, but also in the committee responsible, because of the sensitivity of the information that has been handled. However, it has not only provided information on the information relating to the attack, but also on the strategies pursued by the Ministry and, above all, developed in cooperation with other organisations, of course, also on the prevention measures taken in the ministry and which are carried out in other ministries and, above all, in public institutions. An open point, for which, of course, the application will also take place, is the personnel equipment. However, I also believe that the competent ministries – the BMI, but also the Federal Ministry of Defence and the Federal Chancellery – have a strong will to strengthen these areas. Our Minister of Finance has reaffirmed this once again today by presenting the budget figures and by stating separately that cybersecurity and the increase in human resources are very important issues. However, if we look back at the debates beforehand, the shortage of skilled workers in this field is of course a major issue, and this unfortunately reflects God's also in our ministries in the IT departments and there in the IT security experts. On the final point of the request relating to safety standards, I believe that the IT responsible in the Ministries and Public Institutions can be undisputedly declare that they are pursuing the highest safety standards, especially due to sensitive infrastructure. Accordingly, this is also a point that is repeatedly highlighted. Mr Köllner has already mentioned a lot about the request concerning Deepfakes, which is reflected in this request. As already mentioned in the Committee, I am allowed to forward the approval of our group. It has rightly been mentioned that Deepfakes can have very strong consequences in different areas: politically, of course, because if a politician has a declaration of war against another country, then the impact on the geopolitical situation may be; or an entrepreneur who is being put into the mouth to influence the stock markets; or, as mentioned – revenge pornes are unfortunately not rare to God – if, so to speak, the face, the body, the voice of the exfreundin are integrated into such pornographic material, then one must and should take action against it. The technology behind it is in itself not bad, but the use of it. In this respect, we can also, of course, approach the request for action to be taken and, in the future, to take action together with scientists, researchers and safety experts. This, of course, concerns the punishments, but there are many things in our criminal code. I believe that a very important point is media education, digital education. It is important to be critical when it comes to content on the Internet, dealing with sources, researching sources, and questioning. I think if we stick to it, we'll be on the safe side.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20344	Mr Christian Ries. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20369	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the field of criminal statistics, it has already been observed in recent years that property crime has increasingly developed from the on-site approach to the virtual crime scene. The reasons for this are relatively simple: little financial effort in the preparation, entering fresh action is rather unlikely, one does not put any rooftyloscopic or serological traces, one has a worldwide radius of action, higher prey, in short: low risk. Although criminal statistics have declined in the Corona crisis, as far as cybercrime is concerned, it is still gaining in importance. This trend will not reverse, not with or without Corona. This industry will be booming. Unfortunately, the rapid technicalization of the groups of perpetrators still has little to do with law enforcement. Over ten years ago, it was Minister Fekter, who had influenced the concept of cybercops for the police. Hundreds of planning sites were in view at that time, but that was more theater donner than reality. There are currently just 60 planning sites in the BKA. This number should be doubled, that is good, but it must be done quickly, Minister! But not only the BKA requires specialists, but also in the BAT, because the British MI5 and the German Constitutional Protection have found the gaps in the obsolete system of the BAT really merciless. The BAT study committee has Also revealed that dealing with confidential and secret data was rather careless there, which the then management knew, but she was engaged in rank struggles. Now it is you, Minister of State, who must act. Take money in your hand and please do it quickly! At this point a week ago, the ÖVP security spokesman drummed out with a grueling smile – I almost want to say – that the police horses of Herbert Kicklent were removed. This has not only happened, however, Mr. Colleague, but also other high animals in the ministry must have done so if the color landscape changes. If you've already saved money, we'll put it in good staff quickly, in professional staff! Since I do not mean any of the ÖVP club, that has not proved to be the case in the BMI, we know that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Put it in hardware and software we need to fight cybercrime. If we don't clap around, we'll knock, because the crime doesn't wait for us!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20426	I call Mr Süleyman Zorba. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20450	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! The present request concerning Deepfakes deals with a matter that safety experts have long been preparing considerable headaches. With the further development of technological possibilities, it will always be easier to create deceptive real Deepfakes. Thus, it is possible to charge people with statements and actions that they have not actually done. These are mostly video files that are manipulated or generated using artificial intelligence. By the apparent authenticity of these videos, for example, for the public sector, this means that it is possible to charge famous and well-known personalities in a very simple way with actions that do not correspond to reality. Of course, it can also be satarian content, which is very funny, as we have seen before. But there is also the possibility that this will go in a problematic direction. Deepfakes can infringe personality rights and lead to accusations, interferences and conflicts that develop a social dimension and dynamics in the political environment that can be dangerous. Especially at a time when fakenews are increasingly targeted to influence democratic will-building, we have to worry about the increasing spread of deep-fakes. But even for individuals, the danger that Deepfakes poses for their own personal rights is not to be underestimated. It doesn't matter if it's cybermobbing or revenge. Increasingly, there is a risk that women will be threatened or extorted by the publication of manipulated pornographic video recordings, because there is no need for a highly complex technique for the production of Deepfakes. A very normal PC, which most of us have at home, as well as 15 to 20 images of a person are already enough to generate deceptively real videos. Just a few years ago, it would have meant a huge effort to manipulate and falsify videos in this quality. Today, these technical possibilities are available free of charge to a general public. This also leads to the fact that, according to Deeptrace, most of the Deepfakes published now fall into the category of pornographic content. In order to stop this anti-feminine trend, a strategy is needed by the Federal Government in dealing with Deepfakes. In order to respond to these threats, we have already agreed in the government programme on issues relating to the fight against cybercrime. Although our right now offers opportunities to oppose the publication and dissemination of deep-fakes to the Wehr – for example in criminal law – this kind of technology undoubtedly represents a new and comprehensive kind of threat. AI developments will lead to ever better results with less and less effort. This is a development that makes it necessary to face up to the whole with a comprehensive strategy. For these reasons, I would like to thank Mr Hoyos for taking up this important issue with his motion for a resolution. This motion for a resolution will be approved. So let us go about it and work towards developing the Deepfakes strategy required in the request, in order to protect our democratic institutions, in order to strengthen personal rights and to introduce anti-feminine practices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20496	Next speaker: Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20517	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Before I go into the deep-fake proposal, I would like to lose a word on cyberdefence because it has also been mentioned by the ÖVP why this request is not supported. I cannot really understand this because I believe that this is one of the challenges for the future that we have in the security field. I also believe, as my previous speaker has mentioned, that 20 million euros, which are included in the new budget and are invested, are not enough to really prepare for us structurally well, because money alone does not give the tone in this area. There is much more to this, and that is exactly what we could have done with this proposal. Unfortunately, he is not accepted today. As a result, I am all the more pleased that our Deepfake request has been accepted. This is a subject that is, of course, always in the media and that is a very big topic in the current age. The topic of AI – also in the government programme is dedicated to this, I believe, a sub-chapter – is such a fashion theme on which the company always jumps and says: Yes, we need to invest more in AI! We must invest in AI, in research around AI! These are all topics that are present all the time, but you also have to look at the dangers associated with these things. These are not the evil robots that are then badly programmed or similar, but these are mostly technical shortcomings made by human hands. Self-learning technologies nevertheless come from humans. For example, a study by ETH Zurich was published a few months ago. This was about facial scanners, about how facial scanners act, and because, for example, there is very often the problem that people with darker skin color are better recognized. Then you looked at why: This is because in programming, to be precise in the neural networks that lie behind it, certain issues are simply treated worse and this has brought about these changes; that is why this was applicable there. Accordingly, AI can also lead to discrimination which is not at all wanted. If we look at the subject of Deepfakes in detail, we can of course see how far such a thing can lead. You have been addressed in relation to a deep case by you, Mr. Federal Minister: That's something that happens every day and doesn't require a special software that you have to buy for a lot of money. Most applications like Snapchat or Instagram have filters that do exactly that; there are Faceswap, a classic filter that many of you, from the viewers at home may have already applied. This is precisely the preliminary stages of artificial intelligence, which are then used for deep-fakes; precisely such changes can take place. This poses a huge danger if we look at what can happen if the politician is concerned if it concerns an important head of government who, for example, would call a war. But this also concerns a large number of people in their private environment: Suddenly, there are pornographic representations in which one is included, or other things that one can depend on in the job, in the profession or wherever. This is not a cavalier crime and, I believe, one has to look at it carefully and see how we as the Republic, as legislators, accept this issue. That is why I am very pleased that we are taking a first step together today in order to really address this issue and to debate it here in the Austrian Parliament for the first time, because it will also make a massive change in our society in the long term. What is more, I think, important is to see what we can now take out of this request. This request is a first supplement, but of course it raises the question: What are the consequences you will develop in the ministry? I think there are many examples to which we can develop, where we also expect steps to be taken. This concerns on the one hand the topic of research, especially AI research – something very important – but also security research in combination with artificial intelligence. This is something that has so far been far far far far far too little in Europe and in which I also believe that Austria can take on a pioneering role. The issue of education, of course, is a very big one, which must always be mentioned in connection with artificial intelligence, because we also know: If young people are prepared for it and know what such technologies mean and what the consequences of these technologies are, they can also better deal with such technologies. In addition, I also believe that it would be the task of the Federal Government to take steps now to go into wider information campaigns to inform more widely about these phenomena, so that not only on any small portals or on-line media is discussion about where so-called nerds are talking about it, but thus a real public discourse on the changes that go with it is possible. The question of how we deal with such issues in criminal law is also one which, I believe, is to be discussed in the ministries and on which this request is also a first supplement. As I said earlier, it must not, of course, be a cavalier offence if you bring people into other situations, teach them other texts, give them other mimics and gestures. All of this has an impact on private life, and I do not think that should be a cavalier's offence. Accordingly, I am very glad that we are taking these further steps together today. I am very pleased with the measures you have taken. Minister and I hope that your colleagues will also be set up. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20586	Mr Andreas Minnich came to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20611	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Appreciate spectators at home! I am very grateful for Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff's request. The cyber attack on our Ministry of Foreign Affairs was not a small one, but a very professionally guided attack. It is about critical infrastructure, data security, espionage and the sovereignty of our state of Austria. Especially terrifying is the fact that such an attack often goes unnoticed for a long time. For years, reports of countless incidents worldwide have increased, from attacks on hospitals to attacks on various vital public institutions. In our government programme, the area of cyberdefence is shown several times. There is a clear commitment to the further development of the Austrian security authorities to meet these future challenges. Our Security Ministers, in particular our Minister of the Interior, are strongly pushing forward this area. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The opposition has our fullest appreciation, but all points have been dealt with in the request. First: The cyberattack to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was successfully averted. Secondly, All the vulnerabilities have been closed. Thirdly, Of course, law enforcement has also been initiated. Fourth: No other department reported further attacks. Fifth, you open a bottle Measures have already been taken to implement the NISG, Network and Information System Security Act, in particular for a robust cybersecurity architecture. That request should therefore be rejected. Last but not least, a very great thank you all involved officials and forces of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of State Defense, who have contributed and helped to ward off this cyberattack. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20654	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Is a session interrupted? – That is not the case either. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall vote on item 17 of the resolution attached to the Committee's report 384 of the Supplements on "Development of a Deepfake Strategy and Risks". I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[104/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on item 18 on the agenda, request from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 385 of the additions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[21:23:22]] 19. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 577/A(E) by Mr Petra Bayr, Mr MA MLS, Mr MLS, on the conclusion of the discriminatory decision against inter-sex people (386b)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20729	Now we come to the 19th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Sabine Schatz. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20760	Mr President. Federal Minister! Yes, it is something like the Neverending Story: the discrimination of inter- and trans-persons in Austria. What are we talking about? – Many people live a gender identity that cannot be classified in the classic man-woman scheme. They live their own gender identity. In Austria, inter- and trans-persons are also under daily exposure to animosities and discrimination. The survey of the European Fundamental Rights Agency this year revealed that 24 percent of people in Austria are avoiding fear of hatred and violence in order to make their living sex recognizable. More than half were subject to private discrimination and a third discrimination at work last year. We also need urgent action when it comes to finally removing all discrimination affecting this group. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Shetty.]] In 2018, the Constitutional Court decided in its recognition that people have a right to adequate designation in the register. In particular, the independent identity of inter-sex persons should be recognised, they must be protected from certain sex allocations. 2018 – we remember – Kickl was Minister of the Interior of the Black and Blue Federal Government, and he was responsible for a decree that allowed the third gender entry only if this was decided medically on so-called medical boards. This contradicts all demands for accessible access to the third sex, and this has been rightly criticized. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] Kickl is now an interior minister's story, his police horses are also. It is only since September 2020 that the third generation is passed. After more than two years, the Minister of the Interior – who is not here right now – has issued a new decree and replaced the discriminatory Kickl decree. Yes, we recognize that there is partial success, but there is still no right to a self-determined gender entry. The decree continues to be pathological. Lived gender identity can not continue to be the basis for the third gender entry and thus continues to exclude trans-persons. But this is the Community's great demand, and we are fighting side by side with the Community until this discrimination is finally eliminated. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20809	Magnificence comes to the fore. Johanna Jachs. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20838	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! The SPÖ's request was submitted in May and yes, at that time he dealt with a subject that is really important. There have been problems with the adoption of the Ministry of the Interior, which concerns the entry of the third sex into the central register of persons. In the meantime, however, we have October, and in these few months our Minister of the Interior has acted and reality has overtaken the parliamentary procedure. So I don't understand why my colleague, Treasure, is talking about a Neverending Story, because from May to now, it's about four months. [[Abg. Kucharovich: Because it is not fulfilled! ...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] So the Minister of the Interior has issued a decree, and he really meets all the demands, because there are now six registration options, and with these six possibilities we are actually in the top international field, that is a novum. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Matznetter]] So if you cannot or do not want to declare yourself as female or male, you can now register as diverse, inter, open or delete the gender entry. We are concerned that the way to the office alone is not discrimination. The fact that this is not just the case in the offices is a concern for us, because it needs a social rethinking. Indeed, I am firmly convinced that there should be no discrimination on the grounds of sex, and in 2020 it is really the highest time for that. I would also like to use my speaking time briefly to address a topic of my heart. On Sunday it was not only a happy day for the Vienna People's Party, but also the International Girl's Day. The aim of this day is to draw attention to the situation of girls and women in all the countries of the world who have to deal with difficult conditions. Forcibly, but also the promotion of women and girls through education are important concerns. There is also a focus on the consistent implementation of anti-discrimination laws – as we do today. Another requirement is also: No tolerance for violence against women and girls! On this point, our ministers, Mr Bogner-Strauss, Mr Edtstadler and Mr Raab, have already set up many initiatives, so we do not leave behind any woman who is facing such problems. Recently, there was also a thought experiment of a German influencer, some of you will probably have seen it. Isabell Gerstenberger asked her about 40,000 followers what if there were no men for a day or no women for a day. The men answered: Well, if there were no women for a day, there wouldn't be much change, they would do the same as ever. The women, on the other hand, have replied that they would go to the gym and be able to train there unobserved or quietly, walk through the city during the night or jogging in peace. Ladies and gentlemen, this must lead us to see that we really need to work on the subjective security of women in our country. The last point before I finish: With our work, ladies and gentlemen, we contribute to creating the legal framework for equal treatment. I think it is time for us to move ahead with social rethinking, because only when we tear down the barriers in the minds of society can we also succeed in eliminating the financial differences in income between the sexes. I believe that in 2020, to get back to the beginning of my speech, it is really high time to do this, no matter what gender you belong to.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20887	Next speaker: Mr Yannick Shetty. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20911	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the Members have already mentioned it, it is about this atrocious kickl decree, which is thanks to God now is history. This is an important partial success and a step in the right direction in the sense of equality and recognition of intergender persons. But maybe a little more basic: Let's be honest! It is embarrassing that in 2020 we still have to stand here and fight for every small part of the fundamental rights of sexual minorities – even more so, since in this case it is only an adequate name in the register of status, which the VfGH has already decided on. It's embarrassing. It is even more embarrassing, however, that the Minister of the Interior of the last government, the turquoise-blue government, has, in an illegal way, just overturned the implementation of this VfGH knowledge with a humane decree. The most embarrassing thing, however, is that the current Minister of the Interior, in a turquoise-green federal government, has maintained this unscrupulous decree for months and has continued to discriminate against intergenderly people completely unnecessaryly. It needed our pressure. It has needed the pressure of civil society, for example by lawyer Dr. Graupner, who has indicated to Mr. Interior Minister at the corruption prosecutor's office because of suspicion of official abuse. That's what it took to get a little swing into this thing and take the release back. Of course, it has needed the persistent work of NGOs such as the Hosi or the Vimö. Our pressure has worked, and the discriminatory decree is at least largely history. But this is just a first step towards equal rights for intergender people. Inter-sex people – my colleague, treasure, has already said so – are still subject to massive discrimination, but not only to them, but also to the figures of the study mentioned above, show that, although there is a great deal of legal progress in 2020, there is still a great need for social recovery. The largest study ever carried out on the situation of LGBT people, namely those of the EU Fundamental Rights Agency, shows: Over the last 12 months, 40 percent of those surveyed in Austria have experienced discrimination at least once in the world of work. 33 percent claim to have been harassed within the last year. And 11 percent – imagine that once! –, that is, every tenth person has been exposed to physical assault in the last five years. 60 percent of the lesbian and gay couples surveyed indicate that they never hold hands in the public for fear of assaults. I think these figures show that there is still a lot to be done in society both in the fight for the equality of intergenderly and in all other areas. We will continue to put pressure on the government parties and this pressure will be necessary. It will be necessary because the Greens are not capable of being implemented without pressure from the opposition and because the coalition partner, the ÖVP, has now become a legal party on social issues. We have heard from colleagues of the ÖVP over the last few weeks in the election campaign in Vienna again and again that the NEOS are so far to the left. Ladies and gentlemen, above all from the ÖVP! That is always a question of perspective. In all clearness: If you turn right outside, you'll find almost everything else on the left. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] An example of this is your current list for the Wiener Landtagswahl. In the preferred votes ended in second place behind Gernot Blümel, in other words in front of the city council and in front of the active club woman, a candidate of the fundamental clerical wing. For example, he rejects the right to abortion and calls LGBT-free zones in Poland Fakenevs. It is not left-wing for fundamental and human rights; it is fundamentally liberal and, above all, a matter of course, a political centre to stand up for it. We've been fighting the third-generation entry out of the opposition. We have – and I am particularly pleased – fought the end of the blood donation ban for gay and bisexual men. We will continue to do so and take the final legal ban on conversion and re-pollution therapies to minors as the next topic. We will do this as a reliable partner for all those who unfortunately have none in this Federal Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20969	Mrs Dr. Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20993	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. So the row after: In fact, there are still people who, despite medical facts, believe that there are only males and females. The Constitutional Court of Justice has put an end to this mistaken belief in 2018. On the basis of an inter-sex action by Alex Jürgen, the Constitutional Court has once and for all held that the gender identity of inter-sex people must be legalised, even if it is not female or male. Unfortunately – and only for this reason, we are still discussing this issue today – the then FPÖ Minister of the Interior Herbert Kickldiee’s decision of the Constitutional Court was implemented catastrophicly and not in accordance with the contents of this decision. Over 60 civil society organisations, SPÖ, NEOS, Greens, many others fought this Kickl decree for months and years, and finally there are results. What are these results? – Let me take three points! First: The term third option is history in Austria since September, because in Austria, thanks to our persistent joint work, there are not three, but six possibilities for gender entry, namely: diverse, male, female, inter, open – and even the removal of the gender entry is possible from now on. Six options for gender entry including possible deletion: This is internationally unique and yes, that's a damn big step in the right direction. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Secondly, There is no need to seek new advice. [[Abg. Singer: What is that...?]] After the Kickl decree, intergender people had to present new opinions confirming their variation of sexual characteristics. We have given a clear rejection to this displeasure. The new decree also recognises existing documents as a prerequisite for a gender entry – and that is a good thing. Thirdly, There will no longer be any studies by a so-called variant of the gender development board as a condition for gender entry. We have also abandoned this shock by the former Minister of the Interior – and that is very crucial. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Obligational investigations of people who have experienced unsolicited medical interventions up to genital mutilation pose a great danger of retraumatizations in the affected. That will certainly not exist with us Greens. And yes, it is true, it is not all perfect for this new decree, but only these three points, ladies and gentlemen, are decisive improvements in the sense of the people concerned. Let me just say something about Parliamentary work here in the House! Mr Bayr's request is a good example of the fact that applications do not disappear in the drawer or in the Nirwana or experience a funeral of first class, as we always hear from the opposition – on the contrary! – In addition to the fact that you might have to read and look at the government programme before making applications, what has already been agreed there, because then you can assume that we are working on it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kucharovich.]] Yannick, another word in your direction: Don't be so important. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Bravo! Very good!]] The Ministry of Health and Health is responsible for the prohibition of blood donation, and there is our agreement to combat this ban. [[Abg. Loacker: So if a person takes care of it, that's what you are!]] With regard to LGBT-free zones in Poland, there was a request from the two government parties that had a majority. The same with regard to Kickl's decree: It's not just in the government program, but you knew we've been negotiating this for months. So much for your serious opposition work. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Loacker: With so much applause from the ÖVP you should...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bernhard.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] Anyway: Yes, as far as equality is concerned, further steps are necessary, especially when it comes to access to gender entry for – you are by chance right – transient people in the future or also to protect the physical integrity of infants and young people when they are intergenderly and are still operating here in Austria. We also debate this, and we look at it. As we have said, we do not need any unscrupulous opposition work, but we will work with our government partner to ensure that the situation in Austria improves for all people, regardless of their gender. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21117	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. I think there is no need for interruption. We shall come to the vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 386 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[21:42:09]] 20. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on motion 771/A(E) for a resolution by Mrs Sabine Schatz, ladies and gentlemen on the "Mahnstein against War and Fascism" in Braunau (387d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21168	We reach the 20th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Sabine Schatte is speaking. - Please, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21198	Mr President. Federal Minister! Before I speak on this point, allow me to refer to Mr Ernst-Dziedzic's comments: Mrs Van den Heuvel. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] As an opposition, it is our right to make applications. That is the essence of parliamentary democracy. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and NEOS, as well as members of the FPÖ.]] Now, however, on this proposal: “For Peace Freedom and Democracy”, “Never Again Fascism”, “Millions of Dead Men” – this is the inn of the memorial in the Salzburg suburb of 15 in Braunau, right in front of the Hitler-Birthhouse. Apparently, 75 years after the liberation of Nazi fascism, this Mahnstein has actually become a stone of the incitement. How's that going? At the beginning of June, Minister of the Interior, you presented the plans for the reconstruction of the Hitler-Birthhouse. You want to neutralize the place, it's called. A space reminiscent of the crimes of the Nazis should not exist, and the Mahnstein in front of the house – a stone from the Mauthausen concentration camp – should travel to the house of history. This announcement has provided for massive protests including victim and memorial organisations – rightly! As a result, the Braunauer Mayor Post received from the Ministry of the Interior: May the Mahnstein, which is owned by the municipal community, be shipped to another publicly accessible place in Braunau, but take it away from the Salzburg suburb of 15. The debate we are having here today is precisely one reason, because you, Mr Internal Minister, have repeatedly questioned the residence of Mahnstein in Braunau. You, ladies and gentlemen, do not argue with the non-competence of the Minister today that you reject this request. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Eypeltauer.]] And yes, I think it is right and important that we finally accept this issue, that it is finally being dealt with and that the House is given a different meaning. The implementation can and should be discussed. Is the story invisible to Braunau, neutralized as it is called? Is that going to neutralize history? Do we want to make this – history invisible – in this context? - I mean no. We bear responsibility and we must see that this story is not made invisible. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Is this the supposed purpose of keeping right-wing tourists from the Hitler-Birthhouse in Braunau fulfilled? On the relevant website Irresistible is one looking forward to the removal of the antifascist meal and the return of the house to its original state. – The tourists would be particularly pleased. In the meantime, the municipality of Braunau has clearly and clearly declared itself for the stay of the Mahnmahl at exactly this place. I expect you, Lord. Minister, here today no longer at this point, but no less than to say clearly and clearly: the stone must stay there!, and not to question him any further. In this sense: “For Peace Freedom and Democracy”, “Never Again Fascism”, “Millions of Dead Men”.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21278	Next speaker: May. Ernst Gödl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21302	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs. Schatz, you have presented only a part of the entire story today. In fact, we reject this request. You write in the application: “The Federal Minister for the Interior is invited to ensure that the Mahnstein against war and fascism” in Braunau remains in place during the construction work and beyond. The Federal Minister could not even fulfill this task if he wanted to, for it is perfectly clear that this property and also this Mahnstein are owned by the municipality of Braunau. It is clearly regulated in our legal system that the community can decide on this in the course of the law of self-government. The history of recent months also shows that this is the case. The mayor has made it clear for a long time before you have tabled the request on this subject; long before: They submitted this request on 8.7. and already in June there was a press release by the mayor from Braunau - that the local population will decide how to deal with this Mahnstein, which is owned by the municipal community and on the property of the municipal community. It was not a minister and it was not the current Minister of the Interior who asked to put this Mahnstein somewhere else, but there was an expert commission that had been dealing with the birthplace of Hitler in advance – you know very well and you certainly know the expertise on it – and that was a recommendation. Among them were well-known experts such as Clemens Jabloner or Oliver Rathkolb – so truly well-known experts – who dealt with the topic on the ground – and not only in some way superficial, but in-depth. I can also recall many discussions in the Federal Council at that time. My colleague David Stögmüller of the Greens will then talk about it. We have discussed many times how we deal with this House, with Hitler's birthplace, that it should not be a point of attraction for neo-Nazis and the like. As a result, it was also considered how to deal with this Mahnstein. There was an expert commission, but it was never a debate, for example, that the federal government wanted to expropriate this property to do something else, but it was always the property of the community and thus it was also the responsibility of the community to do something there. That there was the recommendation, not a question, but one may talk about it and discuss it without foam in front of the mouth. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We reject this request for two reasons: The Federal Minister cannot make sure that something happens, nor that something does not happen, because he is not at all responsible. As a local politician, I would also oppose the fact that Parliament is preoccupied with things for which there is no competence – that is one reason. The second is: Nor does the time series, Mrs Colleague, speak in favour of your request. This problem had long been resolved when you brought it to the house here, and therefore we strongly reject your request. My colleague David Stögmüller, who is also local councillor, will explain this to you again. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21359	Next speaker: May. Felix Eypeltauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21384	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! We are working here in the Hohe Haus on various occasions and in different contexts with the darkest chapters of the history of our Republic – and that is also good. Last autumn, we decided to facilitate the recovery of Austrian citizenship by those persecuted by the Nazi regime and its descendants. In about 7 000 people, about 500 applications were submitted, and the first applicant was already granted citizenship. Thus we must meet the history of our country: reflected, responsible and above all consistent. So what is the responsible, the right and the consistent in the case of the birthplace of Adolf Hitler in Braunau? This question also brings SPÖ to the House with the current proposal, and I think it is right that we should discuss it here. I also think it is important to deal with the issue in terms of content, even if there are legal and competence-related arguments. I therefore think it is important because the matter – and this has already been carried out by my previous speaker – was threatened to escape, also due to the attitude or statements of you, Minister of the Interior. Although the decision on the house itself has already fallen – as the District Police Command is now inside – although the handling of the commemorative stone case of the municipality of Braunau and is also decided, it is good that we talk about it today. The city of Braunau has decided to leave the memorial stone, the Mahnstein against war and fascism where it is, in front of the house. We support this decision, because we are convinced that the culture of memory must above all take place in situ: not to unknowingly, toil, to grind, as the President of our House once said, or to hide, but to make himself visible, to make visible, and to contextualize, because the potential for horrendous, for loathsome, for systematic inhumanity still dwells within us all and our society today as well as at the time. It is therefore important that my generation and future generations also actively deal with the history of our country and that this ongoing process, which can never be completed, is also continued. I brought you a book today, in response to my colleagues Brandtätter. My great-grandfather Ernst Koref only escaped the deportation from Linz to Dachau in September 1944 and thus the safe death. [[The speaker puts the book “The Tide of My Life ” on the speaker’s desk.]] He was a political prisoner, as a former Social Democratic National Councilman, after the Stauffenberg attack with many former mandates – Christian-social as well as social-democratic – in prevention. His great-grandfather was a Jew. That I can stand before you today and speak to you, I owe his reputation to the Linz population and sympathy, and I owe this to files of the humanity of a police officer and the Nazi-led Linz Mayor Langoth, who achieved the release of my great-grandfather at Kaltenbrunn in Berlin. The high-powered superconductor Eigruber in Upper Austria had already avantified the family of my great-grandfather to his healthy gardening work in Dachau. So that I can stand here today and speak to you, I owe to rains of humanity and of the propriety that some at the time may have felt unreasonable. Many tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands, do not exist because their parents never existed because their grandparents or their great - grandparents were murdered. Let us never forget that humanity is not relativable and must not be negotiable! [[Congratulations with NEOS, ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] Let's always resist the beginnings of robbery and dehumanization! This commemorative stone, which is today in front of Adolf Hitler's birthplace, is to be remembered by many generations after us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21454	Next speaker: May. Hannes Amesbauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21475	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Yes, I cannot understand the request made by my colleague, Treasure of the SPÖ in any way, and I must also say – with all my understanding of the moving family history of my colleague Eypeltauer – that: [[Objection to the SPÖ]] It's all over the thing. We are the Austrian Parliament, we are addressing this to the Minister of the Interior, but this is about the municipality of Braunau. This Mahnstein, which has its right, is located on a property owned by the municipality of Braunau, and the stone itself, as I have heard, belongs to the municipality of Braunau. There has also been a sense of will of the municipal council of the municipality of Braunau in whatever form – whether there is a decision or not, I do not know now – that this stone remains there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hafenecker]] You also spoke to the SPÖ there. As a local politician, I strongly oppose the fact that we are here in Parliament or also the Minister of the Interior, without responsibility, to intervene in the right of self-government of the municipalities. This is not our task, and therefore the debate is actually over. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21518	Next speaker: Deputies David Stögmüller. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21542	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Eypeltauer, thank you very much for these yet striking words about your family history. I always find it very interesting and touching when people tell how it is related to their own family history. As a municipality citizen of the city of Braunau, this subject of course accompanies me again and again around the birthplace of Adolf Hitler – for many years, for centuries And in the future. What happens to the Hitler-Birthhouse? Personally, too, I have been committed for years to finally finding a solution to this issue. I am also glad that something is already planned and will come. That's good, too, and it's also really useful that we finally set signs there. I can also tell you one thing: No matter where you are in this world, when you say you come from Braunau at the Inn, the first thing that comes up is the subject of the Hitler-Birthhouse and the question of what happens to it. This is not only a nuisance, but also a burden on the people in the city. Many city dwellers are confronted with this over and over again, but nothing has actually happened for years. Also the eternal discussion and speculation around the world, which is to happen with it, has always separated us from each other. I am myself, as the colleague has already said, a councillor in the city of Braunau, and it is also very far above on my political agenda that a solution is found. Since 2011, the house has been empty in the Salzburg suburb. It's rotting in the middle of town. Almost three years ago, the law was passed on to this house. Since expropriation, we've been waiting for something to happen at last. There has been an advisory board in the ministry that has advised independently – well, independently, but at least not really a party-membered body – about what should happen to this House. There has also been a decision. I am also glad that this year's decision came from the federal side, that something is finally being pushed forward, and that concrete plans have been presented by the BMI. It is important for something to happen at last, because reality is already so – my colleague, treasure, has done it – that people are still really drawn from the right and right-wing corner of this house. This happens in very different forms. This goes from normal tourists, who just take a picture of the house, to right-wing extremes, take photos with unique handsigns or with right-hand extrem T-shirts in front of the house, or even cut clean from the house, so that you have something for eternity, so that you have something from Hitler in tubes to keep it. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] So you can see that there is always a confrontation with the right, with the right-hand extrem corner. It is not unfounded that the problem of this point of attraction needs to be addressed. “For Peace Freedom and Democracy”, “Never Again Fascism”, “Millions of Dead Men” – this stands on the Mahnstein in front of the Hitler-Birthhouse. Dear colleague, you know very well, I really appreciate your commitment, especially as regards the fight against anti-Semitism, against right-wing extremism. You are extremely active and know that you always have a fighter by the side with me when it comes to these issues. After the first press release from the BMI that the Mahnstein should leave the house, I immediately responded and demanded that the Mahnstein stay in front of the house. I've been talking to your officials about this, because it's also shocked me, because it's not okay that we as the city of Braunau didn't really know anything about it. [[towards Federal Minister Nehammer]] - That wasn't all right. Fortunately, the report has been revised, because the decision whether the Mahnstein must leave is only the community, and you will forgive me, Minister of the Interior: You can still talk as much as you want, but it is the decision of the city of Braunau, and as a city of Braunau we are already a – yes! – courageous councillor and let us say very little about Vienna – whether it is from the BMI or from other parties. As a city, as an advisory council, we decided that the stone remains on site, that the stone remains in the area and fortunately in front of the house, because we want to make it visible, we want a contextualization that in the past this house has also been a house with a lot of history that has happened there. That should be presented accordingly, and that is good, because it is our responsibility that we remind the next generation never to forget: “For Peace Freedom and Democracy”, “Never Again Fascism”, “Millions of Dead Men”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21611	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. Before we get to the voting process, I can ask if the club members want to interrupt a session. – Since this is not the case, we can proceed to the vote. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 387 of the supplements. If you do this, please give a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[22:02:34]] 21. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 877/A(E) by Mr Karl Mahrer, Mr David Stögmüller, Mr Douglas Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21667	Finally, we come to the 21st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Hofinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21694	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yeah, it's true: The Corona crisis has put all Austrians, all of them responsible, but above all the government faces great challenges and a hard test. It's also true what some say now that one or the other could have done better, but crises have a hook: You usually don't see them coming, and they meet one mostly unprepared. It is therefore also necessary, as we have heard more often today, to put the blame on each other, but it is far more important to learn from these challenges, to make them better in the future and to seek the common one. That is exactly what we are doing today with our proposal, for which I would also like to thank Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. We have worked out it together after long discussions in the Committee. It is about that in our state disaster and crisis management, we need a uniform regime if there is a national pandemic, an international pandemic. I would like to take this out of an area, so that we can imagine it a little better, namely the division of responsibilities. While measures to combat and eliminate natural disasters, such as avalanche disasters, floods or technical disasters, fall within the competence of the countries and are also regulated there, appropriate rules are missing when it comes to a federal pandemic or disaster. Anyone who works in a fire brigade, in the Red Cross or also in another blue light organization – voluntarily or professionally – knows how important a functioning chain of action is in which the responsibilities are precisely regulated, so that in a crisis everyone knows who has what to do. At the federal level, we currently have the following rules: In the Federal Ministry Act, it is precisely defined when a federal, an interregional, international crisis occurs, that the Federal Chancellery and coordination are responsible for the Ministry of the Interior in the state crisis and disaster management. The latter was founded in 2003, but justice is still outstanding. The key elements of this multi-party proposal are a clear definition of the case of crisis and the procedure for calling it out, but also the structures of responsibilities – as we have just mentioned them – with regard to federal and country competences. An important regulation should also include information management, but also documentation and protocol requirements. We also want to include the vulnerable groups – the children, the old people – in these legal rules. All these rules are designed to help the SKKM work more efficiently and transparently. - That's the most important thing at all. All these rules are important – not a question – but the most important ones are our citizens. I would particularly like to thank them, because in such a crisis as we have at the moment, people in the health and economic sphere have to give up much. All the rules we have made on the part of the Federal Government only serve to preserve the health of the citizens and to maintain the economic performance of the state and of the jobs. We all did not wish for this crisis, and I believe that we can all be happy here in the hall – and it also makes us proud – that we, as Austria, have come through this international crisis together very well. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] I would also like to thank all the people in Austria, all the citizens who have complied with the government's actions. It's not quite easy, the longer this crisis lasts. In this crisis, however, one has also seen who is actually keeping the system running: These are the important people in the medical field, in hospitals, old-age and nursing homes, but they are also the personnel in the trade, cleaning forces and all those responsible for the transport of goods and people from A to B; they are the teachers, the educators, the kindergartens, but also the farmers who care for healthy regional food in a crisis; they are the police, the soldiers and all volunteers who have reported to assist the authorities in testing and contact tracking. They help us with their commitment to getting the crisis under control. Unfortunately, we are not yet above the mountain, because the numbers of infections are rising again, and it also increases the number of people who are in hospitals or intensive care stations. Therefore, my urgent wish: If we help together, we protect our neighbor to prevent infection with the virus, so that we can come out of this crisis together and strengthen it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21763	Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21785	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We will, of course, support this motion for a resolution and find it more than necessary that this crisis management be justified once. It could have been a five-party request. As far as I am aware, the FPÖ will also support him; but be it: The government parties initiated it with the NEOS. It is also true that the initiative of colleagues Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff came, and therefore NEOS is in the motion for a resolution. We'll support him. As an Austrian learner, I would have liked to know what he meant at one point: “The Federal Government is invited to submit a legislative proposal to the National Council as soon as possible”. – What does that mean? One could also mention a date so that we can decide as soon as possible. It's crisis management. Do you have time? – No, you can also write a date: e.g. until 31.12., until 31.10. - You can do that. [[Abg. Wöginger: This is a common formulation!]] “The highest possible” is always so vague. That we urgently need crisis management has shown the last weeks and months, and therefore: Let's see what you're supposed to understand. [[Abg. Wögerer: Well, look here!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21832	Member of the Amesbauer has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21854	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The Freedom Party will also give its approval to this motion for a resolution on ‘Justification of general government crisis management’, as we have already done in the Committee on the Interior. It is high time we got a clear definition of the crisis case and its call. It is high time there were clear structures and competences, which are also regulated by law. It is high time that there was a cooperation protocol and documentation obligations that information flows and procedures of crisis management were made transparent and comprehensible in times of normal and crisis. We see that this transparency and this comprehensibleness are extremely important if we remember the chaos in state crisis and disaster management – in the SKKM – in which there is no supposed record of meetings. This is a situation that continues to make me unscrupulous. I still cannot entirely believe that it is at all possible that there is not even a contribution or anything like that – but be it. I hope you're serious about this now, because it's like this: Of course, the population has a clear right to transparency. It makes far-reaching decisions, especially when it comes to intervening in our fundamental rights. Decisions must be comprehensible. The population needs to know which experts advise the government and what positions the individual experts represent be, because it's probably logical that not every expert represents the same position. Well, that's always kind of going through anyway. On what basis Your decisions, ladies and gentlemen? – I really see this as an opportunity now, because so far in this crisis we have been accompanied by chaos and arbitrariness. They have taken measures which are not proportionate, unwarranted and in no way understandable. There is also a clear expectation of our approval today: that there is a draft law quickly and that it does not stick to this resolution. It also raises the question: What have you done from the Federal Government throughout the summer? It would have been time – for months – to ensure that justice. Ladies and gentlemen, I still have an expectation in addition to the fact that I hope that the draft law will soon be on the table and that all the contents of this resolution will also be taken into account and implemented. The other expectation is that you will finally change your dealings with critics and people who represent other opinions. It is not fair, nor is it a culture in democracy, that people who criticize individual measures should be treated as conspirators, liars, spiders or even as a life-threatening person. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] Let's finally conduct an open discourse! This discourse did not exist at any time in Austria, as opposed to other countries, and it is not desirable – and that must change. Stop with your raised pointing finger – especially from the ÖVP – and your hypocritical moral sermons, even here in the plenary! [[He-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] Nobody needs that. We need transparency and an open discourse. The people whose fundamental rights will be circumcised deserved this.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21914	Member of the Stögmüller has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21943	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Since the beginning of the year, we have been in the biggest health crisis in this century. The Covid-19 Pandemic has shown us the importance of a coordinated approach in the event of crisis, and also that, in such an exceptional situation, rapid action is essential. In the field of disaster prevention, there is a number of rules at the level of the federal states. While measures to combat, eliminate and alleviate the effects of emerging and threatening disasters – in particular natural disasters and technical disasters – fall within the competence of the federal states and address them accordingly, the responsibility lies for a sufficiently clear, targeted regime for the management of crises at the federal level. There's just a regulatory gap. It often depends on unclear skills, and this has been seen in the corona pandemic in recent months. To counter this, we have, together with colleagues from ÖVP and NEOS, tabled a proposal aimed precisely at filling this regulatory gap which we have seen in recent months. Thank you very much for this important initiative to colleagues Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. I think it is necessary to be ready for future epidemics and natural disasters up to Blackouts. The best crisis is and remains the one that never occurs. However, if it comes, we should be best prepared to act quickly in the event of a crisis. Therefore, it is necessary to clarify the legal situation for crises, a commitment to co-operation between the actors involved, as well as a clear regulation of information management, but also transparency and perceptibility of decisions, as well as the functioning, composition and documentation of procedures and the outcome of discussion in crisis management. Another important point that we have insisted on as part of the proposal is the consideration and involvement of the vulnerable groups, which have special needs in times of crisis – and this is very important. Isolation, job loss, fear of one's own health – these are topics that affect people with disabilities as well as people without physical or mental limitations during the Covid-19 pandemic. However, in the crisis, many people with disabilities have special needs that need to be considered in crisis strategies. We Greens therefore strongly recommend the involvement of representatives of these groups. It has been shown during the Covid-19 crisis that the involvement of people with disabilities in the Health Minister's crisis staff covered many areas which are otherwise not covered. That is why we recommend you, Mr Minister, to take this into account in the letter of law. It's important to us that the credo: Nothing about us without us, all the ministries are being kept in crisis. Accordingly, we hope that this will be taken into account in the forthcoming legislative proposal. However, I am sure that the Minister of the Interior will quickly put forward a legislative proposal that will allow us to close and close this legal gap as soon as possible and will provide a comprehensive and legal basis for general government crisis management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21991	Member of the European Parliament, Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22012	Mr President. Minister of the Interior! High house! One last time: I am very pleased that this request is going through, and I would like to thank the Greens and the EIA for their cooperation. This is the second request that we have tabled together to put the SKKM on new legal legs and to ensure more transparency. We have already debated a pressing question today, which has shown very clearly that this transparency, openness and this dialogue have not always worked optimally between the federal states and the federal government, without once again cooking up this discussion. It is precisely there that a strong and clearly structured SKKM, namely as a Community body in which the federal states and all stakeholders meet together and discuss together what has to work, what works and where, quite essential. I believe that this proposal is an important step in the right direction so that there is more clarity, more transparency. I think it is undisputed that we have noticed in the crisis that there is a need for resurgence. There were no protocols, but only daily briefings from which much was not to be read. It was not recorded who took part in which session, and so on. These are things that are, in fact, one of the once-in-a-life of transparency, should be once every meeting. I think every one of We, who are active in clubs, also know this and know it from the clubs. Accordingly, we should, of course, also set up the state functions in such a way that they can work as best they can and allow them to operate precisely this transparency. I am therefore very glad that we are working together today, and believe that in this sense Parliament should go forward self-confidently in other areas where we have learned in the crisis when we have seen things that do not work properly. We should also take action there and set up joint initiatives so that we can really get out of this crisis and say: We have learned things, we have improved things so that such a crisis no longer occurs in this form. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22055	Mr Ries is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22076	Mr President. Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen! As has already been said, SKKM conceals state crisis and disaster protection management, which should be coordinated between countries and organisations, because it is usually the responsibility of the countries. There is also a legal basis for this, and this should now also be created in the League, because there is much to regulate: When is there a disaster? Who is responsible for what? Who's in the crisis staff? What is the competence of the federal government, where the country? What precautions should be taken? How does the documentation take place? In the federal states, police were set up in the corona crisis of BAOs, so-called special building organizations. In these BAOs are executives, executives and officials of the elevated service. There are clear responsibilities, and everyone knows what to do. This proved successful not only now, but also in 2015. To remember: At that time we had the refugee crisis, at that time half of the Federal Government was submerged and the other half was busy with greeting rituals. Even then, the BAOs worked. You did what police officers were trained for at the time. Decisions have been made on the basis of laws, decrees and regulations, and this has been embarrassingly documented. That's why it's all the more surprising that this year's Covid crisis in the BMI was also reported, probably decisions were made, but nothing was documented. What has happened here, Mr Federal Minister, does not meet the requirements of professional action. It seems rather chaotic if nothing is documented. One could also suspect that nothing should be documented so that one cannot prove the whole thing in a misconception. I wonder what the executives would have done in the BMI if the countries had not properly documented their activities. That is why, Minister of State, you are taking care of order in the BMI, because what is reasonable for the countries is also reasonable to the federal government, the central office!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22113	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Can we proceed to the voting process? - Yes. We shall vote on the resolution on ‘Justification of general government crisis management’ attached to the Committee’ report 388 of the Supplements. I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this, for a sign of approval. – This has been adopted unanimously. [[105/E]] [[22:25:09]] Vote on a request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22162	We now come to the vote on the request of Members of the European Parliament to set a deadline until 19.11.2020 for Members of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on the request 167/A from Members of the European Parliament, Mr Leichtfried, ladies and gentlemen, on a federal law amending the 2011 Plant Protection Act. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. [[22:25:42]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22189	I announce that, at today's meeting, self-employed applications 919/A(E) to 958/A have been tabled. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 22.26 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
