ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e2092	The meeting was opened. I cordially welcome you to 67. Debates of the European Parliament I welcome the Minister of Finance, the ladies and gentlemen of the Journalism and at home in front of the television. You know why we are holding this meeting today: We agreed, in the President, on the mistake – it was my fault that I had observed instead of four signatures five – which led to the fact that the Federal Financial Framework Act was not, at the end of the day, decided on as a constitutional form and that it is therefore necessary to decide once again to fix it today. I really have to apologize for this Lappsus. They therefore have the possibility of further discussion. We started yesterday with the lighting of our house and other houses in orange color, some of which still have the button from last time to this action of the UN against violence against women, which until the 10. December is running together to articulate. [[MEPs from ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and NEOS wear orange plugs, on which a blue hand and the inscription “Stop violence against women” can be seen.]] Mr Leichtfried has referred to the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr Leichtfried.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e2140	Mr President. I may add to your remarks and would just like to be sure that we do not need a special session, that our request, which we are discussing today and which we are likely to decide by a majority at the end, is related to a federal financial framework law that has not come into force and has not been signed by the Federal President. In my opinion, there is now a danger if we proceed as planned that this decision may again be subject to legal deficiencies. I would ask you to explain how the situation is now, and that there is certainly not such a problem. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e2170	First of all, I read statements on the official protocols and your objections. Although we have an oral opinion by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany that he does not sign this law, it is clear by today's decision that it will enter into force. In the event that the law adopted last Thursday is signed by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, we have a clause in here that it does not apply then. In this situation, we should be legally sure, just as the President-in-Office has explained this to me, there should be no more uncertainty, but we are still considering this. Objections against the official protocol of 62. Meeting
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e2194	The Official Protocol of 62. National Council meeting from 17 to 19. November 2020 is open to Parliament's management. Against this official protocol were representatives of the club Mag. Leichtfried, Klubobmann Kickl and Klubobfrausstellerepresentative Scherak raised written objections. In essence, it was stated that during the debate on item 10, the Federal Financial Framework Act 2021 to 2021, a motion for an amendment by Mr Obernosterer and Mr Jakob Schwarz was negotiated and subsequently put to the vote, although he had only four instead of the five necessary signatures, so he was not properly introduced. As in the 64th. National Council meeting on 20 October. ==References====External links== The further objections made with regard to the legal consequences to which I also refer in the 64. I do not support the opinion of the sitting and justify my decision as follows: § 51 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure shall determine the content of the official minutes. Accordingly, the Protocol shall be recorded exclusively: the items under negotiation; the questions put to the vote; the outcome of the votes; and the decisions taken. A (constitutional) legal assessment of the existence of acts of law is not subject to the Official Protocol. The Protocol is therefore applicable in accordance with § 51 para. 3 GMOs as approved in this version. In addition, the official protocols are of 63. Meeting of 19. ==References====External links== ==References== In November 2020, the European Parliament's Directorate was unable to raise any objections. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Klaus Fürlinger, Mag. Michael Hammer, Johann Höfinger, Irene Neumann-Hartberger, Klaus Köchl, Mag. Dr. Petra Oberrauner, Dr. Reinhard Eugen Bösch, Rosa Ecker, MBA, Herbert Kickl, Mag. Philipp Schrangl, Mag. Faika El-Nagashi, Barbara Neßler, Bedrana Ribo, MA, Michael Bernhardund Mag. Beate Meinl-Risinger, MES. Entry and allocation
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e2305	As regards the negotiated items and their allocation, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e2390	I may announce that ORF 2 rises at 9.05 a.m. and transfers until 11.30 p.m. ORF III will be transferred in full length from 8.30 a.m., as will be done via live stream. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e2409	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. According to § 57 para. 3 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure a day block time of 2.5 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed. This results for ÖVP 49, for SPÖ 34, for FPÖ 28, for Greens 25 and for NEOS 20 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time for the entire agenda for those Members who do not belong to a club, 10 minutes, the debate time 5 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote on speaking time. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Let's go into the agenda. [[08:38:43]] Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (484 and 484 of the EC Treaty)._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which adopts the Federal Financial Framework Act 2021 to 2024 – BFRG 2021-2024 (485 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e2452	We come to the report of the Committee on Budgets. There was no oral reporting. Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e2484	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to point out once again what Clubob Women's Party representatives have said. I have here the committee report on which we should vote, and there is the sentence in it: ‘[...] The Federal Financial Framework Act 2021 to 2024 [...] does not enter into force.” – This is for the sake of caution by the government parties on Tuesday in the Budget Committee in the event that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has signed the law that was wrongly adopted here on Thursday. However, on Tuesday he stated in writing that he did not, of course, sign it, because it did not come about as constitutional. We have the problem that, if we decide to do so today, there is a single federal financial framework law 2021 to 2021, and that is what we should decide and in which it does not apply. This is relatively easy to repair: § 5 para. Delete 3 without replacement, and we have no problems here. I would really ask the government parties to do this, because otherwise we will pass a law that does not apply to the law we are just deciding on. That doesn't make sense. Any discussions of lawyers who then explain: Yes, but in the oral debate in the committee this and that has been said, everyone is confused. – Clearness, remove sentence, the thing is done. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and NEOS, as well as members of the FPÖ.]] Content: We reject the Federal Financial Framework Act. We have discussed this in detail. I can only sum up with three examples, why. First: We have been in the middle of the largest pandemic for more than 100 years, and the budget presented by the Minister of Finance has reduced the federal contribution to the financing of hospitals by several 100 million euros each year – 2021, 2022, 2023, 2024. [[Call the Greens.]] No one can be serious. That alone is just reason enough – what happens here is like a shield-citizen's stroke – to reject it. Second reason, which I would just like to cite as an example: We know that the municipalities alone lose about 2.5 billion euros in revenue in 2021. This means that they have 2.5 billion euros less for investments, kindergartens, school maintenance – for these important tasks that municipalities have. The Federal Government will only replace them with 1 billion euros. This means that 1.5 billion euros are missing from the communities so that they can do their job. Quite honest: If we use twenty billion to save businesses, I do not understand why we should not raise these 1.5 billion euros and have to save the communities – this is not in the budget. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As a third example, I bring unemployment benefit. We know that hundreds of thousands of people are completely indebted – they are usually always indebted, but now in the crisis there is no one who can dispute this – from today to tomorrow they have to give up half their income. We have therefore proposed that they do not fall from 100 to 50 or 55 percent, but from 100 to 70 percent, so they have at least 70 percent of their income. Do not forget: The rent, the daily purchase, the needs of the children are not cheaper, but the rent is still fully paid, although the income is halved. This is incomprehensible for the government parties. That is another reason why we do not agree. It has also happened: On Tuesday, while the Budget and Financial Committee has spoken, we have learnt from the standard.at that the government obviously plans to make a framework agreement of EUR 30 million for its own for the next few years. Later it turned out that it would also like to spend 180 million euros on advertisements. Quite honest: There's no money in the back and front. Let me just bring three examples of what you could do with this money. It's just the 16 days against violence against women. Do you know how much money the Federal Government spends in the year to fight by telephone hotlines, advice agencies and the same kind of violence on women? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] – 7 million euros. There are 7 million euros for the fight against violence against women, on the other hand 210 million euros for self-advertising, for self-PR. [[Call the SPÖ:Scandal!]] That is completely incomprehensible. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The government parties just, a few days ago, abolished the hackler scheme – that is, that someone who has worked for 47 years has paid 47 years and is 62 years old – free of charge can retire. The cost of a year's hacker scheme is somewhere at 30 million euros, 40 million euros. For this, the money is missing, but for self-advertising, you can spend over 200 million euros on PR. This is not the case with us, and you have to explain how you come up with the idea of having hundreds of millions of euros for advertising and for self-advertising, but for other things not. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] A third and last example I need to bring you, these are the laptop classes. We know that there was the proposal to equip all students with laptops with tablets. This has not happened to this day – not to this day! – although we now need them very urgently. With the money you spend for self-advertising and PR, every student, each student would have a laptop or a tablet. What is more important to you: the education of children or the self-advertising, the self-PR? – It is clearly legible in your numbers: They are self-advertising and self-PR more important than the education of children. You should be ashamed of that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I don't want to keep a special chuzpe from you here: While the budget and the financial committee were running, it came in, I thought: Well, that's going to happen over the federal procurement agency!, and that's exactly what it turned out. Which Minister is responsible for the Federal Procurement Agency? – Minister Blümel. We then asked him what's on it. Do you know what the answer was? – He said: I don't know anything about it, I'm going to look at the media reports and then comment. [[Abg. Belakovich: Oh you!]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] It is absurd for the Minister responsible to act towards Parliament as if he did not know that his mandate is being prepared for over EUR 200 million to be spent on PR, self-advertising and advertising. – Please, Mr Minister, you can tell someone else that you do not know what is happening in your own home. If that's true, you won't lose anything in this feature.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e2589	The honourable Member is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e2611	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to start with the topic of error culture, since it is always the subject of this. I would also like to expressly hold on – and this is something we should already agree with in Parliament –: The mistake has happened here in Parliament. I address this in particular to Clubob Women's Representative Lightfried, who then wanted to hang out this mistake again to anyone. The mistake has happened here in the high house, you have to stand to this and you have to correct it. [[Abg. Belakovich: He did not come into existence with anyone, he was born with you!]] [[call to SPÖ and FPÖ.]] I think this is particularly important. It is also important now, I believe – and of course we welcome the SPÖ’s suggestion – that we should examine it in a formal manner with Parliament’s Directorate, with the lawyers, so that at the end of the day we can make a clear and formal correct decision. I was quite surprised at the remarks made by Mr Krainer because I suspect that he explained to us again that this budget, which we will decide on, has a very bad data base. He has not discussed it at all, so I assume that he has now seen after a longer debate that, of course, we have a very reasonable basis for data for the BFG and for the medium-term financial framework, because, I would like to stress once again, at the beginning of the budget consultation on budget hearing, an amendment has been tabled on the basis of a completely new Wifo forecast, which of course has taken into account the latest developments. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] It is also very important for me to stress: If we decide on a budget, then, we know, this has an expenditure page and a revenue page, and I would also like to stress this explicitly, of course, we have clearly defined the expenditure page regardless of economic development. The expenditure side is extremely expansive and positive: additional means of security – you know that! –; additional resources for climate protection; there has never been so much money for the labour market and the economy. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Call the SPÖ: Don't vote at all!]] [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] - Of course! Dear SPÖ, you have wrong access to labour market policy, because you want to manage unemployment, we want to fight it – that is the big difference! – for example, with an investment premium. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Of course, the revenue side is, on the other hand, and – I stress it once again – we used a current forecast to do so at the very beginning of the budget consultation. But you also have to be so honest: The revenue side is insecure in mid-September, it is unsafe in mid-October, it is unsafe in mid-November, and it will also be uncertain in mid-January, because ultimately everything depends on how we can fight the pandemic and deal with this situation. [[Abg. Belakovich: The entire government...!]] But I would also like to talk about some optimism. I know that we have to be careful with the issue of the vaccine – there is a very positive report about it right now – but if this vaccine is there and we can convince Austrians to accept it – of course, it will always be on a voluntary basis – then it can be certain that in the second half of 2021 economic growth will start again and we will have higher revenue again. You really have to look at and see this aspect too, I think. Secondly, Speed. This is an important topic for me. I would really like to stress that it is incredible what has been done in the Ministry of Finance in the last half year. The pandemic now lasts half a year, and within a short period of time, programmes have been launched Hardening Funds, fixed-cost grant – now phase two –, short-time work, NPO funds, guarantees, liability and, and – and the economic researchers have also confirmed to us that these measures are effective. [[call to the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] At the speed – I would like to stress this explicitly again – we then again added a gear. It was indeed so that we unfortunately had to do this partial lockdown in the area of gastronomy and tourism. The programmes were launched in an incredible speed. At an eerie speed, it was possible for the gastronomy and the tourist companies to apply for revenue replacement. Even now, at the second lockdown, it has succeeded once again, because of course the sales revenue for retail is also welcome. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I would already think that the Ministry of Finance really deserves our recognition for this focused and professional work. Mr. Finanzminister, someone has to do this to you first! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] I would also like to address a very brief subject, namely the question of the tourist situation. Here I would like to expressly quote Franz Hörl and of course Karl Schmidhofer, our tourist speaker. They are really fighting for us to be able to open our ski resorts to God. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] It is really being fought because it is really important for our economy. Of course, it depends ultimately on the current pandemic situation we have, on the number of new infections. As you have been able to follow in the last few days, there has been an excuse from the Italian side for closing the ski resorts across Europe. The Minister of Finance has become active very quickly and has said: Well, okay, dear EU, if you want to close the ski resorts, then you also have to make a turnover replacement! – Yesterday or today, it looked quite different again. Mr Finanzminister, obviously have Your comments are very, very helpful! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, we need to work intensively to open the ski resorts, but the safety concepts – by the way, they have long been developed – are also needed, and it is of course also a question of the current new infections. I would like to mention what was presented yesterday: this voucher promotion, 365 euros tax-free for every employee and every employee. It also shows the speed. We know: Unfortunately, Christmas celebrations will not take place, but this tax-free voucher is a very nice replacement, and my appeal is for the Austrians to use this voucher, especially regionally – this is very important to us. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] In conclusion, two more arguments in the direction Mr Krainer, because he said, of course, that the municipalities have financial difficulties: Yeah, that's right, but the community investment law is breaking. I have made the effort, together with my colleagues, to ask each mayor in my district. These are 35 communities, 32 of which have ÖVP mayors – I would like to say again and again that this relationship is not so bad and is doing very well for the district – and all say: Of course, we can pick up the municipal investment billions. However, some have moved their projects to the 2021 budget year. Very important – you have to say that before –: All the local authorities are responsible for the economic fight against the pandemic, not only the federal level, which, of course, is training most of this debt burden, but together we will solve this problem. If the communities need more money, they will of course have talks – which has already happened: The President of the Federal Community, the Chancellor and the Minister of Finance are already in joint discussions. I would like to say that on the subject of local authorities. One thing to conclude: Mr Krainer, Please stop to bring uncertainty into our health system! [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] The funding of hospitals is of course guaranteed! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] We have a country and a community competence, of course the social insurance companies also have to co-finance, and of course – I spoke with our health care spokesman yesterday – the funding of hospitals is guaranteed. Everything else would be irresponsible. You should really end this uncertainty! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In this sense, I would like to draw the same conclusion as in March when we decided on the budget for this year. I also said: The 2021 budget is a good one for Austria, it is high time that we finally decide. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e2792	Member of the Fuchs has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e2813	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! High house! Estimated Austrians! The approval and control of the State budget are among the central, most important and also the oldest of Parliaments' rights in democracies. It is all the more embarrassing that this House is already unable for the second time to make a proper budget properly. [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and the representatives of the NEOS.]] Both the 2020 budget and the 2021 budget have made gross mistakes from the government groups. On 29.5.97 black and green national councillors deliberately decided on a wrong budget. It was a budget that was created before the Corona crisis, although we were already in the middle of this crisis. In addition, the House had to postpone the third reading by one day, because the Minister of Finance had forgotten six zeros in the budget. Last Thursday we wanted to decide on the 2021 budget. However, due to a serious formal error of the ÖVP, we could not decide on the Federal Financial Framework Act 2021 until 2021, because there was no signature on an amendment request. In this context, I would like to make two quotations from the speech by Mr Karlheinz, member of the ÖVP, on 17.11.2020. First quote: “Mr. Fuchs then no longer received any criticism of this measure, so he has moved on to the formal.” [[Abg. Hanger: That's right!]] The second quote from colleagues' head: “We are concerned about these concerns, the real concerns of these entrepreneurs [...], and not about formal questions or structural issues.” [[Abg. Hanger: That's right, too!]] – We don’t worry about formal questions – Mr Hanger, you have confirmed that – and that’s exactly why we all have to turn a round of honours here today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] If the ÖVP has the attitude that formal questions and structural questions are not relevant, it does not surprise me that the corona assistance measures are a masterpiece of bureaucracy. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and NEOS.]] We must all be aware here that the Minister of Finance is again presenting a budget, which only takes into account the lockdown light, but not the second hard lockdown. This budget is therefore already before the Makulatur decision-making process and violates an important constitutional principle, namely the principle of budgetary truth. So today 97 black and green national councillors will deliberately decide again on a wrong budget. Why this hurry? We could have taken the time to the next plenary session on 10.12. Then the Minister of Finance would have had more than enough time to review the budget and present a proper budget. This second time, however, the Minister of Finance does not find it worth the effort to present a budget taking all current developments into account – to the detriment of the Republic of Austria. [[Abg. Worm: Painful!]] In this context, I would like to refer briefly to a draft law that is truly scandalous – we discussed it yesterday in the Financial Committee – namely the “Bundesgesetz, with the promotion of the federal government due to the COVID-19-pandemic to fiscal welfare”. In principle, this is a good idea. There is also a corresponding motion for a resolution of the National Council of 22 December 1990 on the implementation of the April 2020, but – the first criticism – the subject of fiscal well-being was thus greatly depleted compared to the resolution proposal. The second point is really scandalous: the entry into force. “This federal law enters into force with 1. January 2021 in power and” – now it comes! – "is applicable to promotions whose legal basis for the first time after the 31st century. Entry into force on 1 December 2020.’; What does that mean? – This means that subsidies to entrepreneurs who do not behave tax-relatedly are not withdrawn and recovered if the support is based on a legal basis already decided in 2020. That means an eye is being pushed. Once the legal basis has been implemented in 2020, one may be unfair. On my question in the Financial Committee, why we do not have this law in place retroactively with 1.1.2020, Karlheinz Kopf, the chairman of the Financial Committee, said that there are legal principles to protect trust. This means that, thanks to ÖVP, the tax-unhonorous companies of Austria can rely on the fact that, if they were dishonest in 2020 and used subsidies, they do not have to repay them. We do not have sufficient assurance in the directives. We need a corresponding legal provision.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e2900	Member of the European Parliament is entitled to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e2922	Mr President. Estimated Minister! High house! Dear Seers! As Mr President-in-Office of the Council and Mr Hanger have already said, I should like to say at the outset that I am sorry that this formal error has undermined us and that this additional special session has had to be held. On this occasion, however, I would also like to thank Parliament's legal and legislative service, which has been very helpful to us in clarifying the procedure to be adopted for the repair. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Double farmer.]] The procedure chosen, namely the reintroduction of the government template, the decision by amendment in the Committee and, finally, this special meeting, including the withdrawal of the old BFRG, is certainly not the simplest, but the cleanest and most legally safe option to come to a valid decision and also to ensure the timely entry into force of the financial framework. Of course, the President of the Federal Republic has already made a statement on this, stating that he is unlikely to sign the old financial framework. However, it is unacceptable for him to do so in the next few weeks, so the legislator must make provision for the old financial framework to come out of effect if that is the case. If the Federal President does not sign, this part of the suspension simply goes into emptiness. You can fix this at a later date. The explanations also state that this law was passed last week, and not the financial framework that we are deciding on today. In this respect, everything is clearly and clearly regulated, and there should be no major contradictions. In short, a few objections have been made by honourable Members Krainer and now by honourable Members Fuchs: On the one hand, the Committee has repeatedly objected to the fact that the Wifo forecast, on which this financial framework and the budget of last week are based, is no longer entirely correct. I would like to note that this last lockdown scenario, which has been late delivered by Wifo due to the dynamics of the infections and which has also been responded to in the financial framework and in the budget with an amendment request, has provided for a six-week lockdown which ends in December and which assumes, in relation to the infections, that a similar situation will prevail in January, as can be expected today: that the infections will be slightly reduced, tourism will slowly ascend and travel warnings will also go back. From today's point of view, this is no different than it was a few weeks ago. That is why I also believe that no improvement is necessary in this respect. In addition, Professor Badelt noted in the expert hearing that a new forecasting would take up to ten weeks. If one really wanted to wait for this forecast, that would mean that one would still have to fight uncertainty again by then and the financial framework would not be in force at the beginning of the year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Double farmer.]] Conversely, this BFRG, this financial framework, is an important element. The government's future, forward-looking projects, which, as described in the Strategy Report, are characterised by a massive increase in the climate investment framework compared to the old framework, i.e. from 2020 to 2023. This is something we urgently need to combat the climate crisis, and to make Austria a climate pioneer again. This refers to climate-friendly innovations in industry and the expansion of public transport. One can see how over the years 2021, 2022, 2023 and 2024 the funds allowed by the financial framework increase. This includes, for example, 500 million euros over the four years in the 1-2-3 air-conditioning ticket. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For domestic environmental promotion, it is up to 1 billion euros and for the expansion of renewable energy, it is 250 million euros that cover these four years. I believe that this is central to getting hold of this climate crisis and to make Austria a pioneer again. I ask you to agree to this financial framework – today you have the opportunity. Of course, it is unfortunate that this has happened, but now you have the opportunity – including the opposition – to agree to this financial framework in order to launch these important measures. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] One last word on honourable Members and on the excitement of this framework agreement, this EU-wide call for proposals, which has been discussed in the media in recent days: As you know as a budget expert, it does not change the financial framework, the budget that has now been decided, but it is only a tender that will be evaluated subsequently by an expert jury. The 180 million euros are, of course, too high, but we want to hope that in the next four years it will not come to epidemics all the time. [[Abg. Greiner: That's it? Too high?- Oh, my God!]] Then this framework should not be used up either. As I said, Of course, this is not the case in the financial framework on which it is based today. However, in the financial framework, these important projects we had are included, and I hope that you will support them in order to ensure a good future for Austria. [[Abg. Greiner: After sure...!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e2999	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e3020	Mr President. Federal Minister! The previous speeches at least partly show where the problem is at the heart of the problem. Mr Schwarz has just said – certainly not intentional, but still – that: Well, there are problems, the President of the Federal Government has already expressed himself to the relevant legislative decision, but it was not his intention to sign it as well. That's just not how it's done. It's not stupid to the President of the Federal Republic. The Federal President, according to our constitution, is responsible for certifying the constitutional status of laws. It's not stupid for him. That is an essential point. He is obliged to certify the constitutional status of laws. Now he has expressed himself because, obviously, just as I do, he believes that this law has not been in conformity with the constitution, because there was an amendment that too few Members have signed. That is why the entire financial framework could not be decided either, because it was voted here in the version of the amendment. Previously, we heard from colleagues Hanger and also from colleagues Schwarz about fault culture. That's right: Mistakes can happen, and I think we all know that mistakes can always happen to us. The President has also said that he has not seen it. There have been several points simply overlooked. The question is how to deal with mistakes. In my opinion, the first step is always to recognize and admit the mistake, to apologise for it, and to say: That's what happened. – The second step I consider more relevant is that you learn from your mistake and try not to make it again. And that's where I have the problem with the ÖVP and the Greens. I simply don't feel that, in particular, the ÖVP, but also the Greens have been very interested in learning from their mistakes lately. This sluggish way of dealing with laws, with our constitution, with Parliament here is nothing that will happen to you for the first time. So you can't say, This happened once, sponge over it, the thing is over. Remember the apparently illegal corona regulation of Mr. Federal Minister Anschober: Right – he has also apologised for it; but that does not mean anything to all those who have been punished for it, the excuses can be made, for the punishments have nevertheless been pronounced. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] We recall the missing zeros in the budget, even that happened, or the missing signature of last week. Now you can say that's overload, You can't do it better. It can also be said that this is system-immanent because the political business is so fast-paced. But you can also believe that compliance with relevant laws is not so important to you, and that is what I suspect. We know this from the ÖVP to the satisfaction. I do not need to remind you that you all know how many laws that the ÖVP has negotiated in the leading direction have been repealed by the Constitutional Court of Justice: the storage of data, the Federal Trojans, the registration of registration marks, the social security reform. The list can be continued forever. Now one can believe that the ÖVP may not be so important to the Constitution either, because the Federal Chancellor has also made his relationship with the Constitution very clear. He has said that there are, in any case, legal pranks that it is about, it doesn't matter if things are lifted up, they won't be lifted until it's over. You can see that, that's what the ÖVP sees, that's nothing new to me. But what is already terrifying is that this is now obviously overshadowed by the coalition partner, Mrs Schwarz - - no, Mr Schwarz, it is not about forgetting a signature, it is about what you say about what attitude you have to do with it and how to deal with it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] I remember – you can still read it on Twitter –: The Green Lady, when she came out, wrote: “For all the Rules of Procedure, an exciting story, otherwise completely intrusive.” [[Intrusion of the Abg. Greiner.]] Mrs Maurer, it is not a matter of Rules of Procedure, it is a question of whether decisions of the National Council are properly taken. And this is not for Nerds, but these are the rules that we have set ourselves together here, how this Parliament works. [[Consistency with NEOS, SPÖ and FPÖ as well as with the Abg. Engelberg.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] We can also say that it does not matter whether four or five Members sign, we can say that we will not sign any more in the future and we will only put forward the proposals and vote on them. We can do that, too. If it goes to Mr Maurer, it is obviously only for Rules of Procedure and by and large. I don't think that's side-by-side. If we do not comply with these rules, then the arbitrary door and gate are open, and then this Parliament as a whole is no longer working. What I find worse is that this measure is measured by two measures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz]] I ask you: How do you explain this to a citizen, a citizen in Austria, who is punished for a mistake? I would like to remind you once again of the Corona Regulation: There were thousands of people being punished, total punishments amounting to nearly 6 million euros, due to a regulation that was illegal. These people paid these fines. You do not meet our demand and also the demand of SPÖ and FPÖ for a general amnesty for those affected to date. It was not until yesterday that the subject was postponed in the Constitutional Committee. People have been punished for something that has not even been a mistake, and you don't care. This way you measure with two dimensions. [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Mr Bürstmayr said something particularly exciting yesterday in the Constitutional Committee, because he explained how obviously the relationship between the Greens and the Constitution is. You, who spend longer on politics, all know that: ÖVP and SPÖ have subsequently decided as Constitutional Act over decades when there was still a constitutional majority. At some point the constitutional majority was not more and said: Well, we still decide on the law, it will be so long before the Constitutional Court. That's exactly what I'm The same thing Mr. Bürstmayr told us yesterday, he said: Well, the regulation was in force, of course one has to punish, it has been the applicable law. – Of course, it was the law in force, but it's about dealing with such a thing, whether you're deliberately making outright illegal orders and simply saying: I do so, although all of you have pointed out, and then there are fines to be paid, even though that has been abolished by the Constitutional Court. This is a completely new way of dealing with the Austrian federal constitution, and they have obviously learned it very well from the ÖVP. [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] I also ask: What if an entrepreneur in Austria once does not understand a trade regulation and does something he may not even be allowed to do? - He'll be punished. According to Mrs Maurer, however, this would not be so bad, that would be something for trade unions, that is also inconceivable, we would not have to punish it at all, the mistake is irrelevant. Or if someone makes a mistake in accounting and then gets a financial penalty – that goes very quickly in Austria – then after the division of the Greens this is probably also rather intrusive and perhaps something for tax evasions or anything like that. The problem is: They measure by two measures. Every citizen, every citizen in Austria, will be punished immediately if he or she makes a mistake, and with you this is at the highest possible for the record.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e3153	Member of the Wöginger has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e3175	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have actually believed that it is not necessary to speak about it, but since it is as it always is, it is, I think, necessary to hold some things. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Kassinger]] [[Abg. Anger:... Sorry! I'm sorry!]] We have immediately agreed that a formal error has occurred when submitting an amendment to the Federal Financial Framework Act 2021 to 2021 – I expressly acknowledge this. It is not Mr Krainer who – let me mention it – has only his joy, if he is in the newspaper – that the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate have come up with it when it comes to drafting the law, and they are very grateful to them, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP, Greens and NEOS.]] [[Call the FPÖ: But that doesn't change your inability!]] Then President Sobotka was last Friday, on 20. November, in the early morning immediately, and before the beginning of the regular house sitting, a special presidial was convened in which it was said that this mistake happened and that we should work together to find a solution to how we can fix this formal error. This is a formal error that was caused exclusively by both of us in this House and by no one else. It is not about the content of the law, it is not about that, as Mr Fuchs said, the budget has not been decided. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] The Bundesfinanzgesetz has been decided that the Federal Finance Framework Act has then been reintroduced through the Federal Government, because we agreed on this path in the afternoon at follow-up special conferences. That's the truth. We met three times on that day, and the legal and legislative service of this House has advised us on how to fix this formal error. If everyone had agreed, we could have decided that same evening. We then said: No, if the opposition says we need a committee meeting, then we decide after the 24-hour delay on Thursday. Today, in the early days, this Federal Financial Framework Act 2021 to 2024, which is based on a formal error in an amendment request concerning a few administrative practitioners, is to be adopted correctly. That alone is the situation – and then it is made from it a theatre that seeks the same. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] What I don't understand – and I don't think I'm saying that in times like these, in which we've been fighting every day for months to counter this pandemic and this economic crisis - – that you're denying all this, we know, they're already writing it in the newspapers: [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, exactly! I'm sure!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] Your party observer has to row back because you are just being denied. You just don't want to see people die. Currently, hundreds of people die every day in our hospitals, and you are simply squandered, dear friends of the FPÖ! That's not the way it is! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervoke of the Deputies of Smoking and Schrangl.]] We have agreed on this procedure, that is correct. This mistake has happened to us, in our clubs, because of course we are under constant pressure – not only us but also our employees. I found the procedure at the first presidential conference very, very well: that the two other presidents also immediately said that this could happen. We have looked at the request, and yes, my God, the people do not all sign the same. We will also consider adding additional safety loops. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] This could have really been considered five signatures, and this was actually accepted by the remaining members of the Presidential Conference. Then we agreed on this timetable in the evening, and that's exactly how we're going now. Today in the early morning, the word on business treatment has already begun: Is it right now that this law is passed correctly? – Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it will be decided correctly. It is the recommendation of the legal, legislative and scientific service of this House, as we are supposed to do in this case, and I would like to justify it. In the text of the Law for the Federal Financial Framework Act 2021 to 2024, § 5 para. 3: “Federal Financial Framework Act 2021 to 2024, BGBl. I No. xxx/2020, shall not enter into force.’; Why “xxx”? – Because the Federal President has not yet signed the law and it has not yet been published. The report of the Committee on Budgets also refers to the amendment, which reads as follows: “To Z 2: The Federal Financial Framework Act 2021 to 2024, based on the Government's proposal 381 of the Supplements in the 62. National Council meeting on 19 November. It was decided in November 2020 that a procedural error in the National Council would not enter into force." That's exactly what we're doing now. We cannot prejudicate the President of the Federal Republic whether he signs a law or not. He has to look to see that it has come into being in accordance with the Constitution, but this House cannot prescribe to the President of the Federal Republic whether he signs a law or not. For the above reasons, we have chosen this procedure, on the recommendation of the legal, legislative and scientific service of this House, in which I also thank the support so that we can fix this formal error. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there should already be an agreement between all the political groups in this House, that we fix a formal error to which we have immediately known ourselves and for which we have immediately defined a procedure, how we can fix it in the fastest possible way, and that then do not go back to Members and question things unfoundedly and claim wrong – this does not help us all. It is important that this Federal Financial Framework Act is now being adopted correctly – constitutionally correct and formally correct – and I see no reason to throw back nebula grenades or confuse the population, that is inappropriate. We are elected representatives of the people, and we also have this task to take seriously!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e3292	Mr Amesbauer spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e3316	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Klubobmann Wöginger claimed here that the FPÖ did not care about the corona deaths and the FPÖ denied the dangers from the corona virus. I'm actually correcting: The FPÖ naturally regrets every coronatote – as well as any dead who die of another disease. I'm actually correcting: We do not deny any dangers arising from the corona virus – but we have a completely different access than you. We criticise Their line, which costs hundreds of thousands of people the work and brings to the brink of existence. We are criticizing the collating damage, especially in the health field, as many deaths will follow, which we also regret. We also criticize your completely headless strategy of mass testing, which must be voluntary, ladies and gentlemen, without consequences! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: This is not an actual correction!]] Mr. Klubobmann Wöginger, withdraw these inconceivable statements and be ashamed of being publicly separated from the speaker's seat from such things towards the cameras!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e3367	Mr Heinisch-Hosek is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e3388	Mr President. High house! I am also allowed a brief replica to the very excited speech by August Wöginger: I'm here as a people's representative. We are representatives of the people, we are committed to the Constitution, and we have to serve the citizens. If you call this House “theater”, then it is an attack on democracy! Shame! [[Complaints with SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS.]] Dear Seers! We will not vote today – but not because the vote had to be repeated in spring because the six zeros were missing, and not because we have to repeat what was forgotten last week – a signature on the request – but because this budget is not directed towards the future. It is only logical that you have to invest acyclically now, but it is only logical that you have to upgrade the social area, it is only logical that you have to do the labour market policy differently than you do! If today it has been claimed that “never so much money” has been spent on the labour market, I can correct you quite simply: More resources were available for the individual unemployed people in 2017 and 2018 than today, and for this – that is, more than 400 000 people seeking work – and you should be ashamed of this statement! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hanger: You understand... not!]] – You don't understand anything! [[Call at the ÖVP: This creates jobs that understand...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We don't want a lost generation of Corona. Our children and young people will be so left in the rain that it really screams to heaven! They locked up the schools and said: There is a legal claim, but only if the children have been tested positively. – You have no idea what this is like when a child is in front of school change, in the fourth grade, in the fourth grade middle level: They don't know which school to choose now. You can't go sniff, I understand, but there's no way for the kids to sort of orient themselves. They also did not put an apprenticeship package on the table that would provide a perspective for young people. They have not done anything for care at all – it has just been discussed in working groups, and there is nothing in this budget about a care reform that we say needs at least EUR 1 billion. This is neither corona-conform nor a future, and you should be really ashamed of it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] More than 300 million euros for a forest fund, is it about – but 300 million euros for the unemployed? - It's not going anywhere. It would have cost 30 million euros to people who paid 45 years free of charge to pay their pension – 30 million for self-advertising? - It doesn't work out. 180 million for a joint media appearance – over 100 press conferences have already shown us how pointless some of them were, because the people who watch are no longer familiar! There are orders on the table that no longer apply then, there are regulations that require a grandchild to see grandparents several times a week so that they can continue to visit them – all these things people no longer understand. I'll tell you one thing: After all, you have cheated into the budget documents of last week – I almost dare not to say it – but I would like to speak to a chatter today. During the 16 days against violence against women Without the first reading, you change the Security Police Act and invite perpetrators – violent perpetrators – to 6 hours of free care, i.e. anti-violence training. First of all, we cannot oblige people who are not condemned to participate in anti-violence training. Secondly, the Vienna intervention agency has available for a victim 5 hours a year against violence in the family – and you invite the perpetrators to 6 hours free of charge. That too is not proportionality, believe me! That's objectionable! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] By the way – there is still much to say – I believe that we need wealth taxes so that people do not have to pay for this crisis themselves.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e3463	Mr Angerer spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e3488	Mr President. In his speech, Mr Klubobmann Wöginger claimed that the government parties had immediately understood their mistakes and wanted to fix them. - That's wrong. I am indeed correcting the fact that only on the pressure of the other clubs of the Constitutional Service was the task of examining the bill and examining whether the application was properly filed. Then in the afternoon, it took another hour with a presidential until you got back. You're the rowers!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e3562	Member of the European Parliament has been called upon to speak on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e3583	Mr President. High house! I'm glad you're all listening to me! Values Advisors! We meet again because we work on the basis of the Constitution. Even if the speeches of my previous speakers are used for a number of other purposes: Today we are dealing with the Federal Financial Framework Act – that is what we are discussing, that is what we want to decide according to Constitution. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That sounds pretty bulky, and yet it's a very important law because it shows where we want to go in the next four years. So there are the frameworks, the objectives. It shows the goals and strategies of this Federal Government over the next four years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] I'd like to talk about that. I think that's more interested in people outside than our fights here. A large budget item – EUR 16 billion – is reserved for dealing with the corona crisis. This is about wages and salaries – for example, short-time work – unemployment benefit. Entrepreneurs receive appropriate support from the Hardfall Fund, artists also have a bridge financing, and it is also about entrepreneurial costs: The fixed cost grant is a very essential point for companies to manage to get through the crisis. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Non-profit organizations are also supported, because they are also very affected at the moment. At the same time, however, we are already experiencing economic recovery. We have discussed several times how well the investment premium works. We will soon decide to increase the investment premium because it is so well accepted by the companies. These are investments in the right direction, because, as we have already discussed, we are particularly supporting investments that we want to stimulate even more, namely environmental and digital investments, as well as investments in health and life sciences. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This also includes the municipal investment package with which we invest more in projects and tasks of the municipalities – in projects that are so important for municipalities and rural development. In addition, there is support for companies through support, and I would also like to mention the loss return and the degressive depreciation – that is, loud measures to strengthen companies to make them manage to get through the crisis. Because of the current lockdown, the Wifo has revised the forecast, so, compared to the Federal Financial Framework Act last week, more money is now being provided for people – for social and for work – to support those affected by this corona crisis. As has been said, this is the direction for the next four years and not just for Corona, therefore also for another crisis: the climate crisis that concerns us. One could now say: Let's just push them up, let's see that we're going through a crisis right now, and then we're thinking about the other one, but that doesn't work. This is something we have learned very well through the corona crisis: If we wait too long and push things up, we'll fall on our heads. Then we have much bigger problems. Therefore, it is now the right time to address the climate crisis seriously, and this is also reflected in the Federal Financial Framework Act. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Hanger has already said: Never before has so much money been invested in climate protection. – Yes, and this can be seen in the figures: For example, renewable energy forms are being expanded – i.e. energy that comes from sun, water, wind and biomass. She's here, and we should use her. That's good for Austria and all of us, and that's why it's invested. Transport is one of the biggest drivers in terms of emissions, it has increased most in recent years, and therefore we must counter it: through the expansion of public transport, through the 1-2-3 ticket that comes next year and for which more money is increasingly budgeted in the coming years, and of course also through electric mobility, because not every village is yet easily accessible to the public. There too social balance is needed. Social – I am already involved in the eco-social tax reform, it is also being implemented. First steps have already begun. I'm not going to go into the details now, but as the name says, it's ecological, but at the same time it's social. We do not forget that for people it must also be assumed that they can afford to do so. Environmental promotions, boiler exchange – this brings me to the topic of advertising and PR. Yesterday, someone from the ministry told me: If you want to exchange boilers, it's not enough that we make the money available, but don't tell about it and don't bring this information to the people because they don't know otherwise. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] [[Abg. Belakovich:... 210 million...!]] –That’s why it’s about transparently presenting how much money is invested for it. [[Abg. Worm: Painful!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] [[Abg. Fireplaces:... after the boiler, what do you do besides the boiler? What do you need...?]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] There is more money for sustainable nature and environmental protection, for example for various climate measures or a new biodiversity fund, which is a very important project. [[Abg. Worm: A self-task of the Greens is that!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fireplaces]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On innovation and technology: I have already said here several times that I am convinced that innovations can help us to cope with the climate crisis. [[call to the FPÖ.]] That means that we will invest, and that is what budget is planned. To mention something: Other points are broadband development, the field of justice and, of course, education – new schools, investments in schools of tomorrow, terminal equipment, and last week we talked about ethics that comes. [[Abg. Fireplaces: school closures!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: We don't need them, they're locked up anyway!]] [[Abg. Smoking: Lock up the schools, that's better!]] Finally, to the women's budget, which is an important concern for me personally: It is still too small for me, but I still recognize that it has been massively expanded and a time-use study is coming. In that sense, I am convinced that with this Federal Financial Framework Act, we are setting the course to deal with our crises, to be able to go a good way into the future and also to create the future challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e3769	Mrs Belakovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e3790	Mr President. Federal Minister! Values Advisors! The budget has been richer since last week – as you have already heard today – around a facet: We now have 210 million euros for PR in the budget. The previous speaker comes here and says the advertising budget needs it to be applied for the boilers to be exchanged. Possible Needs You're a little bit for that, but with 210 million euros for the next three years – I think so many boilers are not available in Austria at all – you could exchange the boilers immediately. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's exactly what it's like. Approach of this Austrian Federal Government: If you take bad measures, if you don't know how to go further, if you're really responsible for mass unemployment in this country and you know that the mass pleite wave is at the doorstep, you have to see how you get it well over the ramp. I get it well over the ramp by delivering you, ladies and gentlemen, every day with a lot of money – with 210 million euros – the advertising free house. This federal government is actually doing everything in the interests of the population, but this population is so angry and does not adhere to the measures – that is the advertising of this federal government, and that is what you need to catch up with your tax money, with 210 million euros. This is a very important budget item, ladies and gentlemen. Another thing we have in the budget – in the general budget, namely from the disaster fund – is the new mass tests. The Federal Chancellor has decided that he would like to test all Austrians – against the opinion of many experts, against the opinion of the Minister of Health. I quote from the Austrian test strategy of the Ministry of Health – everyone can see it on the homepage – that says: ‘A targeted approach is essential for the use of tests.’ ‘Tests without reasonable suspicion also increase the number of false-positive results’, therefore only ‘the following persons [...] should be covered by the Austrian test strategy’ should: “Symptomatic persons”, i.e. persons who have Covid-19 symptoms – clearly – “contact persons”, “all close contact persons” of confirmed Covid-19 cases and “persons [...] tested in the framework of the “voluntary “screening programmes according to the Epidemic Act”. This is, for example, “in the field of care for older people and groups of risks”, especially in old-age homes and nursing homes, persons working in health care, and “in other facilities and establishments where there may be [...] infections due to an increased risk situation”. – This is the Austrian test strategy. There is an expert body in the Ministry of Health, which has spoken against carrying out mass tests on all Austrians – and then there is a Federal Chancellor. This Federal Chancellor decided on his own initiative: The Austrians will be tested in a large way – at the cost of what they want, and at the same time, “cost it, what it wants”, because we bought tests for almost 32 million euros, the piece at 6.50 euros. If you look at what other test options there were would have, then, this test is far more expensive, at least by 30 percent more expensive than other tests listed by the BBG. – That's the one, that's the Federal Chancellor. And it's by chance the Roche company's test. That's exactly the company, to the colleague Schwarz already on 22. September announced: Roche's got the great test now. – At that time it was already clear: Roche gets the award, freely granted by the Federal Chancellor, 32 million euros, without any tender. What is this great test that you will now offer to the Austrians? – It’s a test that only goes with a nostril. There would have been other tests in which the much less dangerous racket could have been possible, even if you were to learn and train some lay people who would then take this test from the Austrians. This is, please, not comprehensible what happened here. This has been the solo entrance of the Federal Chancellor. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, these mass tests, which will now come, are to be a test run for the forced vaccination that will come after that. That is exactly the strategy pursued by this Austrian Federal Government. Now before Christmas, let's see how many people we get to the completely pointless tests that won't make any statement at all. You'll be offering a snapshot. It is also exciting that some federal states want to test at the beginning of December, others, like the German Chancellor, would like to test just before Christmas. Yes, the left hand doesn't know what the right hand will do anyway. That's quite interesting. If you hear Mr Platter's argument, he says that we are already testing in Tyrol. December, so that if people are positive, they don't have to spend Christmas in quarantine, then suddenly that's no more insurrection. But if that's what a liberal says, it's a great scandal. If a liberal says that symptomless people are being tested to make them sick, it is a scandal when it says Mr Platter, it is taken note of, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is the policy that this ÖVP is making. The ÖVP does nothing but a show policy and a PR policy. It should now be tried on the Austrians how many we can mobilise, because if we mobilise many now, we will be able to do so in the vaccination. This is the truth behind it, it is nothing but a trial run. [[call to the FPÖ.]] What do you have about the numbers? What do you have of it, if you say now, 0.9 percent, 1 percent were random positive? We know that the error rate in these quick tests is extremely high and will probably be any third wrong positive. Then what do you have of it? What exactly can you derive from it? – You have nothing of it, and you will not get under control of the Corona crisis either, because it has not happened in other countries. If you look at the experience values from Slovakia or also from South Tyrol, you can see that this is a snapshot. If you want to do such a serious thing, you would want to do it seriously, then you have to test several times to get the overlaps so that you can really find them out. But you didn't do it at all. The logistical challenge and the costs that lie behind it – regardless of the vaccinations and of the tests, alone the cost of carrying out – go at the expense of taxpayers. And then get here and decide minus 130 million euros for the Austrian health system, for the Austrian hospitals that are being removed from the countries, 130 million euros, which would have been more important than the 210 million for the chancellor and his ministers to be well represented in the public. You didn't do anything. Removal of hackers: 30 million euros a year are too much, but there are 210 million for the Pr budget of the Chancellor and his Minister. These are the weighting and the value, ladies and gentlemen. If the colleague of the Greens also says that there is now an expansion in schools: For what? The schools are closed, the children are only cared for anyway. What do you want? You're gonna be great? Federal Chancellor, lock up the schools, our children deserve it!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e3893	The honourable Member's head has been reported to speak. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are registered with me. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e3925	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Although it is not the subject of the debate today, since Mr Fuchs referred to it, I would like to give him a brief reply. In recent months, we have necessarily had a number of support measures for individuals, especially for companies – whether the individual company or business in the trade, in the gastronomy, in the hotel industry or wherever – who were economically affected by these closure measures or those health policy measures, whether it was the hardening fund, the fixed-cost grant phase one, the already started fixed-cost grant phase two, the revenue replacement for Gastro and Trade or other. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hafenecker]] [[Abg. Houses: And you have excluded the little ones! Genuine you!]] Of course, ladies and gentlemen, in the respective individual directives of these funding measures, we have also enshrined in what Mr Fuchs has said, namely that only those companies which have shown tax goodwill over the last five years, that is, have not been legally condemned for abuse of fiscal design possibilities or have no establishment in a tax haven for tax avoidance. This is contained in every single directive. In two weeks' time, we will put forward a law that will generally define this for all future support measures – therefore effective from 1.1.2021 – so that we can save ourselves in the future from having to keep that in the individual directives. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] At the request of Mr Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, that this law, which we will adopt in two weeks, should be adopted in retroactively to this year, I made a point in the Financial Committee and said that, in my view, it would not be compatible with the idea and the principle of the rule of law, to change retroactive conditions for funding already paid. Mr Fuchs, in the directives that are now being paid out, we should have forgotten or overlooked that, in fact, we would have a problem. Of course, we have thought that we have, of course, already excluded all those companies that have abused taxes from the support measures. That's why we're going. And I'll stay with you. Their presence is incompatible with the principles of a rule of law.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e3977	Mr Angerer spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e4003	It is surprising, Mr President, how you hold the Presidency here. First of all, I spoke personally about an actual correction, since you listed me after a speaker, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, even though I had already been reported before. Now, Mr Kopf goes out and begins to talk, although as a speaker he was not at all involved, and you take note of this. Mr Obernoster would have been in the row, then Mrs. Double Bauer would have been in the row, and then Mr. Kopf would have been in the row. We would like you to have a somewhat objective presidency, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e4027	I accept the messages as they appear on my display. Take note that I do not act at random, but only after this display! Others have also tried to see that. Take note of this! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] And in the case of actual correction, the President is finally entitled to call them up only at the end of the debate. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Colleague Blümel doesn't even have a display!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Members of the European Parliament are speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e4073	Mr President, I think I can speak twice, because I am currently on the list twice and so on the display. Federal Minister! High house! I would also like to comment a little on the budget. We discussed the budget for three days in the last week. Again: I am also of the opinion of my colleagues that the hard lockdown, which is not included in this 2021 budget, should of course have been praised. I say it again: They are thus the first Minister of Finance of the Second Republic who has managed to submit a budget twice within a year, in which only one is absolutely certain, namely that it is totally wrong. [[It was in favour of NEOS and SPÖ and FPÖ representatives.]] [[Abg. Hanger:... you can't understand that!]] Unfortunately, the reason for this is that we meet today and discuss it again, but not that the understanding would simmer, but that the parliamentary clubs have experienced a formal error. I mean, seriously. Errors can happen. That's so, that's human, especially in stressful times. However, it also shows what effects such errors can have. That is why it is all the more important that we work very carefully in these times, because people must be able to rely on what is being decided here in this Parliament to do. That's why I'm really glad that we're here today, because the mistake was recognized, he was admitted, and he's just being renovated today – I think that's good. As a budget speaker, however, I am less concerned with the formal mistakes, but I am more concerned with the errors we find in this 2021 budget. The Federal Government takes a lot of money into its hands – and that is good. We think it is absolutely right for one to try to get out of the crisis right now. But it is all the more important that we work properly. What do I mean by that? – That programmes and funding that are paid out are properly set up so that they are legally safe and can be really opposed to the effects of the fight against the corona virus. They need not only to arrive quickly, but also to be perfectly safe, and yes, they must also be fair and fair. This – and now I come to talk about economic aid – is not happening right now. Entrepreneurs now - you all know - have to wait for the fixed-cost phase for over two months, and not because it did not approve of Brussels, but because the Minister of Finance sent it with a wrong reason. Is this also a formal error, Mr. Federal Minister? Of course one has noticed: Ups, now it becomes tight, which comes in November and we have to pay twice pay, now of course we have to do something, the entrepreneurs lack liquidity. – Then one has, as it were, invented this revenue over the night. In order for it to work very quickly, you have done it well – you really have to say that – that is, it is really easy to get and quickly ends up in the account. This is, of course, positive, but it could have been done with other help – quite seriously. The problem we simply have here is that exactly this revenue replacement has been set up in such a way that it is possible to treat inequality, transfer and above all legal certainty that is not guaranteed. Because it's said again and again: Jö, the NEOS are against the revenue replacement!, I really want to bring two examples. No, quite the contrary, we are concerned with the payment of aid, but this revenue replacement is simply wrong, the directive is wrong. I would also like to tell you why, on the basis of the two examples. Yesterday I discussed with an entrepreneur for a long time – Austrian family business, traditional business, a very large company that has created many jobs in this country for decades. What's going on? – It would actually be in the range of this 60 percent revenue, because its industry falls into this sector, but by the fact that the company is so large, it will eventually be replaced by 4 percent and not 60 percent of its turnover. – Is that fair or is this a formal error? Then, on the other hand, there are smaller businesses – yes, of which there are very, very many, and now we come back to the guidelines – which have now picked up the 800 000 euros and fully exploited this ceiling and therefore pay debts from the years 2018 and 2019. That'd be Covid's help, wouldn't it? Now I'm wondering, Is this wanted or is this also a formal error, Mr. Federal Minister? I'll find you here again: This federal government simply lacks implementation competence. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Cuckoo.]] You must not forget that people really have a very fine sensorium for it. This is really about the fact that, of course, when there are blatant promoters, corruption, inequality and waste can be associated with it. Yesterday was the report on the first study in the “Press”, which you have probably read. That is why it is all the more important that these funds be allocated comprehensiblely. What do we mean by that? – If you spend money, it is not only about preventing corruption, but also about people taking these decisions. This happens when you understand who gets what, what and how much – and also who does not get it. This leads to the acceptance and solidarity that we need in this society today, because of course it is quite clear what will happen: These debts, which are currently being built, have to be paid down over many, many decades. Not only will this happen to us, but it will be the next generations in particular. That is why it is so important to maintain solidarity in this regard. Budget 2021, figures of policy: Claims we make do not meet. Why do it? You do? Is it heartlessness? Is it excessive? Is there any culprits that play a role in this? At the end of the day, I don't care – honestly – but it's about the federal government taking on its responsibility and working really well for the year 2021 now. This not only concerns the Federal Government, but I also look at the Members here in this room, the representatives of Turquoise, the Black Members – I note, there are differences – and above all, of green. They have a responsibility to prepare themselves really serious for 2021. It will be a damn difficult year – and yes, mistakes will happen again, but it would be nice if you didn't make the same mistakes twice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e4124	Member of the Upper Nosterer has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e4145	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the TV screens! Mrs Doppelbauer, this government has long taken on responsibility, it will not take over, and that shows her every day! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Why we are here today in this special session, I do not want to repeat again in a broad way, it has been said enough, I believe. A formal error has occurred, no error in content. The content of this meeting will be taken from every one of them at home in front of the TV screen. [[Abg. Smoking: Errors show you, many mistakes!]] But you can also believe us – our Klubobmann Wöginger said it –: We could have improved this formal error the next day, last Friday, then we would not have needed the meeting today – if we had all agreed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] But the opposition has chosen this way; this path has been taken so that it is done here today. But I tell you one thing, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition: That was a formal error, but this republic and the people are worried about others. You would wish something different from the opposition in this situation, wish we could get it differently. [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] We've been discussing the budget for three weeks. I don't want to go back into detail, but everyone can figure out what he needs – and unfortunately, it's an unwritten law that an opposition, no matter what its name, simply doesn't go with the budget, because it can't accept and admit that it's a business and a good budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But if you look beyond the borders – and you will probably also have contact with delegates from other countries – and look at this package that our Minister of Finance has presented with the experts, you can see that a lot of money is being taken into your hands – thank God has been well managed in recent years, otherwise it would not have been possible – and that it is clearly the best package that covers all areas internationally. [[Inter-calls at SPÖ and intermediate call of the Abg. Hafenecker]] [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] Of course, there are small weaknesses there and there, which still need to be re-adjusted, but this budget also includes money for future investments. [[Intervening calls from MEPs Angerer and Worm]] Now let's get to the point: It is said by the SPÖ – I don't want to talk about the liberals, they don't know the word Corona anyway – but also by NEOS again and again, people don't know each other anymore. You're just looking for something to insure the people! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] The rules are quite easy to keep apart, wear mask and disinfect your hands. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Phone call at the NEOS.]] - If we keep that, we'll get the numbers down. The winter we only get under control when the numbers go down, and then we all have to help together – what I say the third or fourth time here at the speaker's desk. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger]] I tell you quite honestly what I no longer had an understanding for – I am not talking about all the arguments of the liberals who say that Après-Ski must be made neatly on the counter and in the pile, for that did not exist in the last winter, because there has been no effect, there is nothing happening –: When I heard the health spokesman of the Freedom Party, Clubob Manseller, even a doctor, yesterday on the radio, I thought I'd switched on the wrong station. I repeat it here again: “If you want to celebrate Christmas in peace, then don’t be tested”, supplement: [[Abg. Hörl: Incredible!]] “So if you don’t want to spend the Christmas holidays in quarantine, but prefer to visit ‘undisturbed’ relatives, you should distance yourself from a test, advise the liberals.” Do you know what that means in reverse? [[Abg. Hear: Unheard of!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Shame!]] When I was a grandchild, when someone in the family had a flu, it was called: Little children, don't go there, you'll get dressed otherwise! – Corona I don’t need to explain to you, you of the Freedom Party don’t want to understand. [[Abg. Deimek: This is the same thing the companies say! ...we have to lock the company!]] Corona is ten times as dangerous as a flu – not from me but from international experts – and then a health speaker comes from a party and says: Guys, don't be tested if you want to be with your family, because it could be that you have Corona! Go into the families, put on the people, see that the numbers go up so we don't get in control of this! – People, if that’s the perception of responsibility, then – I tell you quite honestly – I don’t understand the world anymore. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hafenecker]] Somewhere is always a point. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoking.]] Opposition, that's all good and right, but with Corona is not to play, people's lives are on it. Remember that!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e4338	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e4359	High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am slowly missing the words about what the ÖVP is doing here today. You can't explain that to anyone, that's a sad game. We hear that we have been in the middle of the biggest health crisis for 100 years and people have other concerns – yes, that's right – and the second time within half a year, the government is picking up a budget decision. [[Call the ÖVP: Well, please go!]] It is incapable of putting in order a budget that concerns the future of people in Austria. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Anger.]] And the only excuse of the ÖVP towards Gernot Blümel is that you do just that and say: That's the grievance, he can't hold it any better! He can't stop putting the zeros in the budget somehow. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – What kind of excuse is that? This is about human life and a decent budget, and now you forget a signature again, is not able to decide on the budget, and then it says that is a formal error. [[New call to the ÖVP.]] You can discuss all of this, but the point is: If you keep warning and insist that mistakes happen, I wonder why these mistakes are repeated. The worst thing for me is that in the biggest health crisis for 100 years, we have forgotten all serious about the financing of our hospitals and the health insurance fund. Half a billion euros are missing in the budget next year – half a billion euros are missing! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In every Sunday's speech, the ÖVP tells us how important the health sector is, a strong public health system, and then Gernot Blümel believes all serious that people just have nothing else to do but sit there with him for hours and philosophise over a budget. Half a billion euros are missing, is not insured. It is an insolence to all the people who are there for us in hospitals day and night now under the most difficult conditions: that we do not talk about how we can make working conditions better for all people – nothing is planned for better working conditions for care. What do we do with chronically ill people in Austria? What about psychotherapy? – I think it would come to us all quite, quite a lot of things that we could improve. But we are not talking about all of this today, no, we may be talking about saving in the health field, self-sustaining and hospital closures. This is the basis that this budget provides. You can say it's a coincidence, Gernot Blümel doesn't know better, it's missing half a billion euros, but I'm telling you honestly: Anyone who knows the ÖVP's election program knows that this is not a coincidence. For years it was the ÖVP and the Chamber of Commerce who always explained to us: There are too many beds, all of which are privatized, and you have to save in the health sector. That was the position of the ÖVP for years. In the middle of the crisis, you came up and said: Sebastian, to close and privatize the hospitals now, that is depressing, although we have collected 50,000 euros of large donations from the area of beauty clinics, you can't open that up now! – So the new access of the ÖVP is that one simply provides a batchminus so that the health insurance fund does not have the money, so that Mr. Blümel will say next year: Yes, then you have to save!, and then we don't talk about the same good performance, then we don't talk about that from the Neusiedler See to Lake Constance, from the tile army to the teacher all get the same good performance. That would be the task in the middle of the crisis, but nothing happens in the area! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Smoking.]] When, if not now, do we all have the opportunity to repair this Murks that the ÖVP has set up? I'm really asking you, Gernot Blümel: You missed half the billion euros – this must not happen, it has happened to you again – and we now have the chance to repair the whole thing. I really ask that we put it together today. In conclusion, I should like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] That means that a good way would be not to save half a billion euros in the middle of the crisis at the expense of sick people, but to take money in order to ensure that all people in Austria get the best possible health care. Mr. Finanzminister, you forgot six zeros once and now the health budget. Please fix this error! Let's see that we can really decide a good budget too! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[10:07]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e4506	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Schalmeiner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[The abg, which is going to go to the speaker's desk. Schnedlitz returns to his place.]] [[Abg. Smoking: Mr President, it's not that simple! ... confusion!]] – It always goes alternately per and counter, if not yet known.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e4550	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm a little earlier than I believed. Reference to colleagues Kucher: Col. Kucher, you know well enough how this 130 million euros came to be in hospital. This is an agreement from the last federal state financial compensation – it's a stupid automation, you know it best yourself –: If the Federal Government's revenues rise, transfers to hospitals and hospitals will also automatically be higher. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cuckoo.]] - Please listen to me! – So, then rise - - - I'm sorry, we've been discussing this so often, we've really been discussing it so many times, and it's really tiring in the meantime. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Let's talk about facts: If the federal income rises, the transfers to hospitals and hospitals in the countries automatically increase – point one. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] These revenues – that is the stupidity to this automation, which by the way, by the way, has not been agreed upon by this government, but which is the basis of the last federal federal agreement – are automatically transferred to the hospitals and hospitals. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] What was done? [[Call the SPÖ: Nothing!]] – You know that, too, but you always keep this from being out here: There is a very clear statement from the competent Federal Minister, Mr Anschober, who says that, when the whole country budgets are on the table, we all sit together and see that we close all these gaps. And for the future, as soon as the next federal-country financial compensation is to be negotiated, a new regulation is needed, which does not provide for such a stupid automation, but aims to ensure that there is a decent funding for hospitals and hospitals in the future. You know that, but that's what you're not doing, and I'm going to make that a blame for you. Get out of here and always talk about that there's a hole, there's a hole there: Who is concerned about the population? – There are those who are constantly talking about holes, although they know that in the meantime there are appropriate solutions and appropriate measures. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Get out of here all the time and talk like this: At some point it's enough for me, with all my friendship! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e4639	Deputies Schnedlitz is next in line. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e4661	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Ladies and gentlemen at home, so you know why we're meeting here today: This is because of the next punch around the budget and because of the next Murks of the ÖVP. This time you have all zeros together, but for that you have forgotten the signature. We are not talking about any complicated form, as you know it from the Financial Office or from the Covid Aid, and as Mr Finanzminister Blümel hangs around you, but we are talking about a normal request, as he is brought in a hundred times. As you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, speak of a formal error: If a citizen makes such formal mistakes in the covid aid, he will not get anything. If a citizen in the financial office makes such formal errors as you do, he will be punished. Put to the point: If the citizens around finances and budgets are as households and economies as you do, then they go bankrupt. Mr Finanzminister, you could stay here now because it is about the population. Now it is a revenge, ladies and gentlemen, that with the turquoise ÖVP – as with short and you, Minister of Finance – politicians in this country have only come to the government through marketing smears, PR campaigns and the like. The problem is: It is not possible to lead a country with marketing mushrooms, PR campaigns et cetera. We are dealing with a system in which the chaos governs, a system in which the development and feeding of media is concerned, a system in which the ÖVP is concerned with the ÖVP instead of the people in this country. I really wonder that the Greens are involved in this system and this game. Have you not yet understood that you are only the host workers in the government who are exploited by this system and then thrown overboard? Wake up once and help you interrupt this system of ÖVP! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, it would need a government that does not strengthen Sebastian Kurztärft, but Austria and strengthens the Austrians, leading personalities, standing politicians who lead this country, powerful leaders, not for chaos, but for clarity and order. But reality is another. Do you know who benefits from your marketing government? You have created, for example, the largest Amazon funding package in history through the lockdown and the overriding measures through the back door. Amazon, for example. It pays the trade on it, it pays the regional economy, it pays everyone who works in these industries. Instead of helping people, your strategy is to bring out even more benefits for the ÖVP. For example, you get the hard-working in this country into your pocket, delete the hacker board and use the tax money for yourself for advertising your government, for PR and marketing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They grab the drivers and the families with the increase of the car tax in their pockets and use the money for government advertising, PR and marketing. Now, hold on, ladies and gentlemen at home, and listen to what you can pay for – and it has been plowed to the suffering of the government this week –: You will have to pay 30 million euros for a PR offensive for joint communication between government politicians with the taxes you are working on, or with your VAT on purchasing, and 180 million euros for agency services and media connections – in good German for government inserates. Over 200 million euros, ladies and gentlemen, you have to pay to make the government stand in a better light as you get the money out of your pocket. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Do you see the vicious circle? There is an increasing burden on the population and, in order to correct this, more and more purchased reporting for Turquoise Green. The money is taken out of the pocket to ensure that the ÖVP is in the sunshine, for Sun king Short is the picture that the ÖVP wants to draw. It only benefits turquoise-green politicians. As a result, the next burden, which the people have to pay, will be followed so that they can return to tax money for the ads and for the government's PR campaigns. This is not leading a state, it is not a policy for the people of the country, but it would need it – instead of politics for politicians. It needs politics again for the people of standing politicians at a level with the people. It takes politicians who work for the population and who do not let the people work for politicians' ads and drive tax money. Letter You're in the main book: In a democracy there is not the population for politicians, but politics is there for the population. Not you are the boss in a democracy, very much honoured ÖVP, but the people is the boss.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e4752	Mr Kucher referred to an actual correction. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e4776	Members of the Klangmeiner have just carried out that there is such a thing as a budgetary automation that the hospital budget would automatically break in dramatically. – That is, of course, incorrect. It's not automatic. The budgetary authority is, of course, here in this House. Today we decide on the 2021 budget and, of course, it would be possible to make the Austrian Health Fund secure in the budget in order to finance hospitals. That's quite simple, Mr. Schallmeiner. In other areas, it has also worked. The 200 million euros advertising for Mr. Kurz and for your friend Kogler have obviously been possible. At the hospitals it becomes complicated at once. Then you say you have to wait in the middle of the crisis and make a philosopher and somehow calculate. So the ads go immediately, but the hospitals are not working, health is not the case. It somehow doesn't fit in. You know that yourself, but it's a nice attempt to give Gernot blossom back cover. If the ÖVP were to do so in the direction of Greens, it would be quite exciting.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e4816	Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e4837	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I am still under the impression of yesterday's light-in-dark gala, where I have been able to make calls with many spectators, with people who do not have a lot of money but who have donated something, and who have also spoken to them, and who have also told me a lot about cohesion in society. However, I am still under the impression of the last meeting of the FID Committee – and now we are at the opposition – in which three opposition parties have made very meaningful applications because they have said that, for example, we need covid accompanying research, we need to know what is happening in society, where it was requested that the data be finally brought together, because it is to be feared that this is not the last pandemic, but that the next one will come. There have been sensible applications, and what has happened? – They have simply been voted down, it has simply been said Njet. Then in the evening I heard Federal Minister Anschober on the radio, and he said we'll only know in a few years what was going on. - No, you could now find out what's going on. It is even necessary to do so, because our society is in a very big change. I hope you all feel that when you talk to the people. Last night it became so clear to me again. Of course, this unemployment, which will continue to rise, is doing something with us. It makes the many pleas that unfortunately come to us, something with us. We also know – and we have already talked about it here – that the technical changes need to be understood and also lead to social changes. There are a lot of people who are studying it, who are concerned with it, who also explain it to us and who explain it to society. We need to talk about this structural change, which is so essential. What we don't need is the show – it's been said several times already – because it's partly dangerous. You can discuss the mass tests, but what you can't discuss, ladies and gentlemen, is that doctors call me, for example from Salzburg, and say: We in the clinic are not tested at all. – There are nursing staff, there are doctors who are not tested, and at the same time there is a show outside. We cannot discuss this. What we cannot discuss, because this is so dangerous, is that everyone – including teachers – is afraid to say it publicly. This is also a change that has taken place in recent years. This has a lot to do with a human image, and the human image I observe and that is spreading to you is not evidence of Enlightenment, not evidence of information, but of fear. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] They don't provide information, they're indoctrination. You do not provide positive access to the topics, but you provide propaganda. We are now at this 210 million euros. Mr Federal Minister, you have the unique opportunity here to stand up and say: Ui! Something happened to us; that's what happened to us. Of course, we will not spend 210 million euros, we will not write this in any framework, but we will use a good deal of money for schools, for laptops for students who cannot afford to do so. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] That's something I'm experiencing right now. It leads to the next point, and so I come back to your fear: There are teachers who tell me how difficult it is at the moment because there are students who do not reach them in the last few weeks. So, there's a problem, and I'm saying, All right, then let's sit down and explain this to the public! No, I don't trust myself, because then what will happen to me? That is the state in our Republic: that officials, officials, and safe people no longer trust, because what happens? - You've experienced it. Mr. Landtmann-Chief has experienced what happens if he is only quietly criticizing: He's going to be shot right away. The young guy in Ischgl: What happened? – He sat down, sang a funny song, and his mother was threatened. There we stand. I've personally experienced someone saying to me: You are my friend or my enemy, and if you are my enemy, you have the consequences to bear. That's the Republic you're currently converting. You are changing something in the country, you can run away or not – you run from it and stop converting the Republic into an authoritarian state, because that's what's happening. The next propaganda you are carrying out is directed against the EU. Now, at once, the EU is to blame if our ski resorts are not allowed to work as they want. That's dangerous again, and he's running away from it. [[towards the Federal Minister for the Blümel, who is abandoning the hall]] You have to look at that! Please, ladies and gentlemen, look at this! The same Mr Blümel, who collects propagandamillions to place ads on the fact that the EU is guilty of its inability, runs from it when one tells him. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] You're so cowardly. [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] On the one hand, frighten people, and then, when you speak, run away – that's really something special. Propos EU: What are you doing? – Mr Bundeskanzler stated that Italy was a broken country. So, what do we want now? – Now we want the broken Italians to hit the broken skis and go up to the wonderful mountains. This won't work, and I'm back where I started my speech: I'm back to cohesion. Cohesion applies to our society, but of course it must also apply to Europe. I've decided not to show you any more books because They're so mean to the bookshops. But what can the bookshops do for it? This is really a very urgent reading recommendation – for the time being only in English, but you can read all English – a wonderful book “Twilight of Democracy. [[Keeping the book in height]] The Failure of Politics and the Parting of Friends’; it is by Anne Applebaum. [[call to the FPÖ.]] She was long married to a Polish politician. The book is so important because it also describes the sharing of friends – how friends separate. That is what the Polish government has done: the division of society. This is what the Hungarian government has done with Orbán: the division of society. They now want to bring this into the EU and no longer accept the rule of law. That is what we are at the next dangerous point. I also expect this government to appear clearly in Brussels and say: Governments who do not accept the rule of law, Unfortunately, the judges are not able to participate in the EU anymore, as we are experiencing in Poland. I still forgot a group. Because I have this wonderful button here, of course: [[pointing to the reversing of his saccos]] No violence against women! The “time in the picture” has even reported that women’s organisations, who say somewhere, are not running so perfectly with the Women’s Ministry, receive a call from the Chancellor’s Office: Hold the goshn, because otherwise there's nothing at all! - That's the system in our country. Please stop it! People will understand. So much money there is not that you can sell this policy with your ads. The 210 million euros will not benefit you either. But I'd like to close for Christmas. My daughter is looking forward to Christmas and is therefore happy to read the Gospel of Luke, which you all know. The most beautiful sentence for me, or the most beautiful exclamation in the whole Gospel, means: Don't be afraid! – That’s what we need to tell people: Don't be afraid! – Are you afraid of them? Look at them! They need millions to sell their propaganda – they are so weak. No, don't be afraid, we're strong. [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoking.]] We are a strong Austria, we will also hold together against people who want to frighten us. No, we're not afraid. Don't be afraid!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e4976	Mr Kollross is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e4998	Mr President. Values Advisors! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, I think it is a bit sad that the Minister of Finance prefers not to take part in his own budget debate. Thank you, he's coming. I am very pleased because I have a few questions to him, of course, starting from the press conference which he held on Monday on the topic of municipal finances. There he said, among other things, that it can not only be indebted to the federal government, but other local authorities – the local authorities – must also be indebted. When I heard this, Mr. Finanzminister, I then asked myself – apologies – a short question: What to do You're a professional, aren't you? Because I find that, as Minister of Finance, one knows so little about the financial conduct of this Republic and makes such statements, is a bit shocking. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Finanzminister, do you not know that municipalities and cities should not be indebted at all? [[Abg. Hanger: Where is the problem now?! I understand...!]] – I’ll come back to what the real problem is. Do you not know that local authorities are responsible for the indebtedness of municipalities in each state government and must agree to this? The decision whether it agrees or not is the question of the free financial summit. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It means: Is the community in a position to cancel a loan that it receives? This, of course, has a good reason to say: Who in this Republic has the tax authority? – The tax authority does not have the municipalities, the tax authority has the federal government. You decide how high VAT is; They decide how high the wage tax is; They decide whether there is a wealth tax or not; They decide how high the corporate tax is. They also decide, for example, whether Amazon will be treated as well as all other trading companies and whether they will pay as much taxes. Then you would have more in the budget with a hit of 300 to 350 million euros. Instead, tell the communities that they should be indebted. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They even decide on the taxes that the municipalities collect: Local tax and property tax are levied by the municipalities. How high the tax rate is, you decide it is the tax competence of the federal government. Which credit institution will go to a community and say: Well, of course, we like to give you a credit because we know you can't undo it! – There will be a march of the individual banks on the town hall square, and you will not be able to defend yourself as mayor. Therefore, for communities, if they cannot afford the loan, there are only three ways to solve the problem. You can privatize, therefore, the concrete question, Mr. Finanzminister: Do you want communities to privatize in the future? Do you want the communities to sell their apartments? Do you want the communities to sell the canalization? Maybe Mr Benko said he had a little bit of Gusto, would he like to have a few more municipal apartments in his portfolio? Is that your goal, Mr. Finanzminister? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second option is to reduce performance: Do you want the communities to go here in the future and say they're just doing more of the compulsory kindergarten year, that's the only thing they have to do, they're turning to the rest of the kindergarten, they're not doing any more afternoon care in schools, they're not going to lock up swimming pool, indoor pool, ice rink, and sports halls at all, because it's better, lighter and more financeable for them not to lock them up than she's visiting someone who's more expensive for them? Or do you want – because this is the only way the communities will have to get rid of these loans – that they will increase fees in the future? - Then at least say it. Do you want people to pay more for the water in the future because you really don't do your job? Do you want the municipalities to pay higher canal fees in the future? Do you want citizens to pay in future higher garbage fees, funeral fees, cemetery fees, higher child care contributions? Is that what it is? Your aim, Mr. Finanzminister, if you say you want to excuse the communities? I come to the end, because the speaking time is, unfortunately, already over. Two days ago, the Wiener Gemeinderat decided with all the votes except those of your party: The communities need help. By the way, at the address of the Greens and the NEOS: It would be time to adapt yourself in your voting behaviour to what your country parties have already done in Vienna. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Second note: The municipal government is not known as a social-democratic advance organization. That's where your ÖVP mayors sit, who are all supposed to have no problem with all of this. They unanimously decided 14 days ago that it would be necessary to pay 100 percent of the disbursed revenue for the municipalities. [[Abg. Hanger: Are you a federal or a municipal member?- Oh, my God!]] The Stadtbund – for example, Mr. Nagl, ÖVP Mayor of Graz, Mr. Willi, Green Mayor of Innsbruck inside – decided unanimously 14 days ago: The municipalities need a 100% levy on the loss of revenue. It will be time, Minister of Finance, for a bit more serious, it will be time for you to finally start doing your work, and it will be time for you to stop giving us advice, for advice is also hits. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Haubner and Mr Gabriela Schwarz]] [[Abg. Steinacker: Federal or Municipal Deputies?]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e5101	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e5122	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! The budget, the federal financial framework, has put the Federal Government's economic policy into figures, and I have to say as a liberties: The figures we see here are a single disaster. In addition, the budget is crafty and sloppy. In the last few weeks, the ÖVP has been characterised by a sloppy approach and puss in the development of the laws. I only call the forgotten six zeros, then there are only four signatures instead of five on them, in the last session you even voted against your own requests, and now this Federal Financial Framework Act. In the first version I got, there's a government template with two Es, a routing template. So that's crafty, Push, as in fact the whole policy is characterized by a regulatory chaos, of the fact that you lock companies, of the fact that you lock schools, of the fact that you lock people in and set freedom-absorbing measures. I wonder if you, Mr Bundeskanzler – not present – are asking short and the ÖVP is the government's top executive bodies asking the right questions. The only question you can and must ask yourself in times of crisis – not only in times of crisis – is that: What is the best for the Republic, for its people? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am convinced that you do not ask this question. The Federal Chancellor asks the questions: What's the best for me, what's the best for my party, the ÖVP, what's the best for my acquaintances, for my friends? - These are the wrong questions. Let's look at the procurement processes: For millions of euros, masks are purchased, which are partly non-existent. We have heard from Mr Belakovich today: For millions of euros, tests are purchased, freely awarded, which are still very, very unpleasant for the people. [[Abg. Steinacker: Mr Belakovich is not right!]] You can already adjust to it, it will be well drilled into your nose. There would be much, much better and much cheaper possibilities. All of this is granted free of charge. Let us remember the Cofag, the financing agency: There, EUR 15 billion is awarded by two managing directors and a board of directors. The whole opposition said: That is 15 billion euros of tax money, we want at least parliamentary control within a Cofag Subcommittee. This has been scrambled by the EIA, which, of course, has no interest in the fact that parliamentary control is taking place. Don't tell me we could have come to the advisory board anyway! Those who know themselves know: This advisory board is a fog grenade. Finally, these budgets are also characterised by the fact that the money has obviously been abolished everywhere else. Money is spent everywhere else, there is more everywhere: There is more for development cooperation, there is more for the foreign disaster fund, there is more for the European Union where the money will then be passed on to Turkey, as we know. There is more for art and culture, there is more for government propaganda, 200 million euros – everywhere more money we don't have. That's all on pump, it's not built on any foundation at all! Please don't tell me now that we can afford to do so, just as some representatives of the EIA constantly emphasize that we can afford it because we have managed so well – that's not enough! We already had 250 billion euros in debt. The Republic of Austria has never had any budget surpluses in the last 65 years. This claim that we have managed so well is therefore absolutely stupid, and we cannot afford to do so. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have now built up a debt mountain of 350 billion euros. With minus 20 billion euros, this budget is the most disastrous in the history of the Republic. This debt mountain is a small one, but it has to be paid back sometime. Who's going to do this? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why we are threatened with tax increases or pension reductions or reductions in social benefits or interest-rate increases. The story, which the Minister of Finance constantly tells, goes like this: The economy will explode and boom in the next few years. – Mr Finanzminister, I need you to give me the right: I just don't believe this story is a story. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We're going to have these debts on our necks, and these debts are making dependencies. Who do we owe? – At the European Central Bank, at banks, funds and cetera, they want to have consideration for this. Currently, the interest rates are still zero. Grace to us God, if interest increases to 3.4 percent – then every budget will collapse anyway. This is a totally irresponsible policy to our children and children! There are no structural reforms as they would have been announced in the crisis. No, on the part of expenditure, the slogan of Mr. Federal Chancellor “costs what it wants” – which is for a strategy, that is not a strategy at all – is given and money that we do not have is spent with full hands instead of making urgently necessary structural reforms. Moreover, the budget is the most important right of Parliament, and this too will be severely cut down. The budget will be fully passed by Parliament by your expenditure appropriations for a sum of EUR 20 billion this year – and next year it will again be EUR 8 billion. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is not only worrying, but, from our point of view, unacceptable from a liberal point of view. You do, Mr Brandstatter has already said it, a policy of fear and fear. Corona is for you the vehicle, so that the powerful – in case you are – can distribute infinite amounts of money, the whole thing on pump. It is for you the vehicle with which you destroy and destroy the middle class with which you destroy jobs with which you destroy and destroy medium-sized and small companies. At the same time, they take their pensions away from the hackers, you pick up the drivers with NoVA increases, and with your policy – Mr Schnedlitz has already said – you ensure that the rich are getting richer and richer, keyword Jeff Bezos and Amazon. This is, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, an economic revelation of the former ÖVP. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You're saying that's all kind of an alternative. The Federal Chancellor says that this is all alternatives. By the way, it is a management weakness to say that it is somewhat alternate; a good leadership always checks possible alternatives. We liberals say that there are very alternatives to confronting this virus, there are alternatives with which we do not have to lock up all the people with whom we do not rob all the people of freedom with which we do not have to lock all schools – the keyword of lost corona generation has already fallen – with which we do not have to destroy the economy and make people poor. These alternatives exist. I hope that the people will be free from fear and fear again, and then the day will come when the fog of your government propaganda, which you will finance yourself with 210 million euros, will light up and people will again be free from fear and fear; and then you will be held responsible by the voters. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In connection with this 210 million euros that you approve yourself for government propaganda, for advertising and self-advertising, which is in truth unpackable, we shall make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[10:39]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e5269	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Members of Parliament are hereby informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e5300	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Why is this special meeting necessary today? – Because we have to fix a formal error, a mistake that represents the last link in a long error chain that we had to experience up to date. The missing zeros have already been addressed today, you know the examples. Since last week, some new things have become known again, for example, that the Federal Government reserves more than 200 million euros for its own PR. 200 million euros – Mr. Federal Minister, where are the laptops for our schools? Now it's even so far that light jumps into the dark so that our schools are equipped with laptops, then to many clubs and non-profit organizations that have already done so. What about more means of protection against violence against women? Lip confessions are not enough! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, I expect you to stand up and speak and say that you do not have these 200 million, because it is important for you that those in the care and health sector finally get a salary increase and bonuses. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] How are our communities doing? - We've heard, they're not good. This has nothing to do with party policy: Many ÖVP-run communities, many SPÖ-run communities, many municipalities with mayors and mayors of other parties suffer massively from the loss of revenue of more than 2.5 billion euros for this and next year. These are only the communities, since I have not mentioned the countries at all. Mr Finanzminister, you always repeat: We do something for the communities, we have these 1 billion from the Municipal Investment Act. But please also say that there is a need for 50 percent co-financing by the communities concerned, so that they can get something at all, otherwise that will not work. What does that mean for financially weak communities? – That means that they probably do not come to the benefit of these funds. We as SPÖ call for immediate active financial support with all vehemence. As a SPÖ group, we want our communities to continue to be able to deliver their services in high quality. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What does that mean? – We want the schools to work, that they are above all open, that children are taught and not only cared for. We want to maintain the kindergartens in this quality, the old care facilities, the Water supply, infrastructure – all of this could now be achieved with immediate help for the communities and, above all, secure them in a sustainable manner. You, Mr Minister, were there in the budget hearing, at least a great deal of the time – otherwise you were not here so often. What have the experts emphasized? – The communities need support, they need to invest now. Why now? – Because the work place is effective! If we look at the unemployment rate, we need real financial support. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! If you have a heart for the communities, please agree to this request – and Mr Federal Minister, do not give up the EUR 200 million for own-PR! Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[10:44]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e5472	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. So that we do not have any uncertainty again, I may announce the following communication from the Legal, Legislative and Scientific Service, on the subject of § 5 of the present draft law: ‘The overall review of paragraphs 1 to 3 of paragraph 5 of the draft law gives rise to no doubt that paragraph 1 regulates the entry into force of the law under negotiation today. Paragraphs 2 and 3, on the other hand, regulate the withdrawal of other federal financial framework laws. With regard to paragraph 3, the following shall apply: 1) If the President of the Federal Republic of Germany were to testify to the possibly faulty BFRG, this would be made known. Only in this case, paragraph 3 shall ensure that the possibly faulty BFRG does not enter into force. 2. If the President of the Federal Republic of Germany does not confirm the possibly faulty BFRG, paragraph 3 would be empty. This has no legal consequence, because it is clear from the discussion with the explanations in the Committee's report which are BFRGs." This is the explanation of the legal, legislative and scientific service that I did not want to abstain from. Before we get to the voting process, I can ask if we can vote. Then we come to the vote. First, we vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 485 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this draft law to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to the draft in third reading, I ask for a sign. – In turn, this is the majority, so the draft law is also adopted at third reading. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Kucher, colleagues and colleagues on 'Help package for the Austrian health system'. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members of the European Parliament, Members of the European Parliament, on 'Türkis Green is planning huge budget for common PR strategy'. Who is for this, I ask him to give a corresponding sign. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kollross, colleagues and others, on 'Certain Community finances in the crisis'. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is also the minority, therefore rejected. [[10:47:58]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e5591	I am entitled to announce that, at today's meeting, the self-employed have received applications from 1121/A(E) to 1129/A(E). [[10:48:08]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00067_d7e5612	There is a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the official minutes with regard to the single item on the agenda so that this part is deemed approved at the end of the sitting. I'm allowed to read the protocol: ‘The draft law shall be adopted in the second and third readings in 485 of the Supplements to the Committee’. Are there any objections to the version or content of this part of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. This part of the Official Protocol is therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. The agenda is exhausted. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 10.49 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
