ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5060	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I'll have the 51. Open the meeting of the National Council and welcome you very warmly. I greet our guests at the gallery, the journalists and, above all, our spectators at home in front of the television sets. I can also explain to you at home why the changes in the hall have taken place. [[pointing to the Members' ranks, where a glass wall is mounted between two seats on the pults.]] It was a great wish for all Members to sit back in the ordinary Rules of Meeting, that is, not decentralized anymore, but all down in the Redout Hall. [[Abg. Belakovich: No! That's not normal...!]] The problem that has arisen is how we can ensure that we comply with the necessary distances. I talked about the summer with colleagues from the German Bundestag, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Slovenia and I asked what solutions these are driving forward. In the German Bundestag as well as in the Czech Republic and Slovakia, the mandates continue to be thinned and there is a requirement for masks; there the rules were organized in such a way, which must be observed by all parties. In Slovenia, the Rules of Procedure have re-regulated that digital voting is also possible from outside the room. Switzerland, because the National Council is close to us, has introduced a system with glass walls and partition walls – and that is what we have joined. In the Presidential it has been supported by the majority and therefore we are sitting in the same way as we are now setting up. Of course, you can take off the mask at the place, as the distance to the front man is more than 1.3 meters. We remain, however, that the parliamentary session for Members is still being transferred to the roof foyer, because of course it is not very pleasant to sit here for so long. Today, the gallery is open for the first time again, even photographers can use it and thus perform their work as best they can. However, it remains the recommendation to hold back, to wear mask, to disinfect hands and thus to comply with current circumstances. I would ask you to do so, and we will also be discussing in the Presidency how we continue to proceed. Today is a special day, I can still say that at the beginning. Unfortunately, they are not present in the plenary room, but in the cabins at the gallery: Today is the day of sign language, and I am very grateful to the ladies who have taken over the sign language interpretation here. Since 2009 they have attended all the meetings of the National Council and also events of the National Council. I am particularly grateful to Mrs Sabine Zeller, who, as coordinator, ensures that complete translation into sign language is done. – A warm thanks to our companions in this form! [[General condolences.]] [[President Sobotka, Minister of State, Geessler and representatives of SPÖ, Greens and NEOS are in favour of sign language.]] The freedom of access is my concern and, I believe, we are all very concerned. When we return to our tribal home, we will really be able to guarantee this accessibility there in all dimensions. Our speakers in disability matters have agreed that they will make an exhibition on this subject in the foyers of the plenary room in November. I will be able to carry out more in October. The Official Protocols of the 49th and 50ths. Meeting of 14. September 2020 has been raised in the Parliamentary Directorate and has not been challenged. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Michael Hammer, Mag. Friedrich Ofenauer, Alois Schroll, Petra Fürderwinkler and Bedrana Ribo, MA. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5132	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: Federal Minister for the EU and Constitution Mag. Karoline Edtstadler is represented by Federal Minister for Agriculture, Regions and Tourism Elisabeth Köstinger. I can announce that the ORF will be transferred to ORF 2 today until 1 p.m. ORF III forwards the meeting from 13.00 to 7.15 p.m. and then comments are made in the TV library. [[09:10:27]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5174	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: ‘Raus from the disposable company: New ways to avoid waste Mrs Rössler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I should like to draw your attention to the fact that their speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5201	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! Appreciated spectators here in the plenary room and at home in front of the screens! Perhaps it has always happened to you that the first sound in the early days was not the alarm clock, but a waste disposal – the familiar folding and creators of garbage carts in the early days, so you know that the waste disposal works in the country. Maybe you asked yourself: Is this such a priority now that we deal with it at a time of crisis? – I claim: Yes. The issue of discarding waste, the issue of resources is very much in line with this time of crisis. Austria has been pioneering in the field of waste separation for many years, it still has in some way. Everyone is familiar with collecting paper that collects glass – what are problem substances? – and Austria was primarily a pioneer in the biotonne. Austria was one of the countries that has introduced and retains the biotonne throughout the world. There are excellent recycling farms with very professional staff in almost all communities that support them. We have taken a big step towards the circular economy. That is enough reason to thank the staff, the many employees, for Vienna's MA 48, but also those in many waste management plants, in the waste disposal plants, in the collection facilities, because that's a lot of work. It is not the most pleasant and particularly appreciated work, but it is extremely valuable for our country. [[Congratulation with Greens, ÖVP, SPÖ and NEOS.]] So you all right? - Not quite. Waste levels continue to rise, we are now about 500 kilograms of household waste per person per year. That's too much. It is a packaging flood, it is a disposable product flood, as many describe it. Many of you, once a block-up waste collection takes place in the street, will probably have also thought of passing by: Shame what's being thrown away. There are many things that one might still need, which are actually too bad to be thrown away. What does it mean to throw away? – Waste is destroyed, burned, the remains are deposited; with them all ingredients, with them all raw materials, a lot of energy. Of course, transport routes for the materials and a lot of working time are also often included. There are used stores, there are caritas shops, but that does not change the fact that we are in an increasing stream of waste. In times of crisis, therefore, the question: Can we afford to simply throw away, destroy, or ask for so many resources in the face of rising unemployment, lower household incomes and farms fighting for survival? How can we use the existing together better, better distribute? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like to briefly outline this with three examples. Electrical appliances, electronic scrap: strong, strongly increasing quantities. Compared to other waste streams, they are a child of concern because the right disposal does not work to the extent. Only every second battery lands in a proper disposal, more than half of the batteries land in the waste. Our phones have a particularly short lifetime. Not even two years is a mobile phone in operation. Of the three million phones that are purchased each year, only once every sixth ends up in a disposal, the rest somewhere in drawers or waste. We have little treasure box in our hands. Each cell phone contains gold, silver, platinum, copper. These are the most valuable raw materials that we should actually collect, reuse, reuse. We therefore urgently need repair systems, we need longer-lived products, we need to build repair services, durable products, access to spare parts, access to instructions. Who doesn't know? A device is broken and you have to think: Is there any chance to have it repaired? It is often cheaper to buy again. That's where we have to counter it. The government programme includes a large circular economy package, a large waste policy package which is currently gradually being implemented, in preparation for a new innovation in the Waste Management Act. Especially in times of crisis, it is important to better manage with the present, more carefully dealing with – not only in terms of climate protection, but also in terms of circular economy and jobs. The AWG, the Waste Management Act, is supposed to make important choices. Second example: Food in waste. Austria is a pioneer in the biotonne, but we realize that an incredibly large part of food in the residual waste lands. This is so terrifying that it took a long time to get data. 30 percent in the black waste can be biowaste, half of which are delicious food. 16 percent of our waste is delicious food, which would have lost nothing there at all. The question is: How can you counter that? – Of course, the most important thing is to create information, awareness and already do educational work in schools and at all levels, including cooperation with trade. A significant proportion of food in the waste also comes from trade. But it is very important – of which I would be a fan – to re-enter nutrition and cooking as subjects in compulsory schools. It would be so important that every child in school has the opportunity to learn something about nutrition and also about cooking. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] A lot that is particularly concerned – and that is exactly in times when some are not doing well – is: In Austria, we pay 60 000 tonnes – 60 million kilograms – of bread in waste. There should not be 60 million kilograms of bread in waste. Therefore, the appeal to the subject to counter it and not allow shops to offer full bread shelves 5 minutes before loading! This has to be addressed by a consumer, a consumer, and also by saying that one does not want to. It's not necessary. [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as SPÖ Members.]] Third example – now it's the very heart of the issue of disposable society –: What's going on in the landscape? What happens next to the paths, in nature? You are on the go and find the entire range of various drinks to the left and right of the road. You will find a range of certain take-away packs. You can read the menus that have been sold around these outlets, and then you can calculate: How long does someone eat before the car window opens and things land next to the street? The amount of waste in the countryside, in the public area already amounts to 4 500 tonnes a year, which must be taken into account most laboriously. There is a study by the Federal Environment Agency because one wanted to look at this phenomenon, this growing phenomenon. There is at least one flurification action per year in every municipality as well as in every municipality. We are in close to 2,800 hall cleaning activities with volunteers. 160,000 volunteers go around and accept what others simply drop out of carelessness, out of ignorance, or out of convenience. They are mostly beverage packaging. There are precise analyses to cover this. This is an immeasurable work to be done. There is also a thanks to all those who go on roving, to the volunteers, but also to the Asfinag, to all the street championships. It is done incredibly much to ensure that the public space is protected from these wastes. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, the waste has also become a pretty dangerous potential for feed meadows. Every farmer who knows what causes a shredded feed can of veterinary costs and suffering knows that this material does not belong to the environment. We need to be more careful and therefore need especially in this area in which so much is thrown away and which we can describe precisely – it is the drinking area, which is very large – effective measures against the plastic flood, such as the three-point programme recently presented by the Minister of Environment, Geessler, to curb the plastic flood. We have the population on our side. The population wishes for more multi-way packaging and a fair offer in trade. It wishes to take measures and incentives to withdraw these beverage packaging, it wishes for policy to take measures to give more opportunity and, of course, to raise quotas.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5306	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5322	Please, not only support us in the population, but especially you here in the House, support us as a government! We have included a lot in our government programme, with the upcoming amendment to the Waste Management Act in implementation!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5349	I welcome – I did not see her at first – Mrs. Leonore Geessler and I can give her the floor immediately. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5370	Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Seers, of course I would also like to welcome you very warmly! Appreciate High House! I should like to thank you very much for discussing the issue of “Raus out of the Disposable Society” here today, and I would like to talk about it. It should be a new way to avoid waste, and I believe that this is a common concern. I really thank Mr Rössler very much for the comprehensive introduction to the subject and would like to respond briefly to the three points on which she has now highlighted the subject: What does it need and what is being developed? What is a special concern to me – and therefore the Connex to this crisis situation – is the following: We are living at a time when there are many people who urgently need the things that are currently landing on the garbage that are currently well produced – fresh food, functional equipment. This is not only an ecological question, but also an ecological one: It is an ecological question, because the relationship between circular economy and climate protection is a great one, and it is up to us to make this link again and again. But it is not only an ecological question, not only a moral question, if you throw food on the trash, but it is also a question of justice. It is simply unfair when people who need them are in a time that is difficult not to get the food they land in the trash, and therefore it is really a concern to me to discuss this also and especially at this time. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I should like to comment briefly on the three points raised. One topic is the question of electronic waste, functional equipment, the problem of the planned obsolescence, so that devices that keep themselves – and we remember the times of our grandparents – for decades suddenly last only years. This is happening very, very much at EU level, because the circular economy action plan is currently setting a milestone, which of course we from Austria very much support. One issue that I am particularly concerned about is the right to repair, so that consumers and consumers really have a right to be able to repair products, so at least they can be repaired. At EU level, this is really happening a milestone on a product policy that is important to us and which we also support from the ministry – the whole issue of repair – with platforms, so that we can better build up, in Austria, this repair industry, which we need, which is an economy that is small and medium-sized enterprises, which creates jobs on the ground, creates value added on the ground, and contributes to climate protection. The topic of food waste is one that has been very active in the ministry for many, many years. I believe that we really agree, is a common concern that this is a major issue that we should not simply accept in this way, so we have done a lot about it in the government programme and will continue to do so. I was – I may tell the story briefly – just a few weeks ago at the opening of a new table house in Vienna. When you see what amounts of food are going through there, it becomes clear that this is a great contribution from the tablets to the fact that food does not land in the trash, but really reaches the people they need, but it also shows the nonsense we are currently operating. That's why it's just so important that we are committed to this issue. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The third topic Mrs Rössler raised is the plastic flood. Austria is unfortunately not only a country of the mountains, but also a country of plastic waste. We currently produce 900 000 tonnes of plastic waste per year in Austria. Each of us, each of us knows this: If you go for a walk on the weekend – just like I did two weeks ago in the Styria – it doesn't take 5 minutes, it doesn't take 10 minutes and you'll find garbage in nature. This is a problem that we have all over Austria, which is a problem that reaches up to the highest mountain peaks. The Alpenverein organizes flood cleaning operations in our mountains, that is, there is really a manifest problem. I think many of us are bleeding the heart when we see how garbage lands in nature, and I think that many people in Austria are bleeding their heart when we wear our beautiful nature – and I think that is something we can really be proud of in Austria. As the Federal Government, we have now taken a first step towards joining the EU Plastic Pact. I think this is an important step. This is a pact in which European countries, together with industry, together with the economy, and civil society, commit themselves to mastering the plastic waste problem – with concrete objectives, with ambitious targets for preventing plastic waste. This is an important step, but I think we should also be ready to take the next steps. For this reason, I have proposed the three-point plan against the plastic flood and I am convinced that these three measures we propose – multi-way quotas, deposit systems and a manufacturer's levy – can really move something in the fight against plastic waste in the fight against the waste in nature. Maybe very briefly to the content – multi-way ratio in retail: I don't know how you did, I was very happy when the multi-way milk bottle showed up again. That's a simple thing. For those who want it, there should be freedom of choice. We can achieve this by promoting once again what we have been able to do in Austria – we had a very high share of multi-way routes – if we support the multi-way share with multi-way quotas, as we have provided for in the government programme. That is exactly what I want to come back to. This worked well in the 1990s, many of us know that it works very well with beer. This means that we can also create this in the width of the range of drinks in order to allow customers freedom of choice. Each multi-way bottle replaces a disposable bottle and each multi-way bottle leads to less garbage in nature, and that is the goal. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Of course we also have beverage packaging, which can only be used once. To this end, there are strict objectives at EU level for the separate collection that we need to achieve. So my predecessor Eli Köstinger commissioned a study of how we can achieve these goals. To achieve this, the proposal is to introduce a pledge on disposable bottles, a fee on disposable packaging. As you know, we are currently working in the ministry with all stakeholders – the fillers, the economy, that is, all those in this chain – on the system that this could look like for Austria. Even today, right now, a working group is taking place again in the ministry. I am confident that at the end of the year we will be able to report on a concrete model and a result, because this will also help to overcome the problem of Lettering – carelessly discarding packaging in nature. This is the core concern and the core goal, I believe, all of us are united. The third point – a manufacturer's charge on plastic packaging – is new. You know, the EU's plastic tax is in our house. I think we really have to think twice about how to best implement the control effect of this plastic load in Austria, so that there are more recyclable materials, that there are better recyclable packaging, and that – this is the meaning and purpose of the plastic load – less plastic waste is produced. That is why we aim for a model based on the 'polluter pays' principle: in the future, we will remove a levy so that we can also reward those who use more recyclable and recycled material and thus also make a big contribution to reducing the plastic flood. These are three simple points on a major problem, a diverse problem – the major issue of waste prevention, which has many different aspects. I am looking forward to the further debate – throughout the width that this issue deserves, and I believe, on the way to a circular economy. That's what we need: On the way to a circular economy in Austria, we can not only make a big contribution to climate protection, but also make a big contribution to making our Austria a bit fairer. I think that's a nice goal that you can see how ecology is related to a lot of other topics. – In this sense a warm thanks!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5462	Member of the European Parliament of the European Communities, of the one part, and of the other part of the European Parliament, of the other part, and I should like to point out that the speaking time is now 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5483	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Yeah, I think there's a big problem with the plastic waste. We have to deal with this, but we also have to differentiate. Today I got myself a plastic bottle in our canteen, and bottles are currently, at a time of infectious diseases, actually a very practical and hygienic possibility – you have to mention that too. [[Keep an empty PET bottle in height]] Our protective devices are also available here. Parliament is partly made of plastic, and that has a good reason. In other words, we must not devastate this material on our own, but we must be massively differentiated. I think we should also be careful where we can really start and bring solutions. If we know that the PET bottle in the entire plastic waste is 8 percent – with regard to our goals – then this is about the weight ratio of this stubble in the whole bottle. [[Keep the stem of the PET bottle in height]] There is a real question of whether it is the requirement to charge this part in order to achieve the overall objective, or whether the objective of the collection quotas can no longer be achieved with better collections. These are the two main problems surrounding the plastic waste: Sampling rate and Wiesring. We see this relatively well compared to the federal states: Our goal must be to reach 90 percent collective ratio. There are three federal states in Austria which are already reaching this, namely the Burgenland, Tirol and Vorarlberg. [[keeping a corresponding graphic in height]] One is down below, that is the state of Vienna. So if we want to achieve a total national quota of 90 percent, we must also motivate Vienna to move forward. They all know when this bottle lands in the trash today, then it ends up in a waste can, because Vienna is unfortunately not far enough in the separate collection. I have no problem with this either, which can be selected by any federal state – the mayor himself as a garbageman on the road to make a picture of it – but I have a problem if we want to impose a fee on the entire population of Austria just to solve the problem of a federal country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I think we will find ways that this is possible, because if it is possible in other federal states, I think, the Viennans are also ready to do so, we only have to offer them the appropriate opportunities. It is important that we accept the topic of Literring accordingly – and in this respect I also ask you to consider the whole, because Liedring not only means the plastic bottle, but Liedring is Bauschutt, Liedring is old tires, which is also the ice box that lands there or there in the forest. These are huge pollutions and this is a matter of consciousness. Thank God – and for this I would like to thank all the waste associations, the local authorities and associations very much – there are Flood cleaning actions; and everyone who has already participated in them knows how wide the field of pollution is. As an agricultural representative, I did not escape – and there are a lot of personal concerns – that there are devastating consequences in the animal population when garbage lands in the feed, up to fatal consequences. There, too, it is not only the plastic bottle, but there it is also further pollution, whether it is doses or other. In other words, we must not push away responsibility by means of a decommitment, but we must strengthen our responsibility, and I also ask the Federal Government, within the resort, to speak with the judicial body, because at the end of the day we are already dealing with the question of how the catalogue of penalties, even for small environmental offences, looks like – because it is precisely the small crimes that often cause major environmental damage. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We must not socialize the consequences of the misbehaviour of individuals – that is, I believe, very important – and impose charges on the entire population. A system evaluation for a single national collection system has long been due. There have also been efforts by the previous governments, and I believe we can achieve this. In this respect, the federal states are also very, very willing. On the topic of Lettingering I have to say quite clearly: This is a crime of ownership, and those who commit environmental and natural sins today ultimately suffer from the future of our children. In this case, we need sustainable waste management instead of individual plausible actions in order to solve these problems completely.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5564	Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5586	Ladies and gentlemen! The theme of the current hour is to avoid waste, and I would like to start by saying something basic: I want to talk about the way we operate: We produce, then we sell, then there is a very short useful time, then we throw away – and then we produce again from new and it is bought again. It is no longer the focus that the product is as sustainable for the environment and consumers as possible, it is not the focus that it lasts as long as possible and has good quality, but that we buy and buy again. [[With fingers sniffing]] [[again with fingers sniffing]] And why? – Because of course someone deserves this purchase. We are experiencing an incredible waste of resources and our garbage dumps are constantly growing. We just have to name that clearly. There is a systematic exploitation of our environment due to profit interests and in such a society we do not want to live – in a disposable society in which we buy only to buy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens]] Life is too short for that. If we talk about waste prevention, we could address quite a lot of issues – Mr Rössler, from my point of view, has very well summed up many things – but now I want to talk about that issue that the government is talking about and is not agreeing on, namely plastic waste. In Austria there is an extremely large amount of plastic waste – even since, by the way, plastic is used once and then thrown away instead of choosing the multi-way variant. At EU level, however, there is now a proposal for plastic tax. The idea behind that: There, where much plastic is produced, high taxes are taxed, so that those concerned are interested in producing less plastic to pay less taxes, because this usually does not make them jubilant. Going there, this logic works. Now there was the question in Austria: Who pays this plastic tax? – The spectators at home will probably now think: Well, the ones that cause it, the plastic manufacturers, because this plastic charge, if it really is to lead to a reduction in plastic, must be paid by those who produce the plastic and who also have it in their hands to reduce it. So far, so logical. Otherwise, our Minister of Finance Blümel, who has once again been particularly positive, thinks. He and the ÖVP say: The taxpayers and taxpayers should pay the plastic tax. That's where we already know who's meeting: 80 percent of total tax income is paid by working people. These are taxes on work, which are taxes on consumption, not taxes on wealth or taxes on property and wealth. 80 percent of the taxes are from the working people, and exactly from this pot the plastic tax is now to be paid. It's about 142 million euros – and I ask you: If we all look at the plastic charge What, then, do those who produce the plastic have for an incentive to reduce? – You don’t have any more incentive! That leads the whole ad absurdum, and that is the logic of Mr Blümel! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Since the Vienna election campaign has already opened here and has already been driven forward with Wienbashing I mean, Mr. Blümel is not consistently on the side of the working people and wants to become the mayor of Vienna. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pfurtscheller]] It doesn't work out either. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Summary: The Green Minister for the Environment has also expressed his support for the fact that producers have to pay this tax – of course we welcome it, because of course we support it – but the responsible Minister of Finance continues to say no. Going there: Perhaps we can clarify this today so that taxpayers and taxpayers will not be burdened unnecessarily. Under the rule: We have to act! The right ones have to be asked to check out, second, we have to buy away from this, throw away, buy again – it needs more way instead of one way, quite clear – and thirdly, we need a smart deposit system, where it is necessary, so that the trash ends up where it really belongs, namely in recycling and not in nature. We need all of that, all of that is necessary. Please give up the blockade, it would actually be in the sense of all of us! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5686	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5707	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The topic of the current hour: ‘Raus from the disposable company: New ways to avoid waste” is, I believe, not quite so current because of the crisis that we now have in the face of the corona insanity, in the sense of a social crisis, in the sense of an economic crisis, and especially today, on that day when, not we, but the government parties, we decide on appropriate laws, through which there are restrictions on fundamental and freedom rights. So the fact that you are bringing in a current hour on this subject is relatively necessary. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is particularly noteworthy, Mrs Rössler, how you said this issue today, because it is necessary in the final effect. You have a mediation hour or maybe even a group therapy hour with your coalition partner, the ÖVP, because despite all that You have presented here today – I can sign many, very, very many points – the representative of your coalition partner, Mr. Schmäulenschlager, has also demonstrated, here, how the ÖVP's attitude on plastic, on environmental protection and, and, is and is. So I ask you, before you come here, to agree with your coalition partner – my colleague's head is right now because the plastic theme is not his. [[towards Abg. Head who leaves the meeting room]] He doesn't think that's funny. Mrs. Federal Minister, you've been in office for ten months. You've been very, very much announced: Plastic, 1-2-3 ticket. You can see that you don't get into the alleys, it doesn't work like that, it doesn't run around like that, because in the final effect, there's nothing but marketing bubbles and headlines yet. You have found an ally in us on plastic issues, not in the plastic levy that Mr Finanzminister and current top-ranking candidate in Vienna would like to bring to the attention of the taxpayer in Austria with EUR 200 million – in this area we will not agree – but then if you have an ally on the subject Plastics need, if it is said, not to make a quota, but at least a deposit system, a non-profit system that does not burden the citizen, but the return rate is that we do not pay any penalty taxes either. That's our way, and that's also the subject where you found an ally in us. The issue of multi-way quotas – a very good approach; as you have said, it has already existed in the 1990s – would, of course, be discussed accordingly and reintroduced. What happens to your coalition partner? – He stands on the brake – “stands on the brake” is perhaps the wrong expression; he has fully pushed the gas pedal, but has put on the hand brake and is standing on the foot brake because in the final effect there is very, very little constructive. There is more of a blockade and less environmental protection and climate protection in this area. Mrs Rössler, I have to come back to you again because Vienna was already the subject today. In Vienna we have 290 kilos of waste per head; in Austria it is an average of 166 kilos. Since I ask you to be so honest, to come here and also to come at your own door and try to solve the problems where you are responsible, and that is in Vienna. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rössler.]] I would therefore ask you, if you take it seriously, to sell so serious when you make yourself here. Nevertheless, climate and environmental policy is a very, very good and important issue, in which we naturally have to take sustainable action, also in relation to everything that is renewable, which is the subject of transport, for example – I look at colleagues Hofer, the third president – the transport billions are also used in the field of environmental protection and climate protection. All these are topics that are important to us, and we expect more accents, more actions and also an implementation engine that can really be seen accordingly so that we can move forward in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5771	Next item is the report by Mr Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5792	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Many of the problems that our economic system has had before have now become so real, in the Corona crisis. We have seen how vulnerable our economic system, which depends on global supply chains, is. Suddenly, we have become aware that if there is a crisis anywhere in the world, we will no longer get any medications, no protective equipment, or that in factories the wheels will stand still, because simply no spare parts can be delivered. We have seen how vulnerable our economic system is, also because it still works like a one-way road: Resources are coming in, these are going to waste, there are even more resources in it, they become even more garbage – resources, waste. The question is: Why can't our economic system work in a cycle where we keep the material in the economic system in order to become more resistant and resistant to crises? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In our system we use more and more finite resources every day, such as oil or precious metals, and we are to such an extent of these resources Depending on the fact that our entire economic system is incredibly vulnerable. By example plastic you can see how badly we still manage to keep the material in circulation: Only 23 percent of plastic packaging will be in Austria – and we are not bad at recycling! – actually recycled, only 23 percent, the rest is burned. Don't misunderstand me: Plastic is a very valuable resource, but we are very wasteful about it. Plastic is a very durable product and should not be used for disposable products as we are currently doing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Imagine, I drink a glass of water at home, drink it out, and then throw it into the trash. [[Keeping a water glass in height]] That wouldn't do anyone, would it? But that's exactly what we do with the plastic bottles. We buy them, drink them out, and then they go to the trash. [[Keeping a plastic bottle in height]] I have to say, Mr. Schmuckenschlager: We should not go into this problem. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] There are 1.6 billion – not millions, 1.6 billion! – these plastic bottles, which land in the garbage every year alone in Austria – that is 45 000 tonnes. Just 30 years ago, when we remember – even I remember – there were all kinds of drinks – lemonades, milk, beer, wine, all the water – in multi-way bottles. We could bring them back, we got our pledge, these bottles could be re-filled 50 times and at the end also recycled. These – mostly glass bottles, but there were also PET multi-way bottles – could be kept in a circulation. In the last two, three decades, we have been able to see how these multi-way bottles have disappeared from our shelves. Today, the share of the multi-way is only 19 percent. Instead of addressing this problem politically, policy has relied on voluntary agreements. So what happened to these voluntary agreements? - As so often, they didn't work. Some beverage manufacturers have just rethinked in the last one, two years. The Minister mentioned it: We now have multi-way bottles in the milk again. I was with Greenpeace myself at the time when we implemented this project together with the dairy. It's always said that consumers don't accept that, but what happened? – They leave like the warm semis, the multi-way bottles! The problem, however, is, there are now some discounters that no longer have any deposit withdrawal systems at all. That means they can't offer multi-way bottles at all. That is why we need political frameworks, we need concrete, binding objectives, which we have also agreed on in the government programme. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is precisely for this purpose that the Minister has presented a concrete plan to increase the share of the multi-way transport from currently 19 percent to 55 percent over the next ten years. It will now be up to us – for multi-way and for circular economy everyone – that we also let our words follow political actions. Because Vienna was addressed, which was foreseeable: I don't know if all of you have noticed, but Vienna is a big city. Vienna is a metropolis, and there things may work a little differently than in small cities or in the country. I think Vienna has been very exemplary in the field of waste prevention in recent years. This could also be a model for other federal states. For example, the Vienna Waste Management Act requires a multi-way obligation for events, which I would like to see in all the federal states. Mr Rössler has also implemented this in Salzburg during her reign. That's a good idea. Steps that can also be taken by the federal states, but now we are on the train here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5888	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5910	Good morning, Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! We are talking about the disposable society today, and as you all know, I am actually a very passionate environmental protectionist. Despite this passion, however, I have wondered a little about the topic selection of the current hour. I thought there were so many topics in the environmental field, in the field of climate policy, to which we could find very concrete and helpful answers in the current crisis. The question of disposable society could be an area which, I believe, is the issue of the disposable plastic directive. I'd like to talk about that now. The first: What are we talking about? . We are talking about the fact that there is a one-way plastic directive in the European Union. It is agreed that it will enter into force, and Austria simply does not achieve its agreed objectives. If we do not achieve the objectives, we will have to pay 142 million euros per year. Minister of Finance Blümel said: This is not a problem, we are paying it out of the general budget. We have also debated in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection the proposal for a system to achieve recycling rates and reduction rates in such a way that – we see it in other countries – these penalty payments of 142 million euros do not apply. This is the current debate. But the Greens are not heroes, because this has actually led to the European Union in advance. In Austria, however, we still have relatively little to do with tangible results. In addition, that Vienna is much worse than all other federal states, I also say like the colleagues from the ÖVP – that is not a Viennabashing, that is fact –: Looking at this in Austria, it is noted that nine out of ten plastic bottles land in recycling – in Vienna it is only six out of ten. That's just the way it is. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] – Sometimes you get the applause from the wrong side, but good. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Cheerfulness of the speaker.]] Anyway, I would like to discuss the disposable society a little different. What about the problem of disposable society, apart from the plastic bottle? – It is essentially about that in Austria we are in the situation that many products we buy are not produced in an Austrian production. The reason for this is not the disposable plastic, but that we have a much too high tax and tax burden. That is the essential element. If we were to reduce the additional wage costs to such an extent that the products can be manufactured in Austria and then purchased in Austria, this would be a huge step in the right direction. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The same applies, moreover, to the taxation of the products afterwards, because it is not only too expensive to produce, but then the state also has a lot to do with it. A second element, however, is the following: We produce with the highest environmental standards, we already produce CO2-free or -poor in many areas. This, of course, is largely not the case with the countries in the Far East. The right answer would be – And here we are even on a line with the government programme, if it is done well – a CO2 tax and at the same time a CO2 limit compensation. This would mean, of course, that products produced in Austria under higher environmental standards with lower taxation and lower additional labour costs would not be more expensive for people, but then – so the assumption – would increase in quality. That must be the objective and this would also be a debate that we could have today, because this also creates regional jobs – a central element that we urgently need in the crisis. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I would like to come to my last point, to the Green Group and also to you, Mrs Minister, to address: I know that you do much more in the environmental field than your predecessors do, you also have to recognise it; but that is not a problem either, the latte was not quite high. However, I believe that we must find different formats in the crisis. We have the biggest labour market and economic crisis in the Second Republic. We know from economists that every month we need to create 10,000 to 15,000 new jobs so that we do not land where we do not want to land: in a great loss of prosperity, in a great unemployment, in a long short-term work. This is the fear of many people today. Environmental and climate policy could contribute to this. We need formats that deal with: How do we create 10,000 or 15,000 new jobs each month in the field of renewable energy, waste management, mobility, building renovation and many other areas of concern to us? – jobs that will continue to exist in the future, jobs that may now be lost in the automotive industry and will not return there either. All these answers you could have given in a current hour, but you didn't give, and that's a really missed chance.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6001	Members of Parliament are hereby informed of the position of Mr Jeitler-Cincelli. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6022	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! We now want to master the emerging challenges in the field of climate policy together, and Green Deal and circular economy should be more than mere words, keywords. Of course, our efforts must go far beyond that and a new design of circularity should arise. But if we think so, we have to consider from the beginning what happens to a product at the end of our life. Together we have a very large task ahead of us. On plastic – because this dominates the debate, I will now focus on plastic –: It needs solutions with passion and high demands, and that is exactly what I appreciate, openly, in working together in the coalition. However, many components are needed for this: Product designers, it needs research in the field of packaging innovation, the food industry, there are a lot of people who have to play in it and participate in it. We can all put together measures to achieve EU objectives. Now, however, the PET issue has been discussed again, which I think is far too short. This is a very minimal area, with which we can in no way fulfil these quotas which we must fulfil by 2025, by 2030. Unfortunately, there are many misunderstandings and misinformations. Our most urgent objective would be 90 000 tonnes more by 2030. The PET bottles would make up a maximum of 8 000 tonnes, which we would create in addition. That's a very light one. Milkmaid bill: We need an additional 82 000 tonnes of plastic waste, which would still be missing. That means it's just too short to deal with these PET bottles now. In my opinion, it would be a side effect. If we had a uniform yellow collection, uniform yellow tons throughout Austria, then the PET theme could be replaced automatically. We already have incredibly good results: 70 percent of all PET bottles are already being collected. In some federal states – and that is why it surprises me; in the mountains in Tyrol and Vorarlberg, for example, it cannot be – nine out of ten bottles are already collected without a fee, without a deposit system, even in the Burgenland for example; and other countries are already far ahead. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Only Vienna is really in the Stone Age, because – I'm sorry I have to say it – three out of ten of these bottles collected – three pieces of ten! – the rest is burned together with the waste, that’s just a fact. I am sorry that argument-based debates in such a case always fail to say that it would be all Viennabashing. No matter what you're talking about – whether it's about focal schools or about any topics you should address – it means that it's Viennabashing. – That’s not true! However, we need to talk about facts, because facts do not disappear only by ignoring them. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We need a comprehensive collection system. Especially in the current situation, as ÖVP, we do not want to impose any further burdens on entrepreneurs, but also on the people of Austria. It is already spoken of by 30 cents per bottle – in addition. The people who are already throwing their bottles at home in the yellow bag, into the yellow ton, should and should not put the bottles together anymore, because they would then have to stay for the machines straight away. You should take this with a killer effort somewhere – that is, in our opinion, a bureaucracy that arises. The small Traficant, the gas station operator, but also the kiosk operator, the small Greißler in the country, who suddenly had a killer burden with it. I think people today have other problems we need to take care of, it can't be that we're putting additional burdens on them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We want an ecological solution, yes, and PET is not a multi-way system. It is often a real mistake, I have the feeling, a misunderstanding, that one believes that this is a multi-way system. By the way, this bottle, Mr Hammer, which you had out here earlier, was made of 100% recycled, I think, a Vöslauer bottle. This is actually one of the good bottles when you take it that way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think there is a lot of ignorance in this context, even with the consumer, because the crude oil price is at the moment also in the basement, that these recycleds are hardly available; but that would be a substance for your own speech, for that I have no time now. We need honest ecological solutions and we need to expand the multi-way system – this is also in the government programme and we stand for it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thirdly, that is now my conclusion, it is also a question of justice. All federal states have ambitious programs, except for Vienna. Mrs. Federal Minister, perhaps you can talk to Mrs. Hebein, because it can't be that one actually discriminates against the Viennans, because they pay in addition because they have to pay for the waste. Due to the billing order, the city of Vienna receives from the ARA million amounts and in addition, the city of Vienna still cashes off by the heating value resulting from the waste burning, that is, double and triple. That's just three. It's quite honest. Then, if we have EU power payments, please also finance the city of Vienna in the future! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In short: In 2030 we need 90 000 tons more plastic waste. It's a simple milkmaid bill: This is never the case with extra PETs of a maximum of 8,000 tonnes that we can get there. That is, we need a uniform separation system for all of Austria. We need a budget collection directly from the households, also in Vienna, yellow tons in Vienna in the households, in the public space, in the park, at the bus stop, at the playground. This is the same with the ÖBB. In this way we will achieve the objectives in Austria and in Europe together, and we will be able to make everything even more ecological. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6128	The next item is Mrs Bayr's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6149	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! Yes, admittedly, in two and a half weeks there are elections in Vienna, but that is no reason to act completely free of facts here. Perhaps you agree within the ÖVP Group once on how many of ten PET bottles come back where or not – you yourself act with completely different numbers, it's a bit embarrassing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kirchbaumer.]] In Vienna, there is an annual waste collection of 1 million tonnes – and there are the PET bottles, which, for example, take like Mr. Schmuckenschlager to Vienna, show here, then probably not take home again and – in this case in Klosterneuburg – dispose of, but leave here, already included. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] There are 4 500 waste collection sites in Vienna. There are 455,000 containers for all possible waste fractions. There are 16 fog courts that are partly open on weekends. On average, a Wiener and a Wiener have 165 meters to the nearest old glass collection site – I look at where else this is the case. And for 30 years there has been a systematic, ever-increased separate collection of waste in Vienna. But it happens from time to time that the ÖVP is losing a few decades, that is clear to me. They are relatively back on some questions. [[towards ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] 350 tons a year are recycled, and every year 2,000 international visitors to Vienna are looking at the waste collection system, the waste separation system. Not a month has passed when, as the chairman of the Austrian-South American Friendship Group, at least one ambassador, an ambassador does not report on the phone and says: You, I would so like to bring my minister/minister to Vienna that he/she will look at the way you do in Vienna. Can you organize something? – Yes, of course I can organize it. Vienna wins prizes, but no, Vienna is terrible and bad and quite, very bad. I would like to take you with me, show you these large containers – but you must not be afraid. If you meet people in a park in Vienna who are wearing blue West, that is – even if the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Integration are trying to make you know something else – not Islamists, but Wastewatcher. These are people who are trying to get the inhabitants, the users of the To train parks to deal responsibly with garbage; but I already see: You've never heard of that before. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Vienna also has great goals. Vienna, first of all Ulli Sima as an environmental city councillor, has the goal of becoming a zero-waste city by 2050. By means of various measures, there should no longer be waste under the scope, for example by actively operating waste prevention. I have now forgotten to take my metal bottle – I drink my water here in the house only from a metal bottle that can be filled over and over again, from what else? Wiener Wasser is super. It is a question of improving the implementation of multi-way and deposit systems. It has already been said: Yes, in Vienna we don't have so many legal possibilities. Where we have the opportunity, for example at events, we can also prescribe that. I would be very pleased, Mrs Minister, if there were also regulations at the federal level, which would in many cases give the countries better management. And yes, we also plan in Vienna that wastes of combustion and exhaust gases are used even further than they are now. So the competence of the city is very great and we really do the best out of it. Let me briefly tell you something as a reminiscence to my time as environmental spokesperson of SPÖ: I then had the question of waste prevention as one of my priorities, and the Minister for the Environment was, I think, Mr Pröll. At the time, he too meant that everything works wonderfully with a voluntary commitment. – No, of course it does not work with voluntary self-obligation, we need legal quotas for multi-way, for pledge. What works very well in the gastronomy – there we have relatively high quotas – no longer works in retail. Go somewhere – and be it in such a large supermarket chain – and look for water in a pan bottle! They will fail in 95 percent of cases because there is simply no longer. This is unfair to consumers who deliberately and deliberately want to live environmentally consciously. It just doesn't work anymore, and you have to change something about it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You know, the Chamber of Commerce was very simple at the time – perhaps still today – and thought she was sending me a works councillor as a Social Democratic – at that time the works council of Amatil, the Coca-Cola-Füller am Wienerberg in favorites, then I'm going in and then it's clear - -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6237	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6253	- I starved before the threat that if you need a new filling plant, the company will be relocated. And what happened? - Nothing happened. There were no legal multi-way quotas and the company was out of Austria after two years because it was just about maximizing profits and not about pursuing any environmental ideas. That's how it looks, and that's why you're planning, Mrs. Minister, very good, and we all support you in your tripartite plan. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6283	I welcome the president of the Upper Austrian Landtag, Wolfgang Stanek, to the gallery. – Welcome to us! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Member of the Angerer Chamber has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6318	Mr President. Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, I would just like you to pay close attention to the speaking time of the EIA speakers as much as you would to the others. [[He was in favour of FPÖ, SPÖ and NEOS.]] The Greens have chosen ‘Raus from the disposable society [...]’ as the theme of the current hour. I don't know if there's a more up-to-date issue than the throwaway company, but I want to stretch the bow to the throwaway coalition, to the green-black coalition sitting here in the house. Mrs Rössler, you asked us the question: Can we afford to throw everything away at 800,000 unemployed? I ask you: Can we afford to throw our fundamental and freedom rights overboard in the case of 800,000 unemployed and short-term workers? Can we afford to throw our constitution overboard and disregard it? Can we afford to destroy popular wealth and destroy private property? – You obviously do so in this throwaway coalition of green and black, because you want to pass laws today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] All that generations have fought for, what they have built, is thrown overboard by you. But now they are sitting at the comforts of power, and the dreams of power are being filled again and again, with new funds, and then shamelessly invaded – and you also support it. [[Abg. Stögmüller: Say it!]] They also support it. I would now like to give you an example: We'll take the Chamber of Commerce. The Chamber of Commerce has still told us in spring that it has the resources to deal with the hardness fund completely easily, that it will suspend the basic set-aside for its companies, that it will waive the basic set-aside. – Now the world looks completely different! Of course, our demand to resolve reserves for the recovery of deposits was rejected. We're putting off the basic charges? - Now the world looks different. Now comes the Chamber of Commerce and argues: We have had such a great deal of effort through the management of this hardening fund, and we must impose the basic burden. And what happens in parallel, and you cover that? At the same time, the Minister of Finance informs entrepreneurs that this basic amount can be recovered from the fixed-cost grant. That is, the taxpayer now pays the Chamber of Commerce – cross-financing of the Chamber of Commerce via tax money. It is a scandal, and this scandal not only reveals Mr Erwin Angerer from the liberals, but also Mrs Jungwirth. I don't know if you know the lady, my knowledge is that she's the Vice-Chancellor. She says: “I am really unwitting, with what unfrozenness the Turkish Finance Minister serves his party friends in the Chamber of Commerce! The cross-subsidisation of the WK’” – the Chamber of Commerce – “by means of taxation is a strong piece!” said Sabine Jungwirth in conclusion.” And you cover it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why, of course, at the next meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy next week, we will be returning a request for a resolution of the Chamber of Commerce' reserves. I have been told a little more about the fact that other reserves are obviously hidden in the Economic Chamber's balance sheet. The report of the Chamber of Commerce is obviously the most secret document in this Republic, because it is not possible to take into account the account of the Chamber of Commerce. Mr Kopf, open the account of the Chamber of Commerce! Your members want to know whether you have parked additional reserves in the Chamber of Commerce for Advertising and Training, in addition to the relevant legal reserves. Or Mr Matznetter from the SPÖ – he's not here now; he's Vice-President, he should have: Open things up! We want to see that! We want to see these things, what is really going on in the Chamber of Commerce and how tax money is being financed cross-financed, how it will be moved into your constructions. These are the current topics we should talk about instead of having a cardboard cover or plastic bottle discussion that is really not interested in any of the 800 000 people who fear their existence. Perhaps still final, dear Greens, a question about the millions of masks you have bought in China and which are parked somewhere: Will they be recycled or will they be thrown away? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6376	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I also pointed out to Mr Bayr that she had to speak the final sentence, and I also did not interrupt you, because you did not talk about the subject in principle. I can draw attention to this. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Mrs. Geessler has been reported to speak. She also now has an absolute speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6406	It will be shorter; just three points. Mr Bernhard's speech, and perhaps a little on that of the honourable Member's smoke in front of it as a replica: Today, at a later item on the agenda, we will launch an amendment to the Environmental Promotion Act, which will secure and create 45 000 jobs in Austria over the next few years with one of the many measures contained in it, namely in the area of thermal rehabilitation and boiler production. So this is going to be a big topic here in this House today, and I hope it will also be a subject, because this novelle is actually a milestone. I'd like to say more about that later. With the Renewable Extension Act – I don't know where Mr. Rauch is right – we do exactly the same: Investment security for the next few years, decades. This is a boost in investment in the expansion of renewable energies, but also a planning security for many businesses. These are orders, these are jobs, these are sustainable jobs that are also sustainable. So this is going to be a big topic here in this House today. However, in climate policy as in the waste prevention policy, I believe that – and this is related to the circular economy and climate policy: great synergies – we have reached a point in the debate and in the urgency of the issue where we can no longer say: We discuss it in the circle, we do this first and then that, one waiting for the other! – We really have to move a lot of levers at the same time. In order to facilitate the debate, perhaps three more points: The first – and this has already happened in several speeches – is the topic of numbers. Last week, we had the waste management associations from both Tyrol, Vorarlberg and Burgenland – that is, those who need to know and who do not know how these figures come about – heard and know that we already reach the target in these countries. This means that we will also take away from today's debate: Es there is obviously a need for an even more valid database, because the figures currently under discussion cannot be understood by the experts. We will therefore ensure that we do the same in the ministry. Secondly, on the question of: Are not other goals more important? Higher recyclate shares, the question of separate collection et cetera? – Also: Let's discuss it in the context that the subject also has! A deposit system leads to a better quality collection, which means that better material is also available for use in the food sector – we discussed the PET bottle earlier – as a basis. So that's how it works: There are cross-links, interrelationships, that's not either-or, but we need to think for a lot of these measures now, because we just have a pressure of action and a time pressure. Accordingly, this is also the objective of the three-point plan – and I would like to conclude this issue – because in the household sector, a quarter of plastic packaging and plastic packaging waste are, in other words, precisely the area on which this is concerned. That is to say, we really have a subject for the people of Austria, which is a significant part, and, as I said, it is not the only thing we do, not the only thing we have to do. Waste prevention is a big topic, needs a lot of measures at many different levels, but you have to start somewhere, and we do that.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6461	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6482	Spoštovana Visoka Hiša! Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate spectators here at the gallery and at home in front of the screens! Just let me sum up with a personal experience that I have made at home on my farm! We are dealing with the direct marketing of fresh milk. Ten years ago we began to fill our milk in milk bottles and deliver them up to the doorstep. That was something special ten years ago, which did not exist in my home region in southern Carinthia. After a year we evaluated the milk delivery in bottles. The fact was: We supplied milk bottles to 200 households twice a week. That was about 1,000 bottles a week, and we then asked our customers: Dear people, how are you satisfied with this service? – The first answer was not the taste and was not: It's great that it's hay milk! Rather, the first answer was: At last, less garbage! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I can also tell you how much trash we have saved: There were about 55 000 tetrapak packs, which were therefore not in circulation. To this end, my colleagues from the ÖVP will probably say: Great, a perfect example of the self-responsibility of consumers! But if you pass my farm just a few steps further, you come to the first meadow next to the road. When I walk there all year round, one comes across me, namely, such bottles in various forms of decomposition. [[The speaker holds a crushed PET bottle in height.]] And at the end, these bottles are very often still in the feed of our animals, although we very often end up by walk our meadows and collect plastic. My business is not the only one, but it has a lot of farms to fight with such pollution, and then the self-responsibility ceases! That is why it is only important and correct that our Federal Minister, Mrs Leonore Geessler, has called out this three-point plan so that we can now get there that we can withdraw a fee on disposable packaging so that there is a manufacturer's charge for plastic and that we can establish the multi-way bottle in Austria again and come up from 19 percent to 80 percent where we have been before. In this house too, we could go ahead with a good example and instead of turning such bottles in our canteen simply on multi-way glass bottles. [[Keep the PET bottle in height]] So we would immediately increase the share – these 19 percent. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Because today so much was said about Liedring: Yes, 4 500 tons of waste land along the roads just so in nature and in the countryside. 4 500 tons, that's 4.5 million kilograms! Do you know how many plastic bottles and other wastes you need to collect so you can get on such a tonage? Of these 4,500 tonnes, only 1 000 tonnes are collected each year through voluntary ground cleaning operations and the rest remains outside. It is therefore greatly shortened to say: It's enough to move through our landscape with flood-cleaning actions. – It can't be like that! This is an essential contribution from all of us – thank you very much for doing so! – but that cannot be the end of the bill. The conclusion of the invoice shall be that on these bottles it is not: Please recycle me, but rather, Mr. Schmuckenschlager: Get your pledge back! We will succeed with the three-point plan. We'll get the plastic deposit. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6554	Mrs Shetty is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6576	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I can join with colleagues Michi Bernhard, who has already explained how our basic attitude to the pledge system is and that there might have been a better choice for the current hour. This has nothing to do with the urgency of the issue, but that we may at the moment have very different burning issues, our colleague has already done. I would like to start a little more fundamentally and take the opportunity to look back at the last year and, above all, the beginning of this legislative period. I still have something very good in mind, because that was, of course, an exciting moment for me, namely my first speech on climate protection and environmental protection: In this speech, I strongly pointed out how important it is that we, the country's leaders, have a sense of the drama of climate change and environmental destruction. At that time, I showed what a Europe will look like in 2070 if we do not radically divert: Water supply in Italy, Spain and Greece will have collapsed until then. Agriculture will be in front of the collapse. The Netherlands, Belgium, the United Kingdom and Northern Italy will have serious problems with sea level. In Austria, the Danube Plain and Burgenland will be fully under way. The Alps will be ice-free and snow-free until then. In addition, old and weak people will now be life-threatening every summer. – This is our future, the future of the next generation. It is therefore necessary that we act today, not tomorrow, not the day after tomorrow, and for that more will be necessary than a present hour to the throwaway society, dear Greens! One year after the start of the legislative period, we miss the big throws, the big reforms and also the approaches for the great thing at all. I'm telling you, too. I was always signaled by the Greens on other topics: We cannot join Moria, we cannot vote in favour of LGBT rights, we cannot vote with you on human rights issues, we cannot vote in favour of a ban on chick saviors because we have enforced climate protection. - Dear Greens! A message in this direction: For all other questions, all convictions have been thrown overboard, it simply happens far too little! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Perhaps a short sidestep to a current topic, as the turquoise-green federal government is already overwhelmed with 100 refugees from Moria: By 2070 – if we stick to this worst-case scenario – the UN expects hundreds of millions of climate refugees. These will no longer be locked away on islands and kept away as we do now. Let us take this into account, perhaps also the colleagues from the ÖVP. It is clear to me – I meant this at the outset – that in recent months we have experienced and are still experiencing a very different crisis. But we must not make the mistake of playing a crisis against the others. We know that, in particular, the climate crisis is likely to become a much greater crisis. That's why we have to act today. I wish you, Mrs Federal Minister – and I have said this several times in the Committee – a great deal of success in the fight against the numerous resistances, especially from the coalition partner. I ask you, however, that more come from your side than PR and show measures! Bicycle paths, deposit system: All this is good, but we must not lose sight of the whole thing. I would also like to stress that you have, above all, the support of young people in Austria. You will know the numbers from the study published last week: 80 per cent of the Eleven to 18-year-olds indicate that they consider environmental and climate change to be the biggest problem. You may also have heard of the calculations that say that in 2050 we may have more plastic than fish in the world's oceans if we continue to do so. – I know that all of this sounds very dramatic, but reality is dramatic, and that’s why we have to look at it and that’s why we have to act. I showed a little less than a year ago at my first speech in the National Council, what the Climate Committee says and what this worst-case scenario is. I always focus on generation-righteousness and on the impact on the next generation, because it is we who will feel these effects, with full weight, and because we will have to pay the bill. It won't matter if something went too fast for the blockers, if there were any constraints or if this wasn't so good for the voters in the district. The coming generations will measure governments and, above all, this government by whether it has finally put in place the big, courageous reforms in order to avert the forthcoming threat of existence. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Perhaps one last thing, so as not to make my speech so negative, also to colleagues from the Greens and you, Mrs Minister: There have been steps in the right direction since January. I think you have to acknowledge that. The government's proposal for the EAG, for example, is one of the best steps today, but the Rudder has not been torn around for a long time, neither in emissions, energy consumption, soil sealing, biodiversity loss or transport policy. Therefore, my final sentence: 2050 or 2070 no one will be interested that it was a little better with Turquoise-Green than with the Blues. It must have been fundamentally better, and that's, I think, the order to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6654	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. [[10:29:01]] Current European hour
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6675	We now come to the current European hour on the subject: “Support a European asylum system and save the children from Moria, Federal Chancellor!” I welcome the following Members of the European Parliament who have been nominated: I see Mrs Minzig, Mr Sidl, Mr Mayer, Mrs Vana, and now Mrs Gamon, and I welcome her warmly. First of all, Mrs Klubobfrau Meinl-Reisinger, I can give her the floor. She knows: 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6706	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers! Does that look like Europe? “Is this Europe?” – These are the words of Milad from the short documentation “A Short Story of Moria” by Joko and Klaas. I looked at this documentation yesterday, and I hardly endured it. It's unbearable what you see there. It was broadcast a few days ago. In these 15 minutes of the film you will see pictures that you should not at least watch with children. I can assure you that if you have perhaps managed to close your eyes before what is happening there in Moria, you will no longer have the opportunity to close your eyes. It becomes visible and noticeable what thousands of people there experience every day, and of course it has been significantly intensified by the fire again. One sees in the film how women, men, children in boats are pushed off the Greek Coast Guard, the engine is ruined and they are dragged out to the open sea and then left there. They are then rescued from the Turkish seaguard, but there the children are already on the boat for three days without water. You can see women, men and children in plastic plans on earth – the plastic plans are held together helpfully – and completely broken sanitary facilities. This camp is aimed at 3,000 people – 13,000 people are there. You can see the fire and you can see how people flee. You can see how the police shoot the people at once with tear gas, fight them, and how children get the tear gas. Is that Europe? Does that look like Europe? – Mr Bundeskanzler, you said in a video that these terrible pictures do not leave anyone cold, but that they do other refugee camps in other parts of the world remembered. But this camp is not in other parts of the world, this camp is in Europe. It is in the middle of Europe, in the continent, which is a community of values in which we have committed ourselves to human dignity and human rights. This is our European soil! [[We welcome the NEOS and the representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] They said in the video, if you help now, a new wave like 2015. - That's unfair. But above all, it says one thing, namely, that you use these people there quite consciously as human shields, as a deterrent scenario, so that other people do not come because otherwise this pull effect would occur – you do not talk about push effects. That is, in the Europe of 2020 we use people, including children, and their fates as a deterrent scenario for other people. What does this have to do with human dignity and our understanding of human dignity, ladies and gentlemen? [[It was in favour of NEOS and SPÖ, as well as MEPs of the Greens.]] Today, the Commission is going to make a proposal that will make it an excuse – and the German Presidency is also doing so – that there is a new solution to a common European asylum system, which you are supposed to want too. But what are you doing? – You are already on the line: EU policy has failed! - Yes, to you, to your blockade. [[Consistency with NEOS and SPÖ as well as with the Abg. Goddamn it.]] They argue that it would be necessary to enforce the small countries against the domination of the great, and mention – which is right – that Austria has made a very big contribution in the refugee crisis in 2015. What is this argument? Is it not precisely in the interest of the small countries that have made such a contribution that all act in solidarity that they are committed to the fact that all countries also take over burdens and burdens and not just a Cherrypicking? – This is not an argument, Chancellor, and it is unbearable if you continue to block a European refugee policy. [[Consistency with NEOS and SPÖ as well as with the Abg. Blimlinger.]] No, Europe does not look like that – not my Europe! This is a shame, and we have been pointing it out for many, many months. This is particularly important to me now: We as NEOS have been pointing out since March, but already before, quite massively since the outbreak of Corona week after week, what conditions are there and what will happen there. A good policy, a forward-looking policy does not act or react when something happens, but it sees nothing happening. They have looked away for months, closed their eyes for months, the head in the sense of: If it's not in our newspapers, then maybe it doesn't exist at all!, stuck in the sand. But the problem is there, this problem needs to be solved, and it is definitely not solved by continuing to block a common European path. This also has to do with leadership – leadership is the subject that is increasingly questionable, even in this corona crisis – but it also has to do with how Austria positions itself in Europe. Instead, we have heard sentences like Mr Schallenberg's: Whenever something happens, there is a “scream by distribution. ” – This is cynicism and, in my view, an immense prepotence when you take different views, different political opinions than “screams”. [[It was in favour of NEOS and SPÖ, as well as MEPs of the Greens.]] You can't save everyone – no, we can't – it's just a "symbol policy". – The green government partner’s answer was that it was cynical, but nothing happened. One could certainly talk about how much the greens have already become a climber in many areas. I would also like to thank my colleague, Mr Yannick Shetty, who has drawn attention to the fact that so little has been done so far. Climate protection has happened that one cannot justify otherwise throwing all the values overboard. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But I do not want to continue this green bashing now, but I address myself very consciously to the ÖVP: This “screaming after distribution” according to a common European path, which also includes a solidarity component, does not come from left-left good people, that comes from the middle of politics, from the middle of society. It's your CSU college Horst Seehofer, who said he was disappointed by Austria: “I am disappointed by the attitude of our Austrian neighbours to take up a manageable number of vulnerable people” – it is about children, it is about families – “not to participate in Greece.” – He also says: "In such a situation, Europe must show closeness. If we do nothing, we strengthen the political margins." I'm convinced he's right. This is a policy of the centre looking for solutions and not constantly keeping the problems large. It is a policy of the middle that puts humanity and empathy in the foreground. It's a policy of the middle that says: We can do something. – It is a policy of the middle, the statements that it says are purely symbolic policy, because – and I tell you that again with regard to this video “A Short Story of Moria” – for these 100 children or families that we have seen there, which we can help, for whom many people in Austria are willing to make a contribution, is not a symbol policy. It's about their lives, it's about their future, and it's about their chances. Take a heart, give yourself a back and we'll get these kids and families from Moria! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6824	Mr Bundeskanzler is speaking on behalf of the European Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6845	Mr President. Minister of the Interior! Infrastructural, Climate and Environmental Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would actually have had a prepared speech to describe, from our point of view, the situation in Europe as regards migration and asylum, but, Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, perhaps, after this speech, you allow me to address a few points that you have referred to, quite apart from what I might have said in basic statements. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Reisinger]] I would like to begin with a general point: I think it is perfectly appropriate to be emotional, if one sees the suffering of people in Moria, in Greece, on Lesbos, it is perfectly right to have emotions with those people who are incredibly suffering, but I would already wish that, despite these rightly existing emotions in the discussion of this political question in Austria, we would find a material and respectful way of dealing with each other. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] I do not believe that constantly working with emotions, without facts, that the constant attempt to divide into good and evil, in right and wrong, in human and inhumane, pushes, makes a positive contribution to our debate culture in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kucharovich: Always the same bitch! Always!]] [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: Unmistakable...!]] I can only tell you that I respect your view of things to 100 percent. We live in a pluralist democracy. We live in a diverse Europe under the motto: ‘In diversity of mind’. If I may, I would now like to give you my view of things on some of the points you have raised: The first is, you're perfectly right that there's incredible suffering on Lesbos, specifically in the Moria refugee camp, and you're perfectly right that these pictures, when you see them, don't leave anyone cold. I can only tell you that it's even worse if you don't see it on TV or in the newspaper, but if you personally experience it. As a foreign minister, I have seen various trips in the context of development cooperation, humanitarian aid, countless people and inconceivable suffering. We have not only 13 000 people from the Moria refugee camp, we have about 50,000 people in Greece, we have about 50,000 people in the Balkans, we have 3.5 million refugees in Turkey and we have a much larger number in Syria, Iraq and its neighbouring countries. Depending on the calculations, we have between 70 and 100 million refugees worldwide. I'm saving you stories about street children in Bucharest, who, for example, sniff glue and live partly in sewerage. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: You told me a few times anyway! That's nothing new!]] What are we doing there? – We do not include them all, but Austria has created a highly successful project, namely Concordia. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I have experienced countless suffering in Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, in Africa from Syrian refugees. Come on. You once with me to Somaliland or elsewhere: Thousands of people in inconceivable poverty, partially malnourished, terrible hygienic conditions. If you see this, ladies and gentlemen, one thing is clear: We definitely can't take up all the people! But we want to help, and the right answer is the help on the spot from my point of view. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] I am also grateful to the coalition partner in this context for the joint action on the foreign disaster fund. When I was Foreign Minister, we still fought to increase the foreign disaster fund from EUR 5 million to EUR 10 million. Today, the foreign disaster fund is worth 50 million euros. I am also proud that Austria, as one of the first countries, has supplied relief goods to Greece, namely quarters for 2,000 people. They can be accommodated there in winter and supplied neatly, decently. Thank you very much to the Minister of the Interior, who was one of the first to start such an action and also delivered the supplies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The second point: You said Austria is doing too little. In recent days others have words like: Austria does nothing at all!, Austria does not pick up anyone!, used. I would also like to point out the following figures: Over the last five years, Austria has absorbed over 200 000 people. We are the country in Europe which is the third most heavily burdened. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: That is why it is in the interest of Austria that we proceed Europeanally!]] We are the country in Europe which, after Sweden, has taken up the second most children. This year alone, we have issued 3 700 children in the first eight months of this year alone. This means that 3,700 children have found protection in Austria alone this year. [[Abg. Kucharovich: Those who have been waiting for decisions for years! For years!]] Please forgive me, if I hear from other countries that they have two, four, or 16 children, I don't think: Unbelievable what they do! – Austria has done more than the mass of all other countries, and we should first integrate those who are already here before we discuss new recordings. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: I said!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What also irritates me a lot in this context is the attempt to present it as if Austria were blocking the European line. They have said that we are guilty of the failure of European policy, we are opposed to a European solution. [[Inter-calls at the NEOS.]] Do you know this if you have the impression that a debate is different in Austria than in the rest of the world and in the rest of Europe? You rightly quote what Germany is doing, but I may give you a bigger European overview here: It is perfectly true that Germany has agreed to take 400 children in a first step together with other countries, and then has increased to 1,500 refugees – who are to be admitted to Germany – in a first step. In this first step, the inclusion of 400 – one of my opinion relatively small number, when comparing what Austria has done – nine other countries have agreed to participate. 17 countries have said that they do not participate, including socially democratically-led countries such as Denmark and Sweden – the country, which has always stood for the unlimited inclusion in Europe, has not participated in this German programme –; 17 countries that have not participated and 10 countries that participate In a second step, Germany has declared that it is increased to 1,500 refugees, which one receives. Do you know how many other countries have agreed to follow and increase this path as well? - I don't know any. [[Abg. Meil-Risinger: What is this argument?]] Perhaps you have other information, but according to my information, 26 countries in the European Union have said, no, they don't get up, they won't take people in the same number as Germany. This means that, I believe, we should not talk about Austria being isolated. We are, in our line, part of the absolute majority in the European Union. What bothers me is that the internal European debate in Austria is not mentioned. What irritates me a lot in Austria, at national level, is how much politicians of the People's Party are insulted for their line here, with how much hatred we have to fight on the Internet, what statements there are there from some politicians. Social democracy has said that our actions are unworthy of human beings. [[Abg. Scherak: Your own people!]] Prof. Tashner was attacked yesterday at a committee meeting, and it was said that he was personally disappointed. As head of state Doskozil did not take up refugees when he said he would not want to take over people from Moria, there were no longer these words from the social democracy side at once. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now, one last, but I believe, is a long-term important point, namely, what the European asylum system, like this common European path we want, should look like – this is a point that I think should make considerate: Not only did more than one million people come to Europe in 2015 and there was an overload in Central Europe, but thousands of people in the Mediterranean also drowned in 2015. We have always fought this system, and thanks to God at some point also the majority in the European Union have been convinced that it is unworthy for Europe to go on a path that leads to the Mediterranean becoming a mass grave. European policy has changed: towards external border protection, towards the fight against the tractors, towards assistance on the ground instead of unlimited reception in Central Europe. There should already be one to think, Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, when Greek authorities and Greek officials say over and over again: If you take men, think of where! Is it right to include people from Lesbos, or does this only cause those who remain behind Lesbos to develop an incredible frustration there and, in some cases, try violently to break through to Central Europe? [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: I understand! I totally understand!]] Does this not mean that even more people from Turkey and other countries are on their way to Lesbos and then drown on their way to Europe in the Mediterranean? I can only say to you, ladies and gentlemen: I support a European path, but what I certainly will not support in this life is a European path that leads to people being lured into Europe under false ideas, the tractors increasingly deserve and countless people drown on their way to Central Europe. This is a way that we will definitely not support.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7064	Mr Lopatka is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). [[The accompaniment continues.]] – Mr Lopatka is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7091	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Federal Minister! I would like to thank the Federal Chancellor very much for this clear attitude. [[Call the FPÖ:We too!]] In these uncertain times in which we live, people need clear positions. The Austrian Federal Government has a line there, and it is very important not to go straight out of the emotion – because then you come to a symbolic policy – but clear and long-term in the interest of all those concerned, the refugees, but also the people who live here, to make the decisions. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The NEOS have called for: “Support a European asylum system [...], Federal Chancellor!” – Ladies and gentlemen, we have a European asylum system, the so-called Dublin III procedure. At the latest since 2015, however, we know that this does not work – and colleague Dziedzic was there when we had a conversation with the Commissioner responsible for some time -: In my opinion, the European Commission has done far too little work on this – five years have passed since – in order to find a better solution. However, it is not possible to make the Austrian Federal Government, our Minister of the Interior or our Federal Chancellor responsible for this. There is a clear division of tasks – and the Commission is primarily responsible for European solutions. Their task is also to get a better solution on this issue – together with the national states. This is not the task of the Austrian Federal Government. [[Call to the FPÖ: What did Mr Karas do?]] Second point: Your accusation, ladies and gentlemen of the NEOS, really goes empty. You're talking about blockade. We are the third most heavily burdened across Europe – the Federal Chancellor has mentioned it! Only Sweden and Germany have done more in this regard. And because now, in connection with Moria, the minors, children are in the foreground: In recent years, Austria has done far, far more than Germany! One must say that already in this context, and I do not understand this self-discipline of NEOS. [[Abg. Loacker:... prove?]] [[Abg. Scherak: “self-discipline”...?- Oh, my God!]] – Well, the self-discipline as far as Austria is concerned. They're jestering Austria! We should all point out the achievements of Austria! This wouldn't be bad for NEOS either, Mr. Scherak. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] To provide assistance on the ground – in addition to what we are doing here in the country – faster and to a greater extent than the others, that is for me Christian-social policy! What we do is Christian-social policy: help quickly and quickly on the spot; Greece, but also the refugees on Lesbos. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We're just talking about Moria. Moria burned 14 days ago. Last weekend the second time was tried to set a fire in the Vathy refugee camp on Samos. If the school does, then others will try to do so in Vial on Chios. [[New call of the abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] Thousands of refugees live there too. It is therefore not necessary to follow such an approach. What do I mean by that? – The Federal Chancellor has referred to it: To this day, 16 of the EU Member States have chosen the way of Austria. The Federal Chancellor mentioned Sweden and Denmark, and also in Spain, where social democrats are ruling, the same action has been taken that Germany has not been followed. The NEOS – I hope you haven't forgotten – also have sister parties within the ALDE: In the Czech Republic a sister party is ruling from you, in Estonia. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Unfortunately!]] [[further calls at the NEOS:Leider!]] Here too, the way you want has not gone. In Austria, too, seven of the nine heads of state support the attitude of the Federal Government, and after all, the SPÖ chairmen are speaking! The most successful social-democratic politician at national level, and this is Hans Peter Doskozil, has clearly said that he supports the line of the Federal Government. Even President of the Leyen, in her speech last week in Strasbourg, warned that she meant: “As we all know, the 2015 migration crisis has led to serious distortions between Member States – some wounds have not been healed to this day.” Let's do everything so that we don't make the 2015 mistake again! We want strong EU external border protection, effective fight against tow crime. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: We too! That's what we're demanding.]] This is just as important as the integration of the people who came to us. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: We demand that too!]] That's not a symbolic policy with the big moral deal you're always on the go with.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7249	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7264	We do not take the morale in our hands, we do responsible politics, just as German Chancellors briefly outlined.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7292	Mr Rendi-Wagner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7313	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Minister! Dear High House and Dear Ladies and Gentlemen! Yes, Federal Chancellor, I watched you two weeks ago, listened, I saw the video, and I wonder: How arrogant, how arrogant can one be to teach us, to explain to us Europe, to explain and to suggest that emotionality is the opposite of reality? [[Complementary by the SPÖ and by Mr El-Nagashi and Mr Brandtätter]] – I can tell you one thing: I am proud to have emotions and values, because that makes us human, and humanity and humanity are the basis of our European system of values. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Fireplaces.]] The clubwoman of NEOS has described the situation on Moria very impressively. Two weeks after the fire, the situation there is not much better, the conditions are still devastating: Children's sleeping, they're in the dirt. Yes, and all of this is happening in the middle of our Europe, a few hours away from Vienna. The fires of Moria make it clear – that is clear – that they are a magnifying glass: the failure of Europe in refugee policy. Only – we have to be so honest –: Among Europe is Austria, and with it it is also a failure of the Austrian Federal Government. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Fireplaces.]] [[Federal Chancellor Kurz: What does Doskozil say?]] What, Mr Bundeskanzler, has the Austrian Federal Government, under your leadership, actually done in the last three years to improve the situation? What have you done to develop a single, well-functioning European asylum system, to establish procedural centres at the EU's external borders with UNHCR standards? What have you done to fight the causes of escape permanently – that would be the dish? – Nothing, much valued Ladies and gentlemen, nothing! [[Abg. Wögerer: The Doskozil sees this differently!]] [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] And why not? – That is not why some European political movements would be deprived of the political ground if refugee causes were to be combated if the system worked well and better – for then refugees can no longer be made an enemy in the daily political debate, because then, out of the suffering of children, one can no longer beat political capital. Yes, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is happening right now, in the middle of Austria! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Fireplaces.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: What does the Doskozil say about this?]] [[Abg. Kickl: A socialist world revolution has rarely triggered anything good!]] One could now go here as the Austrian Federal Government and say: Yes, we are contributing to a functioning EU migration system, yes, now it is necessary, at the latest, but at the same time – and this does not exclude the other – we are making our contribution at the humanitarian level by supporting an emergency action for the weakest of the weak and, together with other European countries, 100, 200, whether it frees 500 children from this misery! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is not us alone, it is not only the NEOS and the SPÖ that represent this view, there are also hundreds of mayors, many from the ÖVP, Mr Wöginger, who would take children from Moria. [[Abg. Wöginger: What does the Doskozil say about it? What does the head of state in Burgenland say?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] All these people have no symbolic policy, because saving children is never a symbol policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Rather, it is cowardly from the Federal Government to hide behind flakes such as sweating factors, dehumanizing children, entemorationalizing the subject. [[Abg. Wöginger: Doskozil is coward?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: In Burgenland the children are dehumanized!]] That is embarrassing and that is unworthy, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Bundeskanzler, I remember that two years ago you reported a visit to Israel. At that time, they described very touching conversations with survivors of the Holocaust, Austrians, today 90 years old. One cannot compare the situation in Moria with the Holocaust, nothing is comparable, but: [[Call the ÖVP: I think so too!]] [[Federal Chancellor Kurz: I believe so too!]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] Do you know how old these survivors were in 1939? – They were children and young people, and at that time as today: Children are children, Mr. Federal Chancellor! [[Prolonged condolences with the SPÖ and congratulations with representatives of the NEOS.]] If all the Heads of Government had thought in 1939 as you do today, you would not have been able to hold these talks in Tel Aviv two years ago. [[Abg. Haubner: That's absurd!]] [[Abg. Martin Graf:... yes impoverished!]] [[Further calls at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] They promised responsibility for the present and the future. Mr. Federal Chancellor, the present name is Moria. [[Abg. Wöginger: Explain this to the Doskozil!]] Keep your promises! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7570	The next speaker was Georg Mayer, a member of the European Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7607	Madam President. Appreciate High House! Appreciate members of the government! Of course, the pictures we all saw are tragic, and the pictures are, of course, terrifying. Mrs Rendi-Wagner, this European hour is coming from you, and you have mentioned a video. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] I could also tell you about videos I saw, but I don't, because then you would finally call me a populist, and we don't want to. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: (the hand lifting) Hello, it was me! I'm not Rendi-Wagner!]] - Where are you? – Ah, here, excuse me, Mrs. Meinl-Risinger! So there are other videos, Mrs Colleague, that I am not going to play for you now. [[New call of the abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] Whoever was this fire problem in Greece, at least this human tragedy – I think we can agree on this common denominator – also has an objective responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, there is also political responsibility. Evil tongues already claim that this fire attack may also have something to do with the new migration pact to be presented today. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Ah, the CDU was it?! The CDU was!]] Of course, it could be assumed that a certain influence should be taken. Maybe you'll think about it. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: The CDU was it!]] I'm not accusing anyone here. I don't know who lit this camp any more than you know, but there are some chains of evidence going in a certain direction. The solution to the problem, Mrs Colleague, can and will not be the answer to some of the questions you are asking for. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Eh not!]] This is probably more deliberately naïve and even illegal, Mrs Colleague. The topic of refugees has been in discussion since 2015. It is not the first time you have discussed this, it is not the first time we have discussed it in the European Parliament. There are legal provisions in force, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Lopatka said: It shall apply to Dublin III. This is valid EU law, but it has been trampled with feet since 2015, which has simply not been implemented since 2015. What kind of arbitrary action is that? But your very polemic and populist formulation, the theme of this European hour, is also appropriate, because it says: “Save the children [...], Federal Chancellor!” “Children are children”, we have heard three times. [[Abg. Lightenness: That's the way it is!]] But you are, I believe, less concerned with these 350 children, but it is you – and I say this now and that I am thinking of you – about this concerted action throughout Western Europe: [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Super!]] We have room! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lightenness: Now not even the ÖVP claps!]] We have room! – This is an action played out by the German Bundestag throughout Western Europe in connection with these terrible fires in Greece. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: That's so crazy what you're talking about!]] What is that supposed to mean – we have space –? What is that supposed to be – we have space – called, dear colleagues? Who says we have room? Are you saying we have room? Say a few green Hansels that we have a place in Europe, dear colleagues? So that's probably a very arrogant access.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7764	Mr President, I would ask you not to use such expressions in the Austrian Parliament. I think you know what I mean. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl:... you understand!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] You can continue now.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7803	In any case, it is a fatal sign that is sent forth with it. In the end, you bear the political responsibility for this Greek tragedy, you have to answer this Greek fire by these signs you send out. Just say that so clearly! Tell me how you really want it! We want to take everyone, regardless of whether asylum law contradicts or not, whether applicable EU law contradicts, rules do not matter to us. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: Oijoyoijoij!]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of SPÖ, Greens and NEOS]] [[New call for tender Meinl-Reisinger]] – You don't care about the rules, Mrs. Colleague. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: Pfuuh!]] Only genuine protection of the EU's external borders is an effective signal and a political signal. At the end, 60 percent of the people in Austria are opposed to taking up these refugees from Moria because they know that this will simply not solve the problem, the situation is only intensifying. The situation on Lesbos has been known for years. 3 billion euros have been flown to Greece and sluggished without helping anyone there. Now, of course, it's going to be easy for tugs, now it's for them and the NGOs that help them to get new business, because now many new refugees are getting on the way. The political responsibility lies with those who say: We have room! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] The political responsibility for the next people drowning in the Mediterranean is also with those who are constantly saying: We have room, without thinking about the real consequences. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7877	Next speaker: Mr Michel Reimon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7899	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Mayer, this is a current European hour of NEOS and not the SPÖ. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger:... double names!]] They confuse the Mienl-Reisingers and Rendi-Wagners. I know they are both women with double names, but if you come from Brussels to explain the Austrian position to us, you should at least know in Austrian politics that you know the opposition tips before you tell us something. [[Abg. Kickl: After you're worried!]] [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] Commissioner for the Interior Johansson will present an asylum and migration pact today. She said: “Moria is not normal, but migration is normal.” – I wish she was right with this sentence, but Moria has been normal in the European Union for years, for many years. It is also known what has gone down there, not only since the flames, not only since the fires. We have often discussed this in the European Parliament in recent years. It was a scandal, it's a scandal, and there are several guilty. It must also be said that there are 13 000 in a camp for 3,000 people. It is not the rapid growth of the camp; it was also the intention of the Greek government to put pressure on other European governments. In this game between these governments this need has arisen, and for years nothing has been done about it. [[Abg. Kickl: What are you doing?]] It will now be necessary to change that. Hopefully there is now the necessary pressure. It is therefore important to us in the emergency aid we have decided as a coalition that this cannot be a reconstruction of the same camp. We are now sending down help to help homeless people to do this quickly to get people out of this most severe distress, but there can be no reconstruction of the Moria camp, for which there can be no European consent. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would particularly like to highlight one aspect of the package we have decided on, so that it does not go down completely: We have increased the foreign disaster fund to 50 million euros. This originally amounted to EUR 5 million and EUR 15 million when we started the government negotiations. That helps all over the world. We should not close our eyes even before the crisis in Yemen, before the emergency in Lebanon, before the emergency in Syria. There too we will help a multiple of what Austria has done in recent years, but: You can't count that against each other. You can't say: We are now helping in Yemen or Lebanon and closing our eyes to Moria. You can't count fates against each other, and we won't. We have a dissent in this coalition about how we deal with Moria, with the children. We Greens are clearly in favour of saving people from there, and I do not want to set myself on a number now and not only on children. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I do not like metaphors in politics, but there is one who has touched me very much in this discussion. On a beach, in the evening, millions of starfish are washed in, a family is going for a walk. The little child, the daughter, walks to a starfish, carries him into the water, and the father says: But it's not worth anything, it's millions and that's just the one! – The child says: But that's it. I am referring to this argument: We can't take everyone, and it's no use taking 100!, trying to look one of these kids in the eye and say: I can't help you because I can't help everyone! – It doesn’t do human beings when he’s in front of it! [[Abg. Kickl: That is what your group is doing now.]] I can't do that! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If we can save only 100, we'll only save 100. I would also like to say quite clearly what I think is not going to do, namely to act as if this were just a matter of fact, in which two equal positions are next to each other, which can be considered objectively. This can be done in the design of a 1-2-3 ticket, which can be done in the design of a plastic tax, on the question of property tax yes or no. But whether to save or not to save children is a fundamental question, and there are not both positions morally equivalent, in character equivalent, or politically equivalent in any other form. This discussion cannot be taken up in this form. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is a question of value and principle. We may find a way out at the European level; a new pact will be presented today at 12 noon. A common European solution will be sought. I am very sure today that this will not be green, will not be 100% contained in the green programme, but we will fight for a pragmatic solution that will change and make something better. That is what we are here for and will stand for, and we are now fighting for it in this situation. Finally, this migration pact must be a little better, there must be legal ways to go to Europe, there must be help on the ground, there must be help here and there must be a better need for the most difficult situations there. ‘Moria is not normal, but migration is normal’: There we should stand in two, three years without people suffering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8011	Next speaker: Mrs Claudia Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8036	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! As many have said, we have known for years how the states in Greek refugee camps are. Now we have known for two weeks how the current situation is in Moria, and some watch unmoved as families, people, children in the woods, in dirt, on the street house and sleep. Since today, we have the chance to rewrite this story for the future instead of rewriting it. We have the opportunity to change something in European policy. What we have been able to read so far about what the Commission will present today in terms of reform for European asylum is an attempt to prevent a Moria in the future. It is certainly not exactly what we NEOS introduce us, namely a holistic access, but it is a beginning. We have the obligation to discuss constructively with the public now about how we can really address this challenge in such a way that we can prevent a Moria in the future. With regard to what Klubobfrau Meinl-Reisinger mentioned, which prevents Austria, it has not only been a question of preventing us from saving children from Moria, but also of not being involved in putting a European migration and asylum system on good feet. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and MEPs of the Greens.]] The only thing to be heard in the Austrian media today was that the Federal Government – the Interior Minister and the Federal Chancellor – says: Distribution failed! - That's it! That's the only thing we've heard so far. What are you doing? This is a political task, that is capitulation before reality. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It's a naughtiness, it's domestic, cynical plaything, it's a game with fate, with the lives of people who depend on us and a proper reform of the European migration and asylum system. That's it! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and MEPs of the Greens.]] To stand down as if migration were like fleeing something you can do, that is to refuse reality! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The ÖVP has already successfully served many things in the past and now also gives the promise: We're going to get it somehow, we're gonna sit down! – But this is not our responsibility in politics! The reality is as follows: Migration will accompany us, the generation after us, generations after them. Escape will accompany us, war, climate change, environmental disasters. This is an issue that we need to deal with. We must find a way to cope with acute crises, but we must also find a way to deal with migration normally in the long term. We can't pretend that's going to happen to us. In this way we refuse to deal with a major task in politics, namely to deal with reality. I would also like to talk about how young people, many who write to me, now that Austria is not involved in this situation in bringing people from Greek islands, saving them, saving children. They are horrified at the fact that these are the European values which are being respected here, even here in this House, where we often talk about: What is propriety? What should we do as Europeans? What are our values? If we often talk to the raised index finger about other countries and find that they do not deal with values properly, we also need to talk about how we deal with our values. As a nation, we were once proud to help others. I grew up on TV with the permanent loop of neighbor in distress. As a nation, we were once proud to give others out of the war a chance to change their lives to give children a perspective on a life. As a nation, we were proud to give others the chance to become Austrians as well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] As a nation, we were once proud to live diversity. In the past, however, we were always proud to save children. So I grew up, and many young people wonder: Where did this Austria go at the ÖVP? [[We welcome the NEOS and the representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] There must be no more Moria in the future, there must be no more misery camps and there must be no more self-achievement of European values! We must work towards a European asylum and migration system that gives these values an opportunity and gives the children of Moria a chance. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8136	Next speaker: Mr Karl Mahrer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8168	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! The Federal Ministers! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start with a little bit of trouble. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] I am very concerned about the statements made by Clubobfrau Rendi-Wagner. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: I don't think that's gonna happen anymore!]] Mrs. Klubobfrau, I guess You personally really, but I think that a red line has now been crossed in your case, because if you make this Federal Government and Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz a closeness or a connection to 1939 and to the times of the Holocaust, then I think this is unworthy of a club woman and I think this is unworthy of the Austrian Parliament! [[Abg. Lightenness: Why does this distress not come over at all?]] [[Call the SPÖ: Don't have them!]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Rendi-Wagner]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I wonder, What is Doskozil – who I warmly greet if he looks at – doing in the Burgenland? [[Abg. Lightenness: What is this bad speech?]] Captain Doskozil will be amazed! And do you know why he's wondering? – Because he thinks that and thinks what the majority of Austrians think and think, because he thinks our way, not to carry out any refugee distribution, but to put in place measures that really help, understand and also carry out. Do you know why he does that? – Because he was just like me in 2015 when pictures were created at our borders, which we no longer want to see for our lives. That's why he does, and that's why I understand him very well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, of course, it also agrees with us a lot: For example, we agree that we are all affected by the images from Lesbos that we have seen – we are completely in agreement. [[Abg. Lightness: Why don't I believe that?]] We also agree that we all want to help people. The question is just how we do it. There is a clear plan on this from our side, namely: not a distribution of people who are on the run or want to improve their living conditions across Europe, but a clear system that ensures what we really need in the long term. [[Abg. Lightenness: I don't believe that!]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] And what do we need in the long run? [[Call:Yes, what]] If we want to give people a perspective, we need three points in the long term: We need the creation of decent conditions in the countries of origin, and I mean a completely new development aid with economic policy, education policy and health policy. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Secondly, we need help on the ground, but not only by talking about it, but, as this Federal Government has done now and has implemented the interior minister Karl Nehammer himself by bringing 55 tons of supplies to Greece within a few days. – Thanks to our Federal Government and Minister of the Interior Nehammer! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Between calls at the SPÖ and the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, we need as effective a European border protection as possible, and that very quickly – much faster than it has been done so far. Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz has drilled thick boards in Europe, but I expect and hope that the statements of the European Commission will be a breakthrough in the right direction today. [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Abg. Meinl-Reisinger]] One thing is clear, ladies and gentlemen: It is only when we manage to implement these points that I have spoken of, namely, decent conditions in the countries of origin, actual rapid aid on the ground, effective European border protection and also controlled immigration to meet the needs of the Republic of Austria, that only if we do so, ladies and gentlemen, do we prevent such images that hurt us all: the images of refugees and desperate children, and then we also give millions of people the opportunity to build up and live there in their countries of origin. Ladies and gentlemen! Our goal should not be a short-sighted symbol policy, but a long-term aid to the people of the world – and that is many millions who hope and fear for a new future; we must achieve that. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8375	Next speaker: Mr Harald Tür. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8396	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate members of the government! We are discussing a humanitarian disaster here. After the fire, all people in Moria camp lost their homes, their very modest stay, their primitive barracks or their small tent – 13,000 people in the forest, sleeping on the damp ground. The SPÖ is calling for clear and rapid help here! [[Abg. Kickl: The whole SPÖ?]] If measures were to be taken, that should have happened two to three years ago, not just now. The deadline has been rejected by Mr Pamela Rendi-Wagner on this point – no immediate action will be taken! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, you say that we cannot all take up. They shudder behind stands, Mr. Bundeskanzler. 100 percent of the Austrians will agree if you say: We can't record everyone. They say: I closed the Balkan route. – This is a stand, Mr. Federal Chancellor. These sentences do not help us in the specific situation. I would even say, Federal Chancellor, that's cold fast, that's superfluous, it's not human! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, you say: We can't record everyone. - It's not about everyone! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It is not a refugee policy, it is a very concrete humanitarian aid for, for example, 100 children, as the mayor of Vienna Michael Ludwig has explained, who is also willing to do something. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl:... but... says something else!]] We say: Let's get kids out of Moria, out of this inferno, out of this hell! And you say: We can't record everyone. - That's a sign of poverty. [[Call to the ÖVP:... she's taking up the Burgenland?]] The Greens and the ÖVP dropped the deadline request – so it looks like concrete help, so humanitarian aid certainly does not look like. The question is: Does the EU make enough? Are the measures of the European Union effective? Mr Bundeskanzler, you were also active or acting during the EU Presidency, had a certain responsibility. Has there been concrete proposals at that time to improve the situation of the 13 000 desperate people in Moria? - No, there was nothing. Very, very important, secure external borders in Europe: During your EU Presidency, has there been concrete measures for secure external borders in Europe that they are better protected, better controlled? [[Calls:No]] No, no, no, De facto, the subject of the secure external borders in Europe was dropped to 2024. The Austrian Presidency has acted inadvertently and incompetently. Let's take a look beyond the Austrian edge of the plate; sometimes a look at Munich, after Bavaria! There the CSU sits, and Federal Chancellor Kurz has declared the CSU to be particularly close friends of Austria and the ÖVP. [[Call the ÖVP: What you know!]] Well, how do these friends of the CSU see the rigid attitude of the ÖVP and the Greens? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The CSU head Markus Söder expects the Austrian government to “be a little bit more cordial”. [[Call to the ÖVP: What does he expect?]] Söder is charming, because he means a little more humanity, Söder is charming, because he means a little more charity. [[Abg. Hörl:... is also charming!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Very concrete: Interior Minister Seehofer makes quite specific offers on how many families and children can be brought to Germany. [[Abg. Kickl: That's just a discounted game!]] I'm not surprised that the short ÖVP overtakes the CSU on the right. The ÖVP was not social. She was once Christian, now the ÖVP is no longer Christian. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Mr Melchior and Mr Ottenschlager.]] Now the Greens overtake the CSU on the right. The Greens were never explicitly Christian, but now they are no longer social and no longer humanitarian. On the topic of charity: Love of neighbor is a beautiful one, perhaps the most beautiful Christian virtue. Love of neighbor, however, is more than a Christian virtue – love of neighbor is actually the foundation of being a Christian. The Austrian Bishops' Conference says that the measures now being put on the ground are too few. This is what the Austrian – the Catholic – Bishops' Conference says. And the evangelical deacony believes that Moria has become the epitome of the failure of European refugee policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8570	You now have to put the final sentence, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8586	The SPÖ here has a clear attitude, an attitude of humanity, charity. [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP.]] Specific proposals are on the table, including the mayor of Vienna: Let's get 100 children from Moria, from the mud, from Inferno to Vienna!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8631	The next item is Mrs Petra Steger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8655	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mr. Federal Chancellor! High house! After the previous course of the debate, there is probably no other conclusion than that most of you seem to have learned nothing from the 2015 migration crisis. At that time, the red and black Federal Government together with the left and also, you must not forget, with then Foreign Minister Sebastian Kurz in its essential role, completely failed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One only remembers statements such as “We do this” and: The average immigrant is more intelligent than the average Austrian. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] We will not forget this sentence, Mr Kurz. I thought you would have understood what damage you did at the time, and I would have heard that, unfortunately, we have only limited resources and opportunities and, unfortunately, cannot help everyone – especially not, ladies and gentlemen, in the worst health and economic crisis in the Second Republic. Skill Not at least now, when the state is so terrible, do you care about the interests of your own population instead of those of the whole world? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] No, ladies and gentlemen, apparently you can't. Most have learned nothing about it. Even today, they are coming back here and coming with the moral culprit that only children from Moria are to be taken in – well knowing that it is questionable whether they are children at all, because many indicate something wrong; well, knowing that it is questionable whether they are refugees at all, because the procedures are not yet completed; well, knowing that they not only let in a few children, but then, thanks to the EMRK, the whole family is still with them; well, knowing that they are producing a huge pull effect; and probably knowing that they were the people themselves who burned off their tents, ladies and gentlemen. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I really have to ask everyone who asks this: Is this your form of politics now? Is this now the new method of being blackmailed that you can force the way to Austria with crimes? Insert What You're there for an example, aren't you? If your camps are in contact, and you can continue to Germany and Austria, or, as the ÖVP has done, do we transfer more money?- Oh, my God! – We have already seen the consequences. Merkel stood up after the fire and said: We take up refugees; next, the next refugee camp has already burned on Samos. Thanks to God, the fire could quickly be removed again. But if you don't listen to us, at least you'll listen to Greece, which itself asked you not to take refugees from Moria. We say clearly and clearly: Violence must not be rewarded! If you give it now, the next refugee camps will burn, and then you will be responsible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To be honest, I would also like to say that if there were at last a little more material discussion. They make themselves up and always claim that anyone who is against the reception of refugees or now children of Moria is an unhuman, is cruel or perhaps even worse. We have already heard comparisons with National Socialism today. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] In an ideal world there are unlimited resources, yes, then you can help everyone. Yeah, then everything is possible. But we don't have that. You finally need to learn to reconcile your idealism and your kindness with reality, otherwise it won't work. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They always talk about solidarity. I have to ask you: What about solidarity with our own people? We have a covid crisis. In the largest health and economic crisis in the Second Republic, in which many people are without work, standing before nothing to fear their existence, we need all resources in our own country. It's supposed to be like: No way! If everyone closes borders everywhere, limits freedoms, then, logically, the asylum system would have to be temporarily suspended at that time, because it is irresponsible to burden Austria and the European Union even more in such a crisis. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the problem in Moria is not the distribution, as it demands the EU again in the current migration debate, but the return. 87 percent of the migrants in Greece are illegal there. [[Abg. Ernst-Dziedzic: How do you know that?]] It is therefore high time that the EU no longer cared about the distribution of refugees, but about the return of illegal migrants and effective external border protection. Then there would be no conditions like in Moria, ladies and gentlemen. Now we are coming to the EU Migration Pact, which is being discussed at the level of the European Union. Now it's about refugee distribution. There, of course, it is now said to be flexible solidarity, because in the future it is necessary to punish those who refuse to take up refugees. However, this does not change the fact that the pull effect is further enhanced. At the heart of the issue is that the EU is increasingly seeking to expand its competences. We are saying a clear no, and I can hear the ÖVP crasher now.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8752	Next speaker: Mrs Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8773	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen. Should Austria record people from Moria? - Yes. Is there a majority here in the House for this? - No, I don't. [[Abg. Kickl: There's nothing to do!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Luke Hammer.]] [[Further calls of the Abg. Kickl.]] Will, yes, we have to fight for this majority? - Yes. And why? Because I am convinced that there is this majority in the population, but at the moment there is no precipitation of the people's representatives here in the House. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The fact is: Moria, who is responsible for many miscarriage camps at the external borders, is the consequence of a missing, dysfunctional EU asyl policy of decomposition and demarcation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] What is the responsibility of a responsible policy, in addition to the procurement of a majority for inclusion of people and in addition to active humanitarian aid? – The commitment to a pan-European, solidaric and humane solution, which the Geneva Refugee Convention respects, rather than even more according to the motto: After me, the flood! [[Abg. Kickl: Autosuggestiv is that!]] What we also need to do is to create facts, to stay here in Parliament in particular, not allow the reduction and distortion of facts to make our entire society a symbol of our European refugee policy. [[Call:... Geneva Convention...]] [[Abg. Kickl: So I like it that you support freedom policy!]] And I don't need to look at a dokus, because I've talked to those involved on the spot. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Jasar is 16 years old. As a child, he was tortured by Islamic terrorist groups in Afghanistan because his father worked for UNHCR. His house burned down, and the family made a long way across Iran, across the Mediterranean to Europe. Eleven times, Jasar says, he sat in a broken boat and saw people drowning around. He says to me: I didn't doubt for a moment that we wanted to try again. – Not in expectation of a fair asylum process, but simply to survive. Let us be glad that we are living in a Europe where we can secure this survival! Let us stop producing war conditions as a deterrent, because only when we remove peace, democracy, the rule of law, human rights in Europe will some of you be able to say that there is no such pull effect. – And no, we don’t want Greens to go there, and no, that’s where the majority of the population does not want to go. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Enisa is eight years old. These children are not allowed to attend regular school in Greece, and another is simply not available. When I was in Moria in March, just right-wing radicals burned down the only family center that offered lessons. - That's how much it's going to be. Yes, on all sides is kindled, but let's not just push that one group! Let us not forget the burning of schoolbooks that took place there, because it is about the generations who are here on European soil. It is our children who are waiting for a solution as we continue to argue! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Then a woman collapsed in front of my eyes, with foam in front of my mouth. I'm between her and the security forces and I'm yelling at one thing: She needs medical care! - So what we all demand. Do you know what he's saying to me? - She'll hold it. More is there, I think, not to say that, except that in these examples of extortion, it is not only a liberal clause, but a declaration of bankruptcy to humanity. So be ashamed! [[Abg. Kickl: Shame you should be!]] Shame that you are twisting the facts in order to beat political little money out of it! [[Abg. Kickl: You should get yourself!]] [[Abg. Kickl:... explain to the people how... can enforce!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] And another one: Moria is evacuated. The conditions there are consciously not made better. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] The money simmers, the Greek government not only feels left alone by Europe, but it is – yes, that must be said – also pervaded by right-wing extreme thoughts. [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] This is reflected by the authorities, which is reflected in those who should actually be responsible for and for their protection on the spot for the ousted, dispossessed people, so I say here at this current hour of Europe in principle: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riser]] Escape was and is not a crime and will not be a crime.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8945	Now you have to write the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8960	Only the privilege of the birthplace separates us from the fate of the people in Moria. Therefore, we should not frighten people, but frighten ourselves, yes, we should get scared.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8978	Your speaking time has been exhausted. I asked you to formulate the final sentence. I'll give you a little time to do this now.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8994	Austria is a small country, but with a big heart. Our political credo, our deepest conviction, is therefore clear: If people are in distress, we will help with all our means.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9031	Mrs Stephanie Krisper is the next one to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9053	Madam President. Minister! Mr. Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Why are children evacuating from Moria camps to Austria? – It is a humanitarian disaster on EU soil, for which we bear responsibility, a humanitarian disaster, yes: The life of those affected on the ground is at risk, is on the way to being destroyed. It is inconceivable that for years there have been conditions in EU soils that also drive children in suicide tests. Moria is located in Greece, Mr Chancellor, where there is no way to speak of aid on the ground – you abuse a term for a performance that should never exist in Europe, and confuse people – it is to be done locally in the countries of origin. In Moria, we are not obliged to help locally, but to defend our values for which the European Union was founded: Democracy and human rights. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] On this point, Our credibility, which has eroded in recent years on every day when the children sleep there in dirt under plans, without medical care, do not know if they get something to eat. We already lost it. In fact, it is now about taking responsibility, and the responsibility for these states in Austria is Sebastian Kurzund the ÖVP, from the top – from him – down. Mr. Chancellor, you are good at preaching, but – from my perspective – you are not in a matter of fact, but in an ice-cold non-storage, and that of calculator. What happened after 2015? – We remember that you were not interested in human and at the same time efficient solutions, but in the Australian model. They also colported the years after, until 2017, even as it became clear that there had to be closed camps because they were not worthy of human beings. This is your calculation to keep people, asylum seekers from their own territory. This makes sense for your purposes, and you have managed to enforce it in Europe. They were thus on the side of the nationalists who are preventing Europe from building an efficient, common asylum procedure. [[Federal Chancellor Kurz nodds.]] – You nod, you seem to give me right in terms of sitting in a boat with the nationalists. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] What to understand Because you're under external border protection? – camps with suffering people whose fate is appalling. In truth, however, this innocuous activity of the government only creates chaos and inhumanity. What rule of law and humanity would mean at the same time would be, if one were controlled at the external borders, registered, splitting up asylum seekers, sending back those who do not deserve protection, and integrating those who deserve protection as soon as possible. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] This would actually allow efficient deterrence, which you want, to be a rule of law, namely through efficient deportations. But what do you want with your destructive nature? – They still want to use the hustling chaos at the limits of fear. Fear makes me something completely different, because fear makes me see people suffering again because of your cynical policy, seeing them continue to suffer and can't do anything, because now Moria threatens two. According to doctors without borders, at the moment, nearly 10,000 people are vegetating in the new provisional camp Kara Tepe, which has been set up on an abandoned military practice site in recent days. They don't know if they'll get something to eat or have showers and toilets, but they know there's a danger of mine. We NEOS – not the ÖVP and not the FPÖ – do not tire to work to ensure that security and order are achieved through efficient, rapid procedures, and that – as Austria – we are moving forward in a coalition of the determined ones. However, in order to achieve this, we need a discharge from the EU's foreign countries, and that's why we already demanded that we evacuate in April, when Corona broke out. At the time, not only was the ÖVP opposed, but also the Greens rejected our request. Now, after the fire, it takes all the more rapid evacuation. It must be prevented, as doctors without borders say, that the next camp of misery also arises from the ashes of Morias with Austrian support. - Out of sight, out of sense. We have the capacity to help in Austria. Asylum quarters, for which we pay rent – at the time by Minister of the Interior Mikl-Leiter – are empty, and there are many people in Austria who want to help. They ignore the increased reputations of civil society, the church community in Austria, of child and youth psychiatrists, from the initiative Courage – courage to humanity that is behind which more and more people want to help. They not only take the Greens into hostagery, who are also responsible for it themselves, because they have simply thrown many of their principles overboard during the government negotiations, but they also take all the people into hostagery who do not let you help. Do not take these hostages, let them help you, let those people who feel the responsibility do something if you already feel nothing! We therefore propose today that the Federal Government should check for validity the many assistance offered by the people in Austria who want to help, and allow them to provide for the care and/or sponsorship of these children after the entry of unaccompanied minors. ÖVP...
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9137	You must now formulate the final sentence, Mrs Deputies. [[In the case of the NEOS for the Abg that left the speaker's desk. Krisper.]] The next speaker is Member of the European Parliament, Mrs Angelikack. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9170	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Dear gentlemen on the government bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Today, the NEOS once again show their true face, namely that they have absolutely no interest in a solution-oriented discussion, because how else is the glorious idea of asking the Chancellor to support a European asylum system, which is now presented at 12 o'clock, which nobody knows who has worked through. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger:... medial..., more time...!]] Austria helps 365 days a year because we are aware of our humanitarian responsibility. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are third in the EU in the protection of refugees, second in the reception of children. Yes, we are praised by the Commission for this, but we should first of all meet all the other Member States, what we have done since 2015. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Exactly! This is what we call solidarity. ...have understood!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Yes, Mrs. Meinl-Reisinger, deny You're not the reality! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] Please don't pretend we haven't recorded anyone since 2015! This year, 10 000 to 12 000 asylum certificates will be issued in a positive way. [[Further call of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] Last week we had 367 asylum seekers, and this year we took 700 unaccompanied minors into basic care. [[Abg. Kickl: No look!]] But the fact is that help on the spot is important to us. We were already on site in Moria before the fire was set. We supported by financial means and we brought aid supplies already in spring, which was particularly important to our Minister of the Interior, and we were again the first to help with 55 tonnes across the EU. Yes, I have drawn my teaching from 2015, namely that on this migration topic, the opinion published never agrees with the public opinion. We were in the Upper Austrian country election campaign at the time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] There were, on the one hand, helpful people and, on the other hand, enormous aggressiveness across all the population groups, all professions, across all parties. This overload, which must never happen in this country again. The negative example is Sweden. The socialist Prime Minister complains of the high level of criminality of migrants, and the Swedish chief of police criticises that migrant large families form a state in the state, and now they still had to get a Danish right-wing populist ex-minister to solve the whole as advisers. It is sad that millions of people are on the run, but Europe can only take up a fraction of it. That is why it is much fairer to stop the bloody billions of tugs, and we can only do so with help on the ground. What are you doing? – With your ideas, you fire the tractors. How naive are you, please? Do you think tugs are young men who leave boats on the water? – These are major organisations, professional organisations. By sending 1,500 refugees to Germany, the next 1,500 are already in front of the gates of Europe, and the tugman can calculate that he will probably earn 3 million euros in a quarter of an hour. You have to take the air to breath! For me, proper access is a perfect coordination with third countries, incentives, but also control systems and, above all, training, on-site jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This must include a sustainable, visionary migration agreement of the European Union, and we will also agree with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9275	Next speaker: Member of the European Parliament Günther Sidl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9297	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! The pictures from the Moria refugee camp have touched most of us deeply, and it was not only the shocking images of the fire, but it has been dramatically brought to our attention how we, as Europe, make people live there on the run. You have to address it quite openly: As one of the richest regions in the world, we have not even managed to put these people in proper toilets, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is an evidence of poverty for our Europe, but a certificate of poverty, especially for those responsible in the Member States who have approved it, and it is now a certificate of poverty for our federal government to oppose the reception of children and even to oppose it if others, such as the Federal Capital of Vienna, want to help. In 2015 I was an integration speaker of my group in the Lower Austrian Landtag, and I was in very many communities and cities at discussions, which were about the reception of refugees. I know these discussions, I know the emotions. [[Abg. Kickl: Then you fled to Brussels!]] At one of these events, a member of a rescue organization – listen carefully, Mr. Kickl! – said: When you see someone lying in the grave, you don't first ask where he comes from, but you help. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You help, and this is the only option that is compatible with our basic values. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] In addition, we also need, at last, a European answer to the question of how we deal with people on the run, a common effort to promote integration from the first day onwards, and we must finally consider how we can give people security and, above all, prospects in their countries. This is a challenge that only one Union can master, in which everyone gets on a line, but what we are currently experiencing is a fall back into a small state, into a counterpart of the Member States. All this weakens Europe massively. At the very front there is unfortunately the entire Austrian Federal Government – I say consciously: the entire Federal Government. You can't talk about the chancellor or the coalition partner, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The game that is being driven here is highly dangerous, because the European Union is always weak if the Member States are unable to agree on a course or do not want to agree at all. It is cynical to call for a European response which is constantly torpeded through the back door. Those who take the idea of a united Europe seriously in Austria and do not want to cooperate in its destruction must bear their share of a common responsibility, because we need a strong Europe now, when it comes to dealing with the economic and social consequences of the Corona pandemic, a strong Europe for a European Health Union with functioning public health systems, a strong Europe for sustainable solutions to overcome the challenges of climate change, and a strong Europe for the defence of our democratic fundamental rights, including in Europe, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Finally, we now need a strong Europe that takes responsibility and creates solutions to the very essential question of the orderly reception and accommodation of refugees on our continent. The EU Commission will present today its new package on migration and asylum policy in the EU. The EU Parliament has already clarified its position in 2016: We want a common asylum system based on distribution and solidarity. Because today has already been addressed to bring facts: Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Federal Government! That's your job. Mr. Federal Chancellor, that was also your job as Foreign Minister! Another thing: In addition, no one is prevented from helping in the greatest need and already providing protection to the weakest in Moria, the children and the minors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9364	Next speaker: Mr Michael Schnedlitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9389	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Minister! High house! Because my previous speaker has just spoken about pictures and facts, I think we must also take a picture in this whole debate, as it is taking place here today, but also, as it has already been happening in the media for the last few days. They speak of children all the time, drawing for the Austrian population a picture of small, four, five, six, seven-year-old children. I will show you the true picture of the children you want to get from Moria, as you can already find in the international press. The Austrian press has not yet published these pictures so comprehensively. [[The speaker shows a photo of a group of men in front of a dark background.]] These, ladies and gentlemen, are the first children to be taken out of Moria: 1.90 meters tall, Bart, each other probably born on 1.1. It's just these kids who have a lot of candlewood, these kids that you've already brought to us in the country and who've already done a lot of things with us. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] When to Become You finally arrive in reality and understand that we are now in the middle of a crisis in the middle of Austria, a crisis in which there are millions of victims in our country? When will you understand that we cannot save the whole world with the Austrian tax money? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] When will you arrive in the present and understand that under the cover of the aid we must not import further crime and other problems that we have in our education system, in schools and so on? The key question is: When will the Austrian Federal Government finally understand that it is the task of the Austrian Federal Government to help especially in Austria and only then to care for the rest of the world? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There help on site gets a good meaning and is the keyword. There are over a million people in Austria who are vulnerable to poverty, hundreds of thousands of unemployed, hundreds of thousands in short work, entrepreneurs who are in front of the shards of their existence, seniors and pensioners who do not find their income and their pension, and over 300,000 children who are vulnerable to poverty in Austria, at our own doorstep. Our liberal attitude, ladies and gentlemen, is clear: As long as there is only one child at risk of poverty in Austria, we must not send a single cent of tax money abroad, nor do we need immigration. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The motto must be: Full power for our country! That is the help on the ground that we urgently need in the present day. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The black and green path, however, looks different. There will be Zigmillions sent abroad from the hip, and even if your PR consultants tell you to show a little hardness to 200 children I have just shown you, then the reality also looks different. They bring immigrants and asylumers to thousands in our country: last Friday 59, on Saturday 29, on Sunday 32, on Monday 41 and yesterday 36 illegal immigrants, thousands in the past weeks and months, and while you are drawing a border to your own population, borders are open to illegal immigration and migration. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Because you, too, Minister of the Interior, are here and are proclaiming in great measure that no asylum is granted without a corona test, I ask you: Do you know how many of the thousands brought a negative corona test? – Zero, ladies and gentlemen. This is the sand that the government and, above all, the ÖVP are trying to spread their eyes to the population. You can also save this spectacle with colleagues Seehofer, among party friends. This is relatively easy to see, because you are both trying to benefit politically from it and your Minister of the Interior, as a thank you, is still taking back more than 1,000 migrants from Germany. Ladies and gentlemen, if the EU is now leading the way to abolish Dublin and ensure a redistribution across the nation states, then this is a dangerous threat, and I expect the Austrian Federal Government not to slip on its knees to Brussels, but to represent our Austrian interests. The message must be: We're not extortionable by arsons! The message in the direction of illegal migrants and tractors must be: You don't have a chance at all, no way, don't try it at all, the boundaries are closed! Just in times like this, the message must be: Austria first, Austrian first! The present, Mrs Colleague, is not Moria, the present is Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[towards Abg. Rendi-Wagner]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9507	The next item is Mrs Monika Vana, Member of the European Parliament. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9528	Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not wish to comment for long on these despicable and last-class statements of my predecessor. I would like to thank you very much for this important hour of Europe today, which also shows how important the subject matter is. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The fire in the Moria refugee camp has led us dramatically and definitely: For years now, the issue of refugees has been blaming Europe throughout the common house, and only with a policy of fortification and decommissioning at the external borders of Europe, will we not clear this fire – that is fact. The refugee suffering is unbearable and an EU Nobel Peace Prizewinner is unworthy. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] For years, I can also use this for myself, we are calling on the Greens to assume their humanitarian responsibility, to ensure the fundamental right to asylum and to carry out procedures quickly and, above all, in accordance with human rights. People fleeing from war, hunger, persecution and violence must be given protection! For this to happen, we need legal ways of escape and immigration, fair procedures for asylum seekers and decriminalisation of maritime emergency rescue in order to finally put an end to the death in the Mediterranean. But all of this cannot be done with the current Dublin system, and, as it has already been mentioned, the Commission is now presenting its plans for a so-called migration pact by the Member States. This is a long-term overdue step, because for far too long the European Union has been slowed down by the total opposition of some Member States. I can tell you: In the European Parliament we have long found a compromise, an agreement for a distribution mechanism on the issue of refugees, which alone block the Member States. Europe urgently needs a migration pact and a common, solidarity-based asylum policy, which is also clearly stated in the EU Treaty as a goal, in order to enable decent reception of refugees, but also – and this is very important – to meet its own fundamental values and fundamental rights. As far as we have heard so far, the current proposal of the European Commission will unfortunately not eliminate the misery at the external borders. We hear about accelerated asylum procedures in large camps, which do not fundamentally change the problem. We hear that the Dublin regime should not be put out of effect – I think there will be a need for tough negotiations. We must comply with the Geneva Convention on Refugees and we must not leave the southern EU Member States alone with the handling of asylum procedures – I think that fair, rule-of-law asylum procedures do not seem possible in mass camps. In the European Parliament, we Greens have been working very clearly for years on the following objectives: for a stop to many years of mass internations at the external borders, the creation of open registration centres from which refugees can then distribute to the Member States by means of a fair and solidarity system, as well as motivation and support. This is very, very important for regions, cities and communities that want to take up refugees – it is impressive what is being done by more and more mayors across Europe. By the way, the EU Structural Funds have been generous in supporting money for years, and a lot of money remains in Brussels alone. It's quite clear: All Member States must confess themselves to a European asylum system without exception! An EU failure on this issue is not an option! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why today, on the occasion of the title of the hour of Europe, which is addressed to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, my personal appeal to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, but also, of course, to all the political responsibilities in Austria: Let's take our responsibility seriously! Let us support a common and solid European asylum system! Austria can and should take up refugees, many other Member States show it, that is fact! We rescue refugees from the current emergency situation in Moria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9602	Next speaker: Mr Helmut Brandstätter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9623	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr Bundeskanzler, I asked you to stop using the term of the terrible pictures in the EU's main committee. I'm very grateful you don't do it anymore, because it's not about pictures. I think we all took it from these two hours today: It's about people, and I want to add, it's about the dignity of the human being, anchored in the German basic law, but also – you won't wonder, I brought a book to it – in Catholic and Christian social doctrine: “The dignity of man is untouchable”. [[The speaker keeps the book “The Dignity of Man Is Inviolable” on the Application of the Catholic Social Doctrine.]] Professor Sedmak has done it in part a bit complicated, but he has also written a very simple sentence: When it comes to respecting the dignity of man, the “first step of this process [...] is the social alertness and attention that the Catholic Social Doctrine encourages and constitutes; the needs of the world concern people. The great obstacle to the application of social doctrine is indifference," says Professor. I say, it's the sausage, it's the way to look, it's to say: It's none of our business. – No, it matters to us, and again: What we see in Moria is not on the spot, as it always doesn't mean, it's in the middle of Europe. There are children in the middle of Europe on the street, and those who look away are excused! [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] Also from ÖVP-side, the word has already fallen into line with the solution. Yes, and I also looked at it again, there are mayors of the ÖVP who said: Yes, we like to record a few families! That is, in your party there are people who want to live by this Christian social doctrine and say: We record a few families!, Mayor Linhart from Bregenz, Mayor Karelly from Fischbach, Mayor Brunsteiner from Vöcklabruck, to name only a few – there are a lot more, and I really wonder: Where's the problem? Where's the problem? There are mayors – including other parties – who say: We're recording! We know the kids are on the street there, and we're preventing that. – What is the solution? Something else to help you on the spot: On-site assistance does not mean in Europe. Europe, that's us! Help on the ground is – and, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, you have said it right, 80, 90, 100 million people worldwide are on the run – to help there. There is the wonderful UNHCR, the UN refugee relief work, and there I looked at the numbers. Very bad was the year 2018, since we fell to 3.6 million euros. Now we pay a little more – I think 5 million euros; comparable states like Denmark and Sweden pay 90 million euros. That is, if we say help on the ground, we also need to pay more for the UNHCR. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would also ask you to make a distinction between escape and migration. Migration is one – of course, there must be a European solution, but only right for refugees. I found one of them to be disappointing: The EU Commission is now seeking a common approach, and even before we know what is in it, the proposal comes from Austria to reject it. It really can't be. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] At the end of this hour, I would like to come up with something that moves me so much, namely, to this European identity. What is the European identity? That we – even more – create a little better machines than others, that we have a little faster cars or a little more beautiful houses than elsewhere? - No! The European identity is this humanism. You don't have to be religious – one is religious, the other isn't. By the way, human dignity always means: the Christian-Jewish heritage. What the Christians have done with the Jews, we also know from history, but if we already take the Christian-Jewish heritage, then it is the Jewish heritage that man is practically there as an image of God and therefore the dignity of every human being must be inviolable. Please: We need to focus on this, which is what makes Europe – the rule of law, democracy, but also social compassion. We note that the European way of living – and as I said, that is not prosperity, but that is compassion, that is solidarity, and that is democracy and the rule of law – is at risk worldwide. Today’s “New Zürcher Newspaper”, please read: The Americans are withdrawing from the UN as an important institution, and what are the Chinese doing? – They are pushing more and more. And what are they doing? – They say wherever human rights are concerned: No, we don't, we don't pay for that. – They also want to push the issue of human rights out of the UN. If we Europeans do not stand for humanity, for human rights, no one will do it anymore, and if we do not, our way of life will be lost. That's why – and I think so – it's a wake-up call. I like to apply for foreign books, I will not apply for my own book, but, Federal Chancellor, I have written this book for my children and for your generation. Emotions have already been mentioned – emotion is not good. If we are not Europeans, we will lose Europe, and that is why I have written something about Europe with great enthusiasm and emotion, and I would like to give it to you. It's below any level of corruption, but you already mentioned Concordia today: If you donate something for Concordia, I'm glad twice. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9706	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[12:13:17]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9727	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request for a short debate on the reply to the question 2511/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9883	Before entering the agenda, I announce that the request made in accordance with Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to hold a brief debate on the reply to Question 2511/AB 2509/J by Mr Drobits, colleagues on “Edelstein project – planned (part) Privatisation of the Bundesrechenzentrum” by the Federal Minister for Finance Blümel. This brief debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda, but not later than 15 a.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9905	I would also like to say that Mr Ddr. May. Hubert Fuchs, Kai Jan Krainerund Dipl.-Ing. Mr Karin has requested that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure report on Amendment 421/A be sent to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure for a period of until 29. ==References== The motion for a resolution will be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9929	The debate on points 1 and 2, 6 to 8, 9 and 10, 11 to 14, 15 and 16 and 19 and 20 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9950	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: ÖVP 156, SPÖ 108, FPÖ 88, Green 80 and NEOS 64 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club, 32 minutes each, and their speaking time is limited to 5 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. Whoever speaks for it, I ask for an acceptable sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We are going into the agenda with this. [[12:16:13]] 1. Point Report by the Health Committee on the motion for a resolution 826/A by Mr August Wöginger, Mr Sigrid Maurer, Mr BA, colleagues on a federal law amending the 1950 Epidemic Law, the Tuberculosis Act and the Act on COVID-19 measures (370 d.b.) 2. Point Report and request of the Health Committee on the draft federal law amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act and the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act (371 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10014	We come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First speaker is Mr Klubobmann Herbert Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10044	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Today, we are discussing much, much more than health policy issues with the novels on the Epidemic Law and the COVID-19 Act. Much more, much more. I would like to say that, in fact, in many areas of the debate, it is about what is happening in the following minutes. We are discussing something similar to the cardiovascular system and the nervous system of this republic, because both systems really want this black and green federal government, with its parliamentary roller command, which it has been running for many months, to bear in mind. That is the truth behind this legislation that we are now discussing. [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and the representatives of the NEOS.]] I think there's a wonderful term for this: Feschism. I like it very much. I would try to define fessism in such a way as to carry out an X-large decay policy made by government members in the slim fit. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Loacker.]] This is the Feshism 2020 in Austria, and now we are discussing the laws that create the basis for it. Ladies and gentlemen to my left – who on my right have just passed – are together, that is, together – beautifully formulated – what is called a federal government; according to the case, it is more similar to a chaos club. [[towards Federal Minister Anschober, Federal Minister Aschbacher and Federal Minister Geessler]] In any case, in recent months this federal government has actually drawn something similar to a trail of devastation throughout the country. All the facts that I now call are measurable, they are objective, they are precise, they are fixed – in contrast to your Covid infection numbers, which you're dragging around in world history, with which you're insecure the entire population and with which you're testing the second wave. What am I talking about? What exactly is, and what can be measured? – The mass unemployment, the pleite wave that is rolling through the country, the destroyed existences, in a very short time the destruction and danger of a prosperity that has been built up by generations before you in this country, the disease cases, the deaths beyond Covid, and then the great attack on the fundamental and freedom rights you ride lack: Liberation of the own population including penalties without any legal coverage. This is all measurable and objective. This is the best of both worlds that have been promised to us, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. This is the temporary balance after a few months of ruling brand black-green. They do nothing but put the country into a state of emergency mode to save public health from something that does not even have the threat dimension that you want to keep talking about to the people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Against this background, it is a duty for every liberal, I would like to say – and it is actually also a necessary act of the emergency force, performed in the interest of an ever-growing group of the population – not only to reject these two legislative instruments today, but of course also to distrust the entire federal government. I would also like to make the following request: motion for a resolution by Mr Herbert Kickl, colleagues on the failure of confidence in the Federal Government and the State Secretary The National Council wants to decide: ‘The Federal Government and the State Secretary shall, in accordance with Art. 74 (1) (iv) of Art. 78 (1) (v) of the Rules of Procedure. By express resolution of the National Council, 2 B-VG fails to trust.” [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I know, of course, that this proposal will not receive a majority today – not yet, I say, not yet! – that is why, among other things, social democracy is now falling over the second time in a very short time. I don't know what's going on with you. [[towards SPÖ]] You probably know the famous quote of Grillparzer, who has formulated so beautifully: The nice thing about a mistake is that you don't have to do it twice. - Quote. What are you doing, ladies and gentlemen, that you have to disprove this quote? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's not necessary at all. They release this black-green steam roller instead of themselves, as the liberals do, to put it in the way. Mrs Rendi-Wagner, you are – and I say so – party chairmen of your party. I would have a great request to you or a hint for you that it would be posthumous because of the honesty and so to speak not to harm the memory of deserved social democrats: Please do not talk to each other in your group as comrades – compliments and compliments that would fit, compliments and compliments of this black and green federal government! [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] We put a sign with this request and you are of course pleased that this is not happening today, but you are not looking forward to too early! [[towards ÖVP]] You know, the beans in the SED have also laughed about it when upland, land-based citizens have found themselves in Windseails under the motto: We are the people!, more and more organized. – You know the end of the story as well as I do. With today's request, we tell you very clearly and clearly that we are not involved in your corona insanity, that we reject your new normality, which is nothing other than a regulation Democrat, and that, above all, we cannot win anything from your health policy access at all, in which you pour the child out with the bath, shoot cannons on spats, or, as the Swedish chief epidemiologist so aptly formulated, try to hit a fly with a hammer, and in fact only destroy the whole furniture. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The furniture, that is the economy of Austria, that is our social system and all that belongs to it. Now think about how logical it is to go here and say that you want to save our health system and protect against overload, while at the same time ruin all the conditions it needs to maintain this health system! That doesn't fit in. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You are prisoners of your own fear strategy. They're stuck in your shrouds and don't get them down, and the bad thing is that you took the Austrian population into hostages. We liberals take action to free the people from this hostage and to replace your strategy of fear with a strategy of courage, confidence and, above all, freedom – this is a term that you have long removed from your vocabulary. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It must be called health and freedom, health and jobs, health and the economy. You have always or stand between these terms, and that is the wrong way. If I delete this and so much, then this is not opposition fantasy, but there are countries that practice it – and now I am in Sweden. I know you don't like to hear it, but it's like this once: The Swedish shares rise while yours go to the basement. I've always said, Let us look at the whole thing and then measure it in the end, for a slightly longer development, as it actually looks! I do not know what you have against the Swedish people, but at Greta you have all gone after a Swedish woman and have not had any skrupel for a second. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, now I'm doing something that you don't like so much: I compare because I think you have to compare to make relationships. I say to those who get upset right away: A comparison is not an equation – so just to think, but I compare. Let us compare the current situation with a flu wave, as it experiences Austria year after year! There are sometimes 1 000 dead people to complain about, but there have been between 3 000 and 4,000 dead for years. This is much more than what we have to complain about now. Now I ask you: So we're going down the entire economy? - No, I don't. Do we therefore block the door of his own company to the entrepreneur? - No, I don't. So we're producing a lockdown? - No, I don't. So do we cause chaos in schools and universities? - No, I don't. So do we forbid social contacts? – No, no and no again! We don't do all of this, and we don't do it for a good reason. You could go here and say: Yes, of course, it is true that the year-round maskade you have ordered – the only mask ball that is still taking place all year round – also helps to control this flu epidemic; that a lockdown would, of course, reduce this number of 1,000, 4,000 dead. [[Cheerfulness of MEPs Hauser and Mühlberghuber]] . But we do not, simply because we ask ourselves whether these measures are proportionate. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this assessment of proportionality, we insist that it is not proportionate to ruin the whole country and put it at great risk, and that is why we react differently. We respond with the appeal to self responsibility, with the appeal to the house mind, and we do well to insist that people themselves have an interest in their own health. This is how we survive the year after year relatively unharmed, without these measures you are now implementing and with those They have actually led the whole country to the edge of the ruin and partly beyond. That is what I cannot understand, ladies and gentlemen, because this appeal to the mind of the house, to the self-responsibility is largely the Swedish model we are always talking about. I cannot understand that you did not come here and made this comparison in connection with your legal goods consideration. But you can go here today and take advantage of the opportunity and explain to us what we all do not yet know what brings you to these measures. After all that is known so far, it is simple and imperceptible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I do not expect you to explain this today, because you have long raised this whole matter to a question of faith. – Believe it or don't believe it! – That’s not a question of faith! By the way, you should remember that it has always been the skeptics who have made progress in this world, and not the dogmatics. But you have explained everything to be a question of faith, and you are incredibly well-born and unbelievably ignorant of all opinions that have only one disadvantage, namely that of not being yours – otherwise they can be well-founded as they want. Take the mask question: It is not at all undisputed that wearing masks provides a real protection contribution. No, there's a scientific controversy about that. It is undisputed that long-term health care is harmful. This is undisputed, and I really do not understand your Lord of the Red Cross, Mr Foitik, if he still recommends wearing the mask in the office all the time. That's irresponsible. History of the disease: Well, thank God it is so much that the majority of the processes are actually without significant symptoms of illness and that only a very, very small number of people are really ill. The policies you pursue act as if it were the other way round. You act as if it were reversed, and your actions are fighting something that in fact does not exist. I'm very bad when I come to the issue of vaccination. You know exactly that after that time, a vaccine cannot really have any testing that would be comparable to any other vaccine. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is a responsible experiment on the Austrian population, which you plan with your large purchase of vaccine. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we are addressing the motion for a reluctance against the entire federal government because it is a multiple government failure. These are not individual members of the government, but everything you produce goes through the Council of Ministers. They're all there, that's all unanimous. I can remind you that Werner Kogler has been so overburdened that he needs his own State Secretary because he has to coordinate so much. He has to coordinate all of this with Mr. Blümel. These are all co-productions, even if the ÖVP wants to know nothing about them at some point in the abdominal area – and that was very many. That is why it all includes it, but we can of course also go through the ministers in detail. One already has a very negative excellence, I would like to say that is the Minister for Health. Of course, it's a little protruding. For me, he is similar to the male edition of Ulrike Lunacek. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Hörl.]] However, Mrs Lunacek must be welcomed that at least she knew that she was the wrong person in the wrong place at the wrong time. - You're not ready yet, Minister. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We can all go through. Mr Fassmann: Chaos in schools, that is the education policy of Mr Fassmann. He's just producing a lost generation of education. Mr. Nehammer is on the hunt for life-hazards. There he means only his own population, the most harmless of all, while those who continue to come illegally to our country without any testing and being transported across the country. [[Abg. Hear: Go!]] This is Mr Nehammer and his contribution to the corona policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have Mrs Labour Ministers who are unable to protect the domestic labour market from the risks to employment from the European Union and from third countries. For this, it is based on a home labour law, which is supposed to come at the end of March. By the way, that is when everyone says that the crisis is already over. This is the contribution of the Minister of Labour. Mrs. Schramböck is ruining the winter season together with Mrs. Köstinger. As Minister of Justice, Ms Zadić does not want to know that it is a huge cleaner to punish their own people for something for which there is no legal basis, and so on, and so on.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10211	Mr Klubobmann, I would ask you, even if it is difficult to be moderate in terms of expression. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Objection to the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: These are facts!]] – I can tell you exactly: The expression “cleanness” violates the dignity of the house. I would ask you to take it back and focus on the dignity of the house in the further speech.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10255	And then I haven't mentioned Mr. Blümel yet! This is the one who does not bring together a budget because he has to do with how he can find a financial structure with which he can move billions without the control of Parliament. Then there are some others I didn't mention. Unless they have anything to do with Corona, they deal with any censorships or operate orchid themes. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, from my point of view, this motion of censure is more than justified. You deserved him. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, a word about SPÖ or rather about the future remains of a once proud social-democratic movement dear compliments! [[Abg. He's right!]] I don't know what's going on with you. ==References== You are here in September and you have held a special special meeting in which you have rightly regretted the tragedy on the labour market in which you have defined responsibility for the highest unemployment of all time in Austria in the Second Republic as a result of a failed corona policy in this Federal Government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light snow]] And now? – Mrs. Klubobfrau! Look, please, and don't look away! It's been since the 14th century. Has it got better on September, or has it got worse? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] Has it got better or worse? – It has become worse, because every day we reach new news of any redundancies. I really don't understand you now when you make the government the wall. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, your success in negotiations is a joke. Everyone knows, you know it too, you just don't admit it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Wöginger today has muscle cat, he kept his stomach from laughing all night long, and today he has muscle cat. So easy to pull over the table, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] There are only these two possibilities: The government has pulled you over the table, or you have received some Judas for something we do not yet know exactly what it is. In any case, you were prepared to betray the interests of workers, the interests of the unemployed and the fundamental and freedom rights. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kassinger: We'll take them over again now!]] The punishment will come, the punishment will speed you up, ladies and gentlemen, the first part of it already today, in the form of the reproach you will have to suffer when the government's speakers will praise you for this betrayal. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[12:35]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10437	Mr Klubobmann Kickl, since “Rollkommandos” were used during the Nazi period to terrorise and murder the population, I give you a call for order for this expression, and I also give you a call for order for the expression “Judas Wohn”. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Objection to the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kassinger: This is a Bible concept! I mean, I'm not so bible-proof, but - -!]] Your request for distrust has been filed and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Sigrid Maurer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10492	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Dear spectators in front of the screens! Dear spectators at the gallery! [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] I am very glad that, due to the construction with the plexiglass devices here in the plenary, we can finally receive visitors again, and also that the photographers have more opportunities to observe and accompany the events here. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Now you've been talking to plastic!]] [[Abg. Martin Graf: But that's fine!]] Unfortunately, the event that can be observed and accompanied here is a bit of a game of mourning. I have now tried to get myself into an emotional mood during Mr Kickl's speech to live up to what is being done here. I have to tell you, I'm having a hard time. Since the beginning of this crisis, which is the largest crisis facing this country since the Second World War, which this Parliament has also called for massively in many facets as elected representatives of the population, for health, for the economic system, for the workers of the country to ensure that we get over this crisis as best we can in all its facets. [[Abg. Martin Graf: Made by you!]] [[Abg. Kickl: If it's really terrible, it's always the people!]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In March, we had a situation in which this House passed legislation together, including the FPÖ, which essentially corresponds to what we decide again today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] Mr Kickl, you asked in March, a few days before the actual starting restrictions came, for it to be the radical lockdown. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] It was too little for you. They wanted far more radical measures than those we have introduced, which were ultimately in favour of ensuring a balanced mix of protection for the population and sufficient freedom, sufficient movement, adequate respect for fundamental rights. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Cashier: But not for eight months!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: What have you done for the last six months?]] We have all decided this together with all the political groups including the FPÖ, but you have been running a zigzag course since then, which could not be more breathtaking. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Please go!]] You don't know what you really want. I have to tell you quite honestly, I often don't know: Do you and your members now believe in the existence of the virus? Yes or no? – Just as you regularly act here, also in the Presidential, for example, with the disregard of all the protective measures, this is also a joke against all the other Members here in Parliament. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Is that a question of faith?]] That's what I want to say! [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] They treat us with absolutely irrantious and also without responsibility to the Austrians and all the people who live here. [[Abg. Amesbauer: You with your laws!]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] They contribute to the fact that there is a massive uncertainty at a time when the exact opposite is necessary. [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] I think I can already understand that you are sad that you are no longer part of this government – for good reasons. By the way, I find it very funny that you are talking about complicits in the direction of SPÖ, while your party has the most pending procedures, which are actually about the question of complicity in the criminal technical sense. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[The representatives of Kainz, Lausch and Schmiedlechner hold a transparency at the gallery with the title: “Stops the turquoise-green www.Coronawahnsinsinn.at”.]] We're here in Parliament. We have the task of creating the legal basis for the successful settlement of this crisis. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Yes, it has been an extremely challenging situation, and it has not everything gone around either. And yes: It was repealed by the Constitutional Court of Justice a part of the law. Today, after more than 16 000 opinions have been submitted, we are catching up after two stages...
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10715	Mrs. Club Chairman, excuse me many times, I have to interrupt you for a moment. I think they've all seen the transparency. Of course, it didn't lose anything at the gallery. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: We did not throw down any papers like you used to!]] [[Call the FPÖ: You have put down papers, we only have a transparent...!]] [[Call:... House ban]] So I'm trying to roll it back in. May I ask the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate to ensure that the actions in the gallery are terminated? - That's it. Excuse me, you're on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10770	Today, according to more than 16 000 opinions – the interest was very great, we discussed a lot about it – we created a new legal regime. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Deimek.]] It is not a simple matter, but Rudi Anschober has proved faulty culture from the very beginning in connection with dealing with this crisis – such a crisis has never been there before. He has been involved in constitutional judges from the beginning and has also been looking for open dialogue from the start. I am very glad that most of the political groups here in the House are ready for cooperative cooperation. This applies to all political groups except the FPÖ. The FPÖ – and I would like to say this again – is the chairman of the Health Committee. [[Abg. Worm: Poor speech, very weak speech!]] The FPÖ is the group that prevented the convening of such a committee last week, although we had actually agreed to carry out a committee review. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] To demand parliamentarianism is good, but to block committees is absolutely incompatible with it from my point of view. [[Abg. Kickl: I don't think you know about parliamentarianism!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] Today, we are adopting a law that goes into effect on many, many of the concerns expressed, and which is now written in such a way that the Socialist Group is going to go with us today, and I am very grateful for that. [[Abg. Worm: Very weak speech!]] It's necessary. We need a broad basis for these laws and we also need security for the population. [[Abg. Kickl: Extra...!]] I would like to add a few points to the law: We create additional clarity. [[Call the FPÖ: That's ridiculous!]] In future, in the case of serious measures, we will involve the main committee, the Parliament, for example, if it becomes necessary to impose new restrictions on the starting line. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] – Niki Scherak criticises Austrian federalism and the constitutionally planned medium-sized federal administration. [[Further calls at NEOS and FPÖ.]] - That's original. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: This is really original!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] We create by this law the balance between the necessary measures to control the virus and the greatest possible personal freedom. [[Abg. Belakovich: Mrs. Colleague, you are talking...!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] We make it clear: Private sector is private. We are creating the basis for the Coronamepel and we are creating the possibility of regionalising the measures that are urgently needed, with more precise responsibilities. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Hauser: Locking hour!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I would just like to say to you, Mr Kickl, that I am in favour of harmonizing what you are doing here. Today, there are 971,000 dead worldwide. From yesterday on, there were more deaths in the U.S., and there are 200 000 dead there. [[Abg. Kickl: That goes on! It's moving on!]] And you put yourself here and say, It doesn't matter, it's no more tragic, and it's trying to distrust this government. The Minister of Health is currently the most popular politician in Austria, and you stand on your own with your assessment that he would not do a good job in this crisis. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] The opposite is the case. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Worm: This is a... threat!]] As difficult as the basic conditions are, this government has managed to do so and will continue to be able to gain the confidence of the population. I am also convinced that people in Austria will stick to the measures – keep the distance, wash hands et cetera. Self-reliance is a very important issue, but of course we also need the legal framework to be able to take measures to keep the epidemic under control. [[Abg. Worm: Very weak speech, Mrs. Colleague!]] As far as the other things are concerned, too: We create a work foundation with a volume of 700 million euros. There has never been anything like this, even after the 2008 economic crisis. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] In many areas, we are putting in place the measures necessary to ensure that the inevitable accompanying phenomena of a pandemic can be best combated. [[Abg. Stefan: Never... businesses locked!]] [[Call at the FPÖ:... Companies forbidden to work!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Count.]] I think the trust of the population is on the side of the government and fortunately not on your side. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] You'll experience that in the next few weeks and months, I think. I find it highly irresponsible how you deal with this situation. I am still disappointed, even though it is the FPÖ, at the depth of the decline in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11065	Next speaker: Mr Gerald Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11086	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! I think the spectators have looked at the clubwoman Maurer, how she's physically ringing with her, when she needs to speak up about this whole convolut that's being presented to us. [[Congratulation with NEOS and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes!]] The population in Austria, the unemployed, but also the students, students and students have been suffering from this uncertainty for months. No one knows what next week is. People are wondering: Can I do my job? Can I go to college? Is my school open tomorrow? [[Abg. Martin Graf: But the FPÖ is to blame!]] Parents do not know if their children will be cared for next week. What people would have needed would be an everyday solution, as we can continue to live, work, and learn together. But what you're presenting is a law to lock up, lock down, and lock away. [[Congratulation with NEOS and FPÖ.]] Let's not make any illusions: No one writes a law that regulates exit locks if he does not plan to block the exit. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Anschober.]] – You know, don't come to me with the fire brigade comparison now, Minister! The fireman comes with the hose and keeps the water in reserve, but the fireman does not come with the firewood, and you do just that. [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Anschhober.]] Regulation permits shall be issued there. Parliament goes here and gives this minister, who has proved for half a year that he has not got a regulation on the line, such huge regulatory powers that he can now impose bans on persons who go so far as to prevent citizens from even using their private cars. [[Calls to the Greens.]] We must already thank ourselves for the fact that the law states that private housing is excluded from the measures. – Oh, thank you very much, you don't come into my apartment! [[Congratulation with NEOS and FPÖ.]] You can hang out roadblocks. There you have to ask yourself: Is proportionality still true? Yes, Covid-19 is a disease that poses a serious risk, one has to say; but in the meantime, we have learned a lot about the Austrian health system and it has become a good manageable risk. That's the difference from March. We have to do it with a well-controllable risk that does not justify bans on entry, exit barriers, roadblocks. We've already gotten used to it, haven't we? The Austrians have been getting used to a lot in the last six months, and this Parliament has also been getting used to a lot, a rage of regulations that no one can see through. This now leads us to get a law here, in this well-controllable health risk that allows the Minister to lock up the entire population in the private home. That's no longer proportionate! It also said in expert hearing on Monday an expert: We need to be careful about what we're getting used to. Club-wife Maurer has praised how great the review of this law was. For example, we received the first draft after the review on Sunday at 23.30 a.m. and were allowed to discuss it with the Minister on Monday at 10.30 a.m. Yes, you get used to it – and you get used to it so that when the next draft comes on Sunday at 2.30 p.m. the next week, you must be grateful that he came on Sunday afternoon and not Sunday night. The experts who were in the expert hearing on Monday did not all have the last version of this law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] What kind of expert hearing is that? This is an increase in Parliament and an increase in the number of experts who have been invited. [[Congratulation with NEOS and FPÖ.]] But we also get used to the fact that Parliament is being ridiculed, don't we? In the meantime, Parliament has only become an implementing body of this government. Who already has the balance of power between Parliament and government? The times of the self-confident delegates in the ÖVP – we remember Karlheinz Dägenle or Erwin Rasinger – are over. [[Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Now we have only the fellow swimmers who have been washed here in the short wave – and the others who have been there for a long time know that they have to be silent because they are gone – and we have a President of Parliament who does not understand himself as a counterpart to the government, but who has even proposed in March that the meeting be cancelled from 18 March and that Parliament should no longer meet. [[Abg. Salzmann: This is an insult!]] That is normal, we get used to it, and only on pressure from the opposition was a session held on 15.3. [[call to the FPÖ]] We get used to a lot. On Monday, the expert hearing was in the committee, and the Minister did not even think it necessary to say a sentence on what was submitted to empowerment law, with which you can and want to block the Republic in the future. [[new call to the FPÖ]] I'll tell you one thing: We get used to it too much. Erich Kästner drew attention to this: What happened in 1938 could not have been prevented either 1938 or 1937, which should have begun ten years earlier. – I ask you: Let's not get used to all this!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11238	Next speaker: Mr Pamela Rendi-Wagner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11269	Madam President. Dear Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm also starting to be more critical: Last week, the Federal Government again introduced corona intensifications throughout Germany. The reason for this is a much too early, much too high increase in new infections in Austria. It is now true that in Austria we have almost four times as many new infections as we have in Italy – Italy, the former European child of concern, the former hotspot in Europe. [[call to the FPÖ]] I remember very well when, at the beginning of the pandemic, the Federal Government spoke of the need to do everything we can to prevent Italian conditions. [[Abg. Belakovich:... this will be nothing...!]] Yeah, but it's not just Italy. There are 20 countries in the EU that currently have a much lower rate of new infection than we do in Austria. It is not going well, as I am quite right in your opinions which you have already given here. But the question is: How could it get that far? – We must look back in April and May of this year when the easings were carried out when the masks, as any mask obligation in the supermarket, were dropped in shops and wherever there was no plan. A signal was sent at the time, according to the motto: The virus is actually very well pushed back, everything is good! People leaned back relaxed. Planlessness was the result, and the government negligently played out the advantage we had in April to many, many European countries. – You have to be so honest! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The government played the lead, or as read in a daily newspaper on Sunday: “The government has slept the summer.” I think it's high time to wake up – or as some would say: Get together at last! Other countries have done this differently over the summer: In Germany, there was a general mask obligation in most federal countries, for example in shops. In Italy: general masking obligation in shops and restaurants. In Sweden it has not only been the famous self-responsibilities, no, there were also much stronger measures in the summer in the area of night gastronomy, in bars and at events: [[Abg. Worm: That's not a good speech, Mrs. Colleague!]] 50 people were admitted to Sweden for a maximum of events. One had an idea, one had a plan – and it worked: All are one-fifth of the Austrian cases. [[Abg. Worm: Ha, Mrs. Colleague, that's hard to argue!]] What has the Austrian Federal Government done? – It went unprepared in summer tourism. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wicker.]] She went to school unprepared – that has already been mentioned today – and there is chaos in the Austrian schools, we all know that. [[Abg. Belakovich: Do you support this? That's what you're supporting?]] I have children myself, I know how bad it is to lock classes for days because test results stand out. Many people also wonder how people arriving from risk areas such as Brazil cannot be asked to land without control at the airport. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: For this there are the Vienna lines,... punctual!]] No one's being controlled. This is Laissez-fair! Laissez-fair is very pleasant and gives relaxing signals. It should not be surprising that the population has made a little bit of Laissez-fair in recent weeks and months. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] Now, however, it is really high time to start acting from reacting, and what it now urgently needs is a plan for winter tourism. This is not just about health, it is about hundreds of thousands of jobs, Mrs Minister, and that is why these two things naturally fit together. It needs a smart, thought-out test strategy that goes beyond the pure PCR logic, with quick tests that are now very good. It needs a plan for our schools, because you can't look at all of this any longer. All of this would be reasonable and it's overdue. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also overdue and reasonable to finally repair the now existing COVID-19 Act, finally to remove these weaknesses that have existed for many months. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] This old corona law is bad. We all decided unanimously in March – I also remember the blue and the pink group here in the House! Yes, we all share responsibility for this law, and that is why we now have responsibility to repair it as soon as possible. [[Abg. Kickl: This is not the repair!]] That's where we're right now. We could've made it easy, we're in the opposition. Yes, the SPÖ could have made it quite easy, but nevertheless we have done one thing: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] We took responsibility. We have now assumed responsibility to repair this law, which has been effective for seven months, as soon as possible and to repair as best as possible in order to have a proper, constitutional law. [[Abg. Kickl: This is not a repair!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: They now give them much more competence!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Why? – Because it is serious, ladies and gentlemen. It is really serious, and it was important to observe the review and to wait for all these thousands of opinions and to read and take account of them. It was important that constitutional experts and the VfGH have expressed themselves in this regard and that this criticism has been taken seriously. Thus – and only so – necessary improvements, which were urgently necessary, could be achieved in long, intensive discussions, which Social Democracy has also conducted in recent days and last week with the experts of the Ministry of Health. At this point, I would also like to expressly thank you, Mr Health Minister, for this good basis of conversation and cooperation, and also for your officials who have done really good. [[Abg. Loacker: What do you get for it? What do you get for this submission?]] Yes, it would have been easy, Mr Loacker, to express himself – before the assessor – before the existence of a draft – just as NEOS did – and that is the easiest way to do so. [[Mr Loacker and Mr Scherak.]] That's the easiest way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to say to you: Only to do that – not to wait for a draft to be presented, and to make a fundamental opposition – is to be known by the FPÖ, since I did not expect anything else, but not by the NEOS, the party that once took place with Matthias Strolz to be another opposition party, namely the constructiveness. [[Abg. Loacker: Arrogance comes before the case! ... at your own party!]] [[Call: Here we can...]] [[Further calls to the NEOS.]] Yes, from this point of view, NEOS are far away today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'll tell you: In the biggest health crisis for 100 years, which Austria is currently experiencing, it is our responsibility to put party tactics to the side,is our responsibility to set aside electoral bouts, it is our responsibility to make our contribution constructively so that the bad, unconstitutional law is repaired as quickly as possible and as well as possible. [[Call:Hahaha]] [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] We have not deprived ourselves of this responsibility, dear NEOS. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] Significant improvements have been made. [[Abg. Scherak: The government rolled out the red carpet...!]] I have not heard much about the law, Mr Loacker – very strange – because there seems to be no more much to criticize because we have achieved the most important improvements. [[Abg. Worm: I'm just saying one word: Burgenland!]] The law was shortened in time, it now runs until mid 2021. [[Abg. Kickl: Can it be extended?]] Parliament is much better involved. It is clearly limited in time with regard to measures. [[Intervocations by Mr Belakovich and Mr Wurm.]] Overwhelming control powers, which we have at the moment and which are all working, ladies and gentlemen, have been negotiated. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] The private living area is much better protected than it is currently the case. [[Abg. Scherak: He was always protected! You need to...!]] Finally, let it just be said: If you believe that the current law, which is also unconstitutional under VfGH, is better than the legal basis for combating this crisis, then you will vote against it calmly today. [[Abg. Kickl: The government would not have needed you to have a majority!]] I'll tell you: This is a solid, improved legal basis, we need to address this health crisis. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Kickl]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11625	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gerhard Kaniakzu word reported. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11650	Mr President. Appreciate High House! I actually wanted to address the contents of the Epidemie Act and the COVID-19 Act today, but if I listen to the speeches of my two previous speakers, Mrs Rendi-Wagner and Mrs Maurer, I have to say: I need to make a few things clear before we get into the matter. In March, at the beginning of this crisis, or even before, in February, the Freedom Party made a clear statement and called for concrete measures to prevent the introduction of the Sars-Cov-2 epidemic to protect the Austrian population. That was smiled and rejected at the time. The measures we have proposed for entry restrictions were rejected in Bausch and Bow, and we have been satisfied with placebo measurements at the airport without making any actual tracking of anyone coming from a risk area. When it was actually so far that the epidemic arrived in Austria, we had the Ischgluster and obviously no one knew from us how bad the whole thing was going – there was no reliable data at that time – we were more or less required to act with collective laws that we strongly criticized at the time, to which I myself explained in advance in the expert rounds, in the committees and in the subsequent plenary sessions, that we rejected this junkimation from partly reasonable and partly massively overshadowing measures. In the sense of a national epaulment, we took these measures along at the time, but not without referring to all the insanity contained in them. That's what we did, it just wasn't taken into account. To think of it as if we had carried it all along is a mistake of the facts that we do not like. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we are already confident and transparent, Mrs Maurer, whom you have referred to, I ask you: What did you do from the information gap that existed in the Chancellor's Office's crisis staff? At the end of March, it was already known that the rate of infection was flattened by itself – solely through the discipline of the Austrian population – and that there would not have been a lockdown in Austria, especially those long-acting measures would not have been needed. What do you say about the now existing studies that show that, regardless of what regulatory measures the various governments have taken worldwide, the epidemic in all these countries has been flattened by itself within a certain period of time and shows in the final effect the proportionality of the measures – taking into account the spring – is absolutely not given? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] – You don't say anything anymore, seems to me. Now to your allegations that I would have prevented a committee appointment as the chairman of the Committee on Health. [[New call for tender Belakovich]] I am telling you what an adventure is: if, after several short-term changes, you had a new proposal for a law within two days in a - - - on Sunday, the proposal would have been dealt with by a Pseudo Health Committee on Monday, without the presence of the Minister, without a reasonable agenda on which it would only be a matter of putting the child on a mascot for a two-day review. [[Abg. Maurer:... made out as regards the time sequence!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] Not even the in-house constitutional service, which has torn the previous draft in which it was supposed to be involved, with a twelve-sided criticism in the air, has managed to deliver an opinion within this period. [[Abg. Maurer: Monday to Friday are enough days!]] Yes, I am sorry that the Health Committee has not given up on such an instrumentation! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] With your understanding of democracy, you may perhaps call yourself a democrat in North Korea, but not in this House. Now to the expert hearing: We held a health committee last Monday, just as the National Council has decided to agree to a deadline, in which we have invited five high-quality experts who have dealt with this matter. They had prepared this professionally and were, in turn, surprised by a short-term, massive revision of this new law. They did not receive these changes at all, but nevertheless, according to best knowledge and conscience, they tried to make their comments on these new changes, and there were countless critical but constructive contributions as well as demands made by the experts. What happened to it, Mr. Minister? – The amendments tabled today – you said in the Committee itself that this would be taken into account – do not concern any of the additional areas. [[Abg. Belarusian: Nothing!]] This is not worth the paper on which it has been printed, that has not been a serious take of the expert proposals. [[Keeping a document in height and tearing it]] This is not what we understand by democratically responsible law. The draft law must be rejected by us in this form.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11748	Next speaker: Mrs Gabriela Schwarz. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11772	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen here and at home! I have also prepared another speech, but because of the speeches before me I have recorded a number of keywords. Just briefly to make it clear again: We are creating the legal framework today to better meet a global pandemic. We did not wish for the pandemic, as it obviously claims some of the FPÖ, but that has happened, which has happened worldwide. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] Johns Hopkins University has just published the latest figures – colleague Maurer has already mentioned it – and we are already talking about over 30 million infections worldwide. The numbers are alarming. Mr Kickl, with Sweden: I think it is a bit cynical, given the fact that there are more than 6,000 deaths there to complain of, that Sweden has done better. - Ad one. Ad two When you read the Newsticker entry that has just arrived, you can see that in Sweden the number of infection increases so much that Sweden is thinking about more stringent measures. [[New call for tender Belakovich]] – So much for that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] By the way, in a situation such as this one, I think it is quite inevitable to be so subjective in the choice of words that one speaks, for example, of corona block guards. We don't need that – you obviously need it – because it's about making a policy for people. [[Abg. Belakovich: But that's the fact, your policy does it!]] We're all, just not a corona block guard, we're all about health. [[Abg. Belakovich: Of course!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] They know exactly how we know that health does not go without an economy and that the economy does not go without health. [[Abg. Belakovich: You share in good and evil!]] All the measures we are taking by the Federal Government, the regulations which are being put into force, the Covid-19 Act, are designed to maintain exactly this balance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] I think it is extremely reasonable to take timely steps to make winter tourism possible, for example. I welcome the fact that federal states are acting rationally. That's our concern. The pandemic will continue to soar. Of course, our hopes rest on the possibility that a vaccine will be developed as quickly as possible. You can be sure, ladies and gentlemen, it will not be vaccinated unchecked, and there will also be no vaccination – several times the opposite has been claimed – that the Federal Chancellor and the Minister of Health have clarified this several times; even there really does not need an additional explanation. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] What is very important to me at this point is, on the one hand, the legal measures and, on the other hand, what I am still relying on. Dr. Burgmann, the head of the virology of the AKH, once again stressed something about this comparison of flu and corona – we all know it and all the experts say this: [[Abg. Belakovich: You're right, the flu is more dangerous!]] First of all, there is a vaccine against the flu, and second, Corona is actually ten times as deadly as the flu, we must never forget that. [[Abg. Belakovich: That's not true!]] [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] I rely on the Austrians, on the people who live here – you can still shout so loud – my trust is theirs. We know that if we continue to respect the basic rules, wear masks, keep aside and let reason really act, we will better get through the crisis. [[Abg. Deimek: If politicians have failed as...!]] You know, colleague Engelberg is here today thanks to God again; he had been hard to catch. You say you don't know anyone who died of it: I already, and he was 32 years old, was a sportsman and wasn't predisposed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] So let's not let this go! Let's not rely on any conspiracy theories, but let's stick to data and facts! The fact is, we're dealing with a pandemic. [[Ruf:Fact is that you have the freedom...]] I rely on the reason of the Austrians, and – I have to tell you that; I have already said this at this point – I would rather be on the side of those who are looking for solutions than on the side of those who are constantly just running. A woman, a Vorarlberger, said this week in the Ö3 alarm clock that she went through the Schlosspark in Schönbrunn, saw how the summer night concert was set up and was pleased that this was possible again. She then literally said: Why don't we stop ranching? Let's wear the masks, let's stop, let's all do this together! That's what I'm relying on. Be part of it when we create the legal framework conditions, and continue to help when you are outside, just keep all this in mind! [[Abg. Belakovich:... the children, you ruin the economy!]] Be with us! I rely on that, and I wish all of us health and that we are going through it really well. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11956	Federal Minister Rudolf Anschober spoke on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11980	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My venerations Ladies and gentlemen here in the house and also at home! I personally am a very, very big friend of a lively debate in this House, which is why this has now been a very exciting phase. However, what I am sure of is that at this stage, the vast majority of Austrians, all residents of this country would expect something like a basic consensus, which is not about party-spectacles like this, but about which the health protection of Austrians, the population, is central to the focus. [[Abg. Belakovich: The spectacle...!]] [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP. – The representatives of the FPÖ hold tables with the title “Stop the turquoise-green www.Coronawahnsinsinn.at” and tablets with the inscriptions “You Destroy Austria” or “It’s Enough!” on which German Chancellor Kurz and Federal Minister Anschober are depicted.]] [[Abg. Kickl: The spectacle...!]] It is not a conventional situation! It is not a conventional situation in which we are now discussing what we are living in. We all know that we are experiencing the most severe pandemic on this planet for 100 years, even here in Austria: We're not an island that's excluded from it. We know that this pandemic has the effect of having the most severe recession in the world for 90 years, and we know that in Austria too, because of this pandemic, we have had the biggest decline in employment since the 1950s. [[call to the FPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, no matter where in the world You see, the problems in this situation, in this pandemic are everywhere the same, and also the answers, the response attempts, the struggle for solutions is everywhere the same, from New Zealand to the Philippines, from Australia to, for example, our neighbors in the Czech Republic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Abg. Deimek: There is also...!]] In reality, as with every pandemic, there are three basic measures that can protect us, namely: The one is the distance, the second is the hygiene measures and the third is the oral nose protection, and regardless of where we live, the same measures are practiced everywhere. Now perhaps Mr. Primar Kickl knows this better in the situation. [[Abg. Kickl:... Mr. Dr. Anschober!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] - Ah, now you're awake. I'm glad you're back with us. They gave such a beautiful, exciting, entertaining speech. Good thing you're back with us now! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] That's fine! How to push a button: When he hears his name, he's in a fight mood again, that's good. You've been pretty dipped for the last few minutes, but okay. So the hardest - - you qualify with each call more, that's excellent. [[Abg. Kickl: You just need it as a folk school teacher, as an uneducated one! Please!]] Good! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Belakovich:...! That's inconceivable!]] [[Abg. Stefan:... from the government bank!]] That, I think, is important – and this has already been very well worked out by several speakers – is that, of course, it is about this most serious health crisis, that the solution of this health crisis is also the basic condition for us to develop again economically and that we deal well with the social difficulties. [[Abg. Belakovich: It's about monitoring! To the surveillance!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, uh, but...!]] [[Call the FPÖ: They brought you here!]] That's in a close context, and you can't play it against each other. This is the basic prerequisite for this and we are working very, very intensively, of which you can be sure. [[Abg. Kickl: You diletate through the...!]] Things are interconnected. We know – and this actually shows all international reviews – that Austria has come through the first part of the crisis very, very well compared. Call me an industrial nation in the world that has suffered fewer deaths, which have suffered less severe diseases! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] These are the parameters on which we can be measured, which is the decisive thing. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, it is so – and unfortunately we are not alone – that this pandemic is spreading on a massive scale worldwide. Unfortunately, we have not reached its height yet. Just yesterday, the World Health Organization reported that two million new infections were reported worldwide in the last week alone. So: Whoever is impoverished, who makes this abject, is really no longer to help! Over the summer, despite the opening steps, the situation in Austria was stable. Yes, we have realized many opening steps, and I believe that this was also responsible. In the meantime, however, we are in the situation – and this must be said very honestly – that it has been in Austria since about 8. There were significant increases in September. In order for you to understand this beautifully, I also presented it graphically and brought it along. [[The speaker holds a curve diagram up to the height with which he then illustrates his statements]] [[Call: You can't read that]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Is still wurch!]] That was the situation of the great peak of our crisis that we had in mid-March. Then the situation has been very, very stable – these are the numbers of the actively ill – and then we have from 8th. ==References====External links== [[The speaker holds a different curve diagram in the height.]] What you see at the end of the day, in the last few days, is now September, which has been brought out here, and this shows that we have done it – all of us: a strong health system, all those who strive to do so in many areas, many, many people who live it, who live the implementation – that we have achieved a stabilisation and an end to this strong growth in the last few days – and that is good that way. [[Abg. Stefan: Is now an exponential curve, isn't it?]] [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Now you can...!]] That is another first step in the right direction. What do we have in numbers today? – It goes to all those who are interested, and I think that’s a significant part: We stand today at 681 new infections, i.e. this stabilisation, but at a high level, continues. At the same time, we had 637 Neugeneseseses in the last 24 hours and are currently 8 258 actively ill. [[Abg. Stefan: Sick or infected?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] 16 617 tests were carried out and registered. This is a lot more than the number of tests we carried out in Austria in spring, and this is also partly the case with the increasing number. [[Abg. Stefan: Mr Health Minister, Sick or Infected?]] The decisive thing, however, is that the number of hospitalizations now begins to rise significantly again, and this is, of course, a very alarming development, because at the heart of our work is to keep the number of these hospitalizations as stable as possible and to avoid there being a significant increase. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Yesterday I again had a long meeting with our expert advisory board, with our experts from the field of virology, from the classical-medical sector, from the public-health sector, and all of us agree that Austria is currently on the way: Either by sharing, by implementing the measures and by the measures already implemented, by creating a stabilisation and again a gradual reduction of the figures – that is possible, that is feasible – or by tilting into an exponential increase for which in these days between 8 and 17 and 18 it is possible. It also gave clues on September, and thus on a second wave. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of all the differences in party policy, we could create a fundamental consensus in that we say: Yes, the first goal of all of us – in the face of all the difficulties we have otherwise – must be that there is no longer a second lockdown in Austria, because it would be fatal economically, it would be devastating to health policy, and it would also make us very difficult in the social situation in Austria. That means keeping the death toll as low as possible, i.e. keeping the number of active cases as low as possible. Yes, my venerations. Ladies and gentlemen, what does this Covid law bring? Some have acted as if it were a completely new law. – It’s a innovation, it’s a massive improvement compared to the status quo, a status quo that we all realized together under an extreme time pressure. Of course, you can then make improvements from the experience, from a distance. I believe that this has been absolutely successful, and I really want to thank all 14 000 who have participated in this discussion, who have made many constructive proposals. Many of these we have realized in this novel, and the decision of this law will bring Austria a big step further forward. Among the 14 000 was also a constructive opinion of the NEOS Group, in which it put forward concrete proposals. By the way, we have actually implemented the vast majority of these proposals, namely the substantial, strong ones. That is why your protest is really quite unexplainable to me today. Perhaps this has something to do with the election campaign in Vienna, but this is just a presumption. [[Interim calls at FPÖ and NEOS.]] What have we improved in this COVID-19 Act? . We now have the legal opportunity to implement and implement the minimum distance in Austria. This is a very important, in fact undisputed measure, which can be legally anchored. Secondly, there are more opportunities for the federal states to take action. I think it is good, right and important that the federal states, which best know the immediate situation on the ground, can expand our federal measures in accordance with this law, or can anchor additional measures. I think that's important. Thirdly, we have now legislated the traffic light and the traffic light commission. This is also important because in order to be able to assess the risk situation in Austria, half of Europe is now envying us because it allows for a highly professional analysis of the risk situation. [[Abg. Deimek: At least!]] [[Abg. Kickl: I can imagine that!]] A very important area, ladies and gentlemen, in which you should actually be most interested: There are now more control options with this novel compared to the previous law. There is more transparency, there is more efficiency, and we have achieved better standards of democracy policy. Incontrovertible is that in many important areas, this novelle – which has actually led to an enormous improvement of the existing law by all experts, all recognized lawyers in the expert hearing in this House. And again: I would like to thank all those who have contributed to this. Yes, my venerations. Ladies and gentlemen, this basic consensus, which was in Austria in spring, we need again. In spring, obviously, party politics was not the primacy, but the goal was to overcome this most severe pandemic and the most severe recession together for 100 and 90 years, as Austria. From my point of view, we need this spirit again, that is the decisive one, and then – I am very, very confident – we will get through this second part of the crisis well. What do we want to achieve? – We want to stabilize the numbers as much as possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] We want to achieve that there is no further escalation, we want to achieve that there are as few deaths as possible, and we want to cope well with time until there is a secure vaccination. I am very sure that, when vaccinations are released in Europe, we will have a secure product, probably even several secured vaccines at the table, after common risk assessments, after checks, according to all the standards we have developed in Europe. [[Abg. Kickl: In January, right?]] [[Abg. Belakovich:... whether we want or not!]] I would just ask you not to play with the emotions if I heard the call again: “Whether we want or not”. Now we've all given each other the guarantee that this is voluntary. [[Mr Belakovich and Mr Kickl: You have said so much!]] Then why do you still play with the emotions and angry fears in this context? [[Abg. Belakovich: That's what the right one is talking! That's what the right one is talking!]] Every person in Austria will be free to choose, and our job in the government is to ensure that there is enough vaccine for everyone in Austria, and we will do so. [[Abg. Belakovich: You've been agitating fears for months!]] We will do that, and we will also be responsible for it as a strong European Union. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: You're agitating the fears!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, only two sentences on the critical votes I have heard today: One thing: Mr Kickl, a few months ago you were still the pioneer in Lockdown, with a hell pace, have demanded, demanded, demanded, and today you are the chief coronary of the Republic. [[Abg. Kickl: Time has not stopped!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] I really don't understand. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] You know, a lot of people in this Austria are happy that you are no longer in the government, especially in this crisis situation, because many think that this would be life-threatening. [[Abg. Belakovich: And how many would be happy if you were no longer in the government?- Oh, my God!]] [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Hauser: This is a naughtiness!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Everything you have done wrong so far! That's incredible!]] I am surprised by the fact that NEOS gives up for this peculiar alliance between Coronaverharmosers and Coronaleugners. Finally, I would like to thank you once again for the constructive opinions, and I am glad that we also received suggestions that we have been able to implement in this law. – Thank you very much for your broad approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12512	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Nikolaus Scherak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12534	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Right ahead, Minister of State: I strongly reject something: first of all, that I am impoverished with Corona, and second that I am concerned with any election campaign. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Since I've been here in the house and since I've been doing politics, it's about two things: This is first of all that our federal constitution is respected, and second, that our fundamental and freedom rights are not restricted by charge. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] I did that when Minister of the Interior Kickl did this, I did so when the ÖVP restricted our fundamental and freedom rights, I did so as SPÖ ministers did, and I do just as much with you, because you all the time intervene with your laws on fees in fundamental and freedom rights. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] If we look at this law, which we are now discussing here again, which is to be innovationd, and the balance sheet, then we know by the end of August that we had a large number of abuses in Austria, that we had 30,000 ads that 6 million euros had to be paid in penalties by the population – and all this because of a regulation from your house that the Constitutional Court has abolished as illegal. This would have been without it, if one had a minimum degree of sensitivity in constitutional terms. Unfortunately, this is missing from you, which is missing in your house and that is still missing from the ÖVP. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] The problem is – and this is the difference between the Greens and the ÖVP – that the ÖVP is doing these omnipotential fantasies. You know, of “juristical pranks”, says the Federal Chancellor. I do not know how many laws have landed and been repealed before the Constitutional Court in recent years, which has led the ÖVP responsible. You know, the Federal Chancellor doesn't care if it comes to the Constitutional Court, because he says: Then it's no longer valid – I don't really care about it, he's supposed to do what he wants! That was not the case with the Greens earlier, and we have x-times pointed out that this original regulation cannot be in conformity with law. You didn't care. Now that you have failed to provide sufficient testing capacity in the summer, after contact tracking in individual areas is obviously not - - Okay, I don't know, Minister of State. [[Interference of Federal Minister Anschober.]] [[Abg. Kickl: But he's a gifted lawyer! The instigator is a gifted lawyer!]] I don't want to talk about your training, I'm a learned constitutional judge, I know the Austrian federal constitution very well, and I'm going to tell you exactly - - - well, then you're better acquainted with the missing test capacities. [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Anschhober.]] Let's get to it: You know me there, I know my territory, and that's constitutional law, and that's certainly not yours. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] After you have made a wrong order, you now bring a law that includes even more omnipotential fantasies, which gives you even more competences. Mrs. Clubobfrau Rendi-Wagner said that the SPÖ had been so constructively involved in the process. – Mrs Klubobfrau, you were not in the hearing in the Health Committee, your Constitutional Spokesman, Jörg Leichtfried, was not in the hearing in the Health Committee. The SPÖ Group was not even able to deliver an opinion in the review procedure, it simply did not receive it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kucher]] The SPÖ was not even able to send the right bill to the expert nominated by it. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Cuckoo.]] He was sitting there and didn't know what was being discussed. – So much on the subject “constructively introduced”. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and MEPs of the Greens.]] There are even more competences for you, Mr Federal Minister, and you are right to say that we have called for the main committee to be involved, and you think that the most serious things will then be settled. The problem, however, is: That's just not true. The main committee will then be involved when it comes to federal restrictions. They may be issued with a district captain, with a district chief without the involvement of the main committee. You can do the same with a national captain. That is to say, the main committee is not permanently involved, and it is able to beat purple trees – that is totally irrelevant – and you can continue to adopt comprehensive bans of action without involving this Parliament. Furthermore, involvement of the main committee: I am delighted to see who will then give you the head of the main committee by the courageous colleagues of ÖVP and Greens. The Greens are not even able to vote for the reception of refugee children. I'm waiting for them to be in the main committee and say: No, no, Minister of State, we are resisting your ban on entry! – This will be an exciting situation. [[Congratulation with NEOS and FPÖ.]] The second insanity from my point of view is that with these bans to enter through the back door, you can again make a comprehensive lockdown in these individual areas. In the case of bans in § 4 there are no exceptions. There are no longer the three, four, or five reasons to go out of the house, according to law, you do not have to make any exceptions. You can completely lock people in individual districts. Moreover, there is nothing to say that the health system must somehow collapse. § 4 states that you can impose bans on entry if it is necessary to restrict the spread of Covid. [[Abg. Kickl: Whatever that means!]] You can block the entire population away in individual districts, in individual federal states, without this Parliament being involved, and I think that is fundamental. [[Congratulation with NEOS and FPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister, you can tell me you're not going to do this. But the problem is: We gave you the opportunity to ban certain public places when we passed this first law here. What did you do? – You have closed the entire public space. Believe me, the trust of my side is at least not because you do not use all the competences provided by this law again. The further, almost constitutional highlight was that you originally intended that a law which this Parliament adopts would give the Federal Government the possibility of delaying the expiry date of the law. I wonder if anyone else has heard of a division of violence! This Parliament will pass laws, this Parliament will decide when laws will come into force – this will certainly not be done by means of regulatory empowerment to the Federal Government, so that the Federal Government can do this alone! [[Congratulation with NEOS and FPÖ.]] Yesterday at 20.56 a.m., the Greens also insisted that it may not have happened particularly well to give the Federal Government the opportunity to extend the laws by decree. At 20.56 a.m., the Greens also understood that this is not a useful variant. You know, one can discuss for a long time whether it was constitutional or not. I'm convinced: With such massive restrictions on fundamental and freedom, there is no case for the federal government to extend laws. This is the task of this Parliament, and anyone who takes himself seriously as a parliamentarian should also be responsible for this. [[Congratulation with NEOS and FPÖ.]] To what you're proposing now: Yes, now the main committee is allowed to speak with you – it may be annoying that as a member of a political group that is not represented in the Federal Council, I am going to address the Federal Council here again – but you are all leaving the Federal Council outside. The Federal Council is not included in the extension of this law; yes, the main committee will be involved – by the way, not all Members, but only part of it – but not the Federal Council. Whether or not this is constitutional is still going to be shown. The fact that the ÖVP has not had a great interest in Parliament since Sebastian at the latest is nothing new. The fact that the Greens have long given up their ideas of the rule of law and democracy since they entered the Federal Government is nothing new. But that the once so proud social democracy – it was your predecessors who fought for co-determination at all that there are parliaments – is that you are now putting the two to the slide and fighting for Parliament to be lifted out, I think it is an insanity. [[Congratulation with NEOS and FPÖ.]] There have never been such extensive competences in this country for a minister together with a district captain to lock people away. This is the most comprehensive attack on fundamental and freedom rights in this country, and we are sure not to give this consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12696	Mr Ralph Schallmeiner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12727	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! In-depth on colleagues Kickl – he mentioned earlier that it is undisputed that the protective masks in the face are harmful to health –: Mr Kickl, for example, I recommend reading facts checkers such as corrective.org or Mimikama. There you can find out what that really is. It's a little different than you said. It might not be bad. You know, more facts, less Trumpism. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Nevertheless: Let us come to the real issue we want to talk about here! I do not know how you all did, I have received quite a lot of e-mails, notifications, letters et cetera from people who have addressed us, who have just expressed their opinion on this bill. There were several thousand opinions made in these two reviews, and we are already entitled to take these thousands of opinions seriously, and we have done so. By the way, I can recall legislative proceedings, for example in the 2002 UG – I do not know whether Mr Graf is still inside here, he was there at the time – as hundreds, I think, have simply been thrown away by thousands of negative opinions from those responsible at the time. In this case, this has not happened, but we have looked at it very closely and have included it very precisely in the legislative process. Why did we do that? – It has already been mentioned today: It is about a balance between the measures needed to combat a pandemic – even if there are some here who believe that there is no pandemic anymore; but there is it, it is real, 200,000 dead in the USA, 5 870 dead in Sweden, over 30 million infected worldwide, I think these are clear figures and facts – on the one hand and personal freedom from everyone and everyone here in the house and outside, so in the population on the other side. I think no, I'm even sure we've done this quite well. What have we done or what does this law really say in it? – On the one hand, it is a legal basis for the much quoted traffic lights. We have made a division of competence between the federal government, the states and the districts; the Corona Commission is being anchored in order to bring together an evidence-based policy – that is something some here obviously do not fully understand –; a lockdown is only possible for ten days; far-reaching measures such as a lockdown are only possible in agreement with the main committee; Measures are only possible if relief funds have not been sufficient; further, as has already been said, the five reasons why compliance with an initial restriction is not possible – as minimum standards, please be nice; in the discussion, it is always very much forgotten or dropped that these are the minimum standards. That is the minimum we have committed within it, and there are also many, much more ways of making it easy. The contact tracking turned out again because we also saw: Okay, that's definitely a data protection problem. All right, we have to take that out. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cuckoo.]] The law itself is limited in time. Yes, and the health authorities will or can now also review or look at the implementation of prevention concepts on the ground. – That’s why it’s not about anything else! It is not about a so-called “roll command, ” as has just been said. Please, I deeply reject this term, even because of the historical contexts. Nor is it a question of calling out to the police state how it came from the FPÖ on Monday in the Health Committee, but it is simply a matter of making a reasonable legislation in the fight against a pandemic. Because I just mentioned it: We also had the expert hearing on Monday. Five experts were here, five experts who were quite different. Four of them were not necessarily just negative, three of them were very, very positive, and we have also included appropriate proposals for improvement, which I now wish to make in the form of a request. It is an amendment which, in the meantime, has also been distributed here in the House, it is the request which Mr Scherak has just referred to, which was made yesterday evening to the political groups. On the whole, this request concerns the introduction of new renewal arrangements – Mr Scherak has already implemented it – to introduce new regulations and specificisations for events, in addition to a further clarification of the exceptions to the initial restrictions, that this is simply even clearer, some editorial adjustments and more transparency at the Corona Commission mentioned above. These are the facts, we're talking about them. I would like to conclude by quoting Mr Bürstmayr, who was also a legal representative of our group on Monday in the Committee on Health, as he said: This law is something like a sprinkler plant that I built into my house; I'm glad if I never have to use it. I would also be glad if we would never have to use this law, but it is good to know that we have it, because when it comes to burning, it protects me from this law. - Quote. In this sense: Thank you, I hope you will give me broad support; Thanks to the SPÖ for being constructive, thanks also to NEOS, who – even though they are probably against today – have made quite good, constructive proposals, of which we have taken very, very many into account! Perhaps the FPÖ will eventually come up with what is constructive cooperation and cooperation; obviously not today. - Thank you. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[13:40]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12956	The amendment is sufficiently supported, properly filed and under negotiation. Mrs Dagmar Belakovich has now been reported to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12983	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Health at the Government! [[The speaker presents a panel on which German Chancellors Kurz and Federal Minister Anschober are depicted, over which a blue bar with the white letter “It is enough!” is drawn to the speaker’s desk.]] We are now in the middle of a debate that is a real low point. The first low point is that today a law is passed, which massively intervenes in fundamental and freedom rights. This has already been explained in detail by Mr Scherak, but also by many others, and it is likely that further comments will be made. The second thing that happened here today was you, Minister of Health! This embarrassing polemic of the government bank is really looking for the same. Do you know that just you stand up and think you want to make fun of others, is really yelling at the balance sheet you've presented in the last half year to heaven! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have proved it again today: You really don't know what you're talking about. You stand here, explain the numbers to us. - Very nice. Then tell you something about the sick. – So first of all, you have listed positive tests, and that is not a disease. That's if you want to, infected, but not even agree, but it's not a disease. You know what you didn't say? – That's what you've actually revealed: You have also said that the number of hospitalized rise again. I'm sorry, but the But you didn't mention the numbers because you know very well, with the 600 hospitalized you can't spread fear and panic now. Stiff instead You're talking about something about global numbers and the panic and health care you need to fix. You tell some fantasy numbers to start the panic again and spread the fear slogans again, and at the same time say you're scared! [[pointing to the FPÖ]] Did you even get involved in what has been happening in this Republic for months? When we asked for the lockdown in February when we called for something to happen, the government refused, said: It's all right! – This government will not react until anything happens. Then the lockdown was called out, and what happened? - Yeah, nothing at all! People were locked up, but at the airport Schwechat arrived the same day, the next day the plane landed from China. You didn't do anything at all, there you were in the Dornröschen castle and in the Dornröschenschlaf. What You offer here is a embarrassing political show, ladies and gentlemen! They do nothing but permanently repeat any numbers of any deceased and see how bad everything is. You have to talk about this second wave with all your violence, because you have to have a reason for it when a real wave comes – and it is in spring 2021, namely the pleite wave and the unemployment wave. In this context, it is also interesting that the Minister of Labour is sitting here. That's important – but what have you prepared, Mrs. Labour Minister? You don't know anything. How will you react to these unemployment figures? – There is nothing from the Ministry of Labour, silence, one cannot actually say what is really happening there. This, ladies and gentlemen, is also a reason why we have to bring this motion of censure here today. We have to bring him in, because of what is happening here, we are committed to submitting this motion for a distrust. These are political mannequins sitting here. They don't have anything to say, they don't do anything either. There is a minister who forgets six zeros at the budget; then there is a minister who speaks of the perils of life who divides this republic into the good and the evil, into the good life-savers and into the wicked. And you, Mr. Health Minister – now you laugh – are just sitting on it, stigmatizing people who have infected themselves. They say: Why don't you get together? Sage You're actually going to be HIV-sick, right? Get together! Do you know what that means? – They stigmatize people, and that goes so far that people today are afraid to infect themselves, but not because they are afraid of the disease, but because they fear that they are guilty of infecting others because they fear that their operation must be locked up. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] People are afraid of that! I ask you, Mr Minister, because you yourself were sick once too, you were in the sick for half a year: Didn't you tear yourself together? – Thinking After all, what you're talking about, what you're saying to the people, Mr. Federal Minister! This policy you pursue is blatant. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] No one's to blame when he's infected, no one! Sickness can happen to anyone, ladies and gentlemen! There is no conflict, and there is no one to blame, there are neither vacationers nor others to blame. That can happen and that is not planned either. There's also the one who doesn't wear a mask inside here. By the way: With these funny cobbles, we're all sure anyway, aren't we? [[in allusion to the glass partition walls that have been placed on the Members' desks]] So stop saying, These are the good, and these are the evil ones. – This has led to advertisements. While the numbers have fallen, you have shown the people sitting on the park bankerl, you have shown mothers whose children have played ball. That's what you did. Car drivers have been stopped because they were traveling in the wrong district. This is the policy of this federal government. They have screwed up and up the scarve, and last but not least, we are being presented with a law here today which is massively restricting the rights of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, this is going towards ÖVP: I can still remember the 2017 election campaign when the German Chancellor – the current – stood up and said he was for direct democracy. Well, if that's the case and if this law is as impressively good as you told us all, then you'll have a referendum! In this sense, I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you do not agree with this today, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you: Even if our present distrust request probably does not receive a majority, there has been a reason why in June 2019 this Federal Chancellor was elected with his entire government, and it will be time – and this time will come – that he will be able to do it again. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: I don't believe!]] [[13:47]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13158	The request for a referendum is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore also under negotiation. The word is now known as Mag. Jörg Leichtfried. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13185	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! It has already been a politically very memorable summer that we have experienced: a federal government that has provided the best of both worlds – not in the positive sense, but in failures, in jealousy, in staging, in conflict, in permanent press conferences and in boring speeches; a federal government that has managed at the same time to completely merge relatively reasonable things such as a corona app or a coronamepel; a federal government that has failed to prepare for this difficult time, which is now due to us, and which can boast of smelting the time for further corona preparation throughout the summer, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The congestion, the travel warnings, the travel warnings that developed from them were only mild predictions of what suddenly happened to us as a new Covid law, which was clearly unconstitutional, to which we clearly and clearly said that we will never agree, and which then went back to the start due to our suggestions and the pressure of the entire opposition. We could have done the same as the FPÖ, for example: to lean back in the permanent Waldorf and Statler round and to comment on a little and not to contribute much and then to become personally attacked in their argumentationlessness, but to be unable to argue again why the new law would now be so bad. [[Abg. Belakovich: We delivered an opinion!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Because it's the same as the old one!]] – Mr Kickl, hello, I would have something for you: In the hearing, your expert found a single point that would be dangerous: A police state threatens, he said. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] If the police state threatens, Mr. Kickl! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That's the situation. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Amazing is the behavior of NEOS. As one now seems to practice fundamental opposition – well, he already goes a biterl, doesn't go so bad. [[Abg. Kickl:... see what business went on there!]] I know this is an incredibly sensitive issue, and I know it's also legally difficult, and I know you can also discuss some things from a constitutional point of view, but it was already Mr Heinz Mayer, Karl Stöger, Clemens Jabloner, Georg Krakow, Bernd-Christian Funk, who said that this law is constitutionally in order. Well, they will already have an opinion on this, ladies and gentlemen of the NEOS. [[Conspicuousness with SPÖ and greens as well as with the Abg. Wöger.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] I come back to the point concerning this regulatory authority for the first time to extend the time-limitation of a law referred to by Mr Scherak: That is exactly what we voted unanimously here in April for another law, with NEOS, with the liberals. So I only think of this: The NEOS do not know everything, but they are trying to give the impression of knowing everything better in this Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This cheap effect rabbit is not our access, we are responsible as opposition. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak]] [[Call of the Abg. Belakovich]] I am not surprised now that Mr Kickl referred to the term “Judaslaan”. [[Abg. Worm: That hurts you, gal?]] Who, if anyone from the Ibiza Party, comes up with such a thought, ladies and gentlemen? - Certainly not us! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why there has been a great deal of success. It has succeeded in achieving quite a lot. It was our pressure that led to - - - where were you last night when we were negotiating? [[Abg. Kickl: I'm curious about the cow trade, what comes to light!]] – You refused, it was you who knew what came out of it, chief thing, you are against it! Nevertheless, things have been accomplished, many things that are good and positive. [[Abg. Kickl: Your refusal of reality...!]] I think it is also the task of the opposition to ensure if it is necessary and if the government really does not bring anything together, that the Austrians benefit from this policy as a whole and that we lead our country into a good, safe and healthy future. That's our job, and you should take an example!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13359	Mr Josef Schellhorn. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13383	Mr President. Federal Minister! It is now about this law, and as we all have experienced, the new blockage has been proclaimed in the past days or yesterday in the West. It's really interesting now to know who it was: If you were the Minister of Health, was it the Chancellor of the Federal Republic, or was it the heads of state? Perhaps you could give us an answer to this, because it is important to know who has authorized it now, who has issued this regulation, because it is not comprehensible either. Throughout the summer or in spring, I talked about certain sectors – perhaps night gastronomy or other – need special treatment – special treatment, a shield, something to protect themselves from these cluster formations. I've been talking about this shield all summer. It's a summer absence, because you could have prepared for it all summer, because all summer you have said for yourself, a second wave will come and the curves will rise again. Just what did you do? – It has not been done in this respect and it is basically not a follow-up improvement or better knowledge, because it was simply a show team all summer. [[Abg. Deimek: The Rudi was just...!]] Do you know what I'm doing as an entrepreneur? – There are plans, you think, it goes up again, 14 days ago the Federal Chancellor said that light is at the end of the tunnel – and we all knew that it is the train that comes across us, but nothing else. He's still talking about positive signals, and 14 days later, it's quite different. Where are your mathematicians? Where are your computers? All summer, you said: The second wave will come. Now we have them there and now we have to save winter tourism with the closure of hotels and restaurants at 10 am. How absurd is it? I'm sick of that! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I'm tired of being ruled by a show team of politicians. [[Abg. Obernoster: Well, well, well!]] I wrote it this way: I'm tired of getting humanity down as an emotionality. I am tired of being ruled by a Hobby Finance Minister and a side winner and drawn into the election campaign, namely in the Vienna election campaign. I'm tired of that. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I'm tired of having a chancellor whose formula is only me. I'm tired of that. I'm tired of it because what you're doing and not doing today is pushing people into nothing, pushing entrepreneurs into nothing. But what is nothing? – Nothing is empty, Minister, Minister, nothing is the tenth conversation with the bank official, for example, if you as an entrepreneur do not know how to pay a thirteenth. Nothing is the shame when you come home and look your family in the face and know it's not going on for long. That's nothing. Nothing is the moments in which you have to lock up your business and hand over the key to the landlord. Nothing, for example, is bubbling in front of the chamber functionaries and rulers, because if something happens, if you don't kiss, then it is crossed. That's where you put them a little under pressure and then they come. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] For me, the nothing is actually the asleep rage on the ruling class, which moves your thumbs up or down. That's what happens. We can talk about it, Karlheinz, and I will soon give you an example of where this happens. [[towards Abg. Head shaking his head]] Nothing is a great feeling for me, and you can only understand that if you are close to the companies that are with the people who are unemployed. This government is not close to it, and that's fact.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13461	Dr Josef Smolle is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13486	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In this legislative novel, which we decide today, it is a matter of ensuring the basic legal framework that we can do well and make targeted measures by means of a regulation if it is necessary. A major feature of this new law is that numerous protective loops have been removed. One of the most important is that the National Council's main committee must agree, especially in the case of incisive measures. But there are also other safety loops, such as the legal anchoring of the Corona Commission, which is obliged to take evidence-based action that is obliged to make the whole transparent. All regulations, all measures must be proportionate – in a double sense: First of all, they must be necessary, and second, they must be suitable/effective for the specific situation, on the one hand at the federal level, and on the other hand also with the possibility of being implemented differently for individual regions. All these protective loops are a very essential democratic element and a very positive aspect of this legislative innovation. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Maurer.]] This is also very important, because it is, of course, a question of personal freedom and its limitation. We all know that freedom is indivisible. That sounds like a contradiction now. Freedom is indivisible by having to be true for everyone living in our country, for every person in the world, but it is possible only if every single person, every single one of us, is willing to give up on a part of our own freedom every day and thus make life possible for all in freedom and health and development. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] This is precisely what it is all about, and if we are all ready, if it is necessary to take account of simple measures, to implement them, then we will also be told further restrictive measures and hopefully not need them. This has nothing to do with a police state, ladies and gentlemen, but it is an expression of a solid, solid democratic society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13543	Mrs. Dr. Susanne Principal has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13567	Mr President. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The director of a gymnasium in Vienna has just committed his class board to taking drastic measures at school against students who violate the corona requirements [[Abg. Deimek:... get going!]] The mask requirement and the distance keeping should also be strictly monitored and controlled during the breaks in the class. The director requires teachers to warn students who violate the requirements in front of the class. The parents will receive a written warning about the threat of disciplinary action up to the Disciplinary Conference. Minister of Education Fässmann is asking parents by letter to give their consent to mass screenings. Completely healthy students should simply run tests! In the Carinthian street, people have to face a big mobile business, they are only allowed to enter after the fever measurement – if they pass this test. Completely healthy people are put in quarantine in mass – two weeks of house arrest with daily police visit under threat of severe punishment. And then it is said here that society will not be split! Nor should there be a corona block guard, says Mrs Schwarz. But the city of Vienna is looking for thousands of contact trackers – that is actually the modern name for Coronablockwarte for me. I really have to congratulate the Federal Government: Within months – They are not even a year in office – you have succeeded in putting the population into a state of fear and oppression. You have raised an unmerciful regime, and you have many, many people – countless! – hit the bad luck and don't stop it. The Minister is not here, but with this draft law he provides the basis for excessive attacks on the fundamental rights of citizens: on personal freedom, on freedom of movement, on physical integrity and on freedom of employment. For all that he has already enforced by regulations in spring – until the lockdown he has hanged, but should not have hanged – he now has the legal basis. Now he has just made himself and has spoken here of hygiene measures, of oral nose protection, of hand washing and so on, and that this will be in the law. Mrs Rendi-Wagner speaks of an improved law she would now give constructive approval. But what is included in the law? – There are bans on starting to the complete lockdown inside, there are public space bans – for individual, specific places, as well as for the entire public space. There are also bans in the private sector, namely for private associations, workplaces, businesses – they will be looked at, everyone can now be checked and visited, everyone has to expect to visit the authorities, everything can be ordered. The masquerading obligation for employees, the removal: everything can be ordered and the businesses can be arbitrarily harassed. We must now no longer use private cars without further information, which can be completely forbidden. As we know – that has been said by Federal Chancellor Kurz – the virus is happy to drive by car. This is what the Minister of Health calls an improvement in democracy policy – very provocative. The Federal Government ignores the fact that now – after half a year – God knows that the Corona virus is not as dangerous as it is feared. It will be in the area of influenza or easily commuting about it, but you don't want to know that. You act with this law, which is being passed here today, as if the corona virus were the plague and as if you had not yet gained any knowledge. The law is completely undetermined in content, all measures are disproportionate. It is only due to the alleged overload of the health system, which is threatening, which is not at all true. In March the utilization of intensive care stations was up to 26 percent. We have a lot of places. And if you were afraid of that, you would simply have created additional capacities in summer! The second criterion is the number of infections, and it's not about the disease, it's about positive tests. The second wave is being tested right now. It is desperately tested, but unfortunately only 0.08 percent of Austrians are tested positively – among them many healthy and very few sick – but you don't want to see it all. You just want the second wave. One would like to examine the exponential increase, the state of disaster. The travel warnings have also been tested. – And then you want to spend yourself as a savior of the economy! The Minister of Health comes from my federal state, from Upper Austria. There the doctor's chamber got together, she took courage and said: There's no second wave! There's a test wave, a test tsunami. – It is designed to carry out tests only in people with serious illness symptoms, only to be suitable for these tests. She wants reason and self-responsibility, and she calls for politics to stand out from medicine. Yes, more people will suffer seriously again in autumn and winter, and more people will die again, just like every year. By the way, more than 80 000 people die each year in Austria, least of them on the corona virus, but in the next few years perhaps a part of it will die on the corona virus. We must live with this infectious disease, as well as with others already existing. The measures in the law are all disproportionate, unwarranted, and one really has to tell the government: It is not the virus that is currently and in the coming months destroying the economy, destroying the labour market, our fundamental rights, the prosperity, the destruction of society – our children must live in such a climate of fear – it is the Federal Government that destroys it, also with the help of this law, which is being adopted here, and therefore it is also justified to distrust the Federal Government here!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13604	Magnificence comes to the fore. Georg Bürstmayr. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13628	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I've been a lawyer with the Public Law Specialty for over 20 years. I've been following a number of law enforcement processes. I have also reviewed some laws for the Bar in these 20 years, and I must say that I would have liked governments, which were then different, to have carried out such an intensive process, to have heard so intensely about criticism and to have received as many proposals made in the review process as was the case with that law. [[Abg. Anger: First, you have to make such a bad law!]] I have often experienced enough that, after a review procedure, it was simply passed over, original legislative drafts were passed completely unchanged, with the result that some law from the era of Schwarz-Blau did not keep before the Constitutional Court. Perhaps this is also a piece of green manuscript, that criticism is heard that proposals are accepted that are being negotiated with parties until it is possible that once an opposition party participates in such a law. [[Call the SPÖ:Yes, sure!]] What is created by this law? – No instruments of oppression, no – I do not know – abolition of fundamental and freedom rights, as FPÖ claims to have read clearly without the law at all, and now, to my great regret, also insinuate NEOS, but: The Minister of Health is given a very differentiated tool box for dealing with the biggest health crisis for 100 years, with a detailed user guide, which he can do with what tool when he is allowed to use it and when not. That's called a bad law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13675	It is now possible to speak. Hannes Amesbauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13697	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen – also the television viewers – today is a sad day for democracy in Austria. The Republic will be another with the decisions that are now being taken. The democratic and free rule of law is under massive attack and is given massive totalitarian powers. We then have the strong state, which can and wants to intervene in the smallest areas of the citizen's life – in fact, these are tendencies and currents that we have not known so far in the history of the Second Republic – although there was a fundamental consensus that we do not want such overwhelming measures, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The fundamental rights will be severely cut, and the division of powers, as we have heard, will be partially eliminated with the powers given to the Minister of Health. In addition, it is becoming the most powerful man in this Republic who can work around by means of regulations, as he likes, and can massively affect the lives of the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, district authorities, the bras, can then enter establishments, workplaces and certain places to control compliance with the entire Corona editions and sniff in all documents – without judicial decision! This is a scandal – and it will be possible to say that too – that is a sourry, ladies and gentlemen. It can't be! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Saury?! Mr President.]] People can even be banned from using their own car. There can be general bans – that is, nothing other than that people can be forced to stay in their private homes or homes under house arrest. There are then great exceptions from the generous Minister – five are the ones; I think they have not yet been discussed in detail. I read them shortly: Exception one – in order to leave the private area so that you can leave your own house, your own apartment at all –: ‘Averting a direct danger to body, life and property’. – Thank you very generously, Minister, for allowing people to leave their homes when it burns! This is really very, very welcome from you: If the cabin burns, I'm allowed to leave the house, otherwise not. Exception two: ‘Serviceing and providing assistance to persons in need and exercising family rights and fulfilling family obligations’. – Thank you for allowing me to help people who need my help if that is perhaps the grandparents! Excluding three: ‘To meet the essential needs of daily life’. – Thank you for allowing me to buy me something to eat, Mr. Anschhober! Very generous of you! Excluding four: ‘professional purposes, if necessary’. – Yes, thank you for being allowed to go to work or go to work for those people who are still working and who still have work despite your actions! And the last of course: “Reside in the open for physical and mental recovery”. – This is also an exception. How generous! Instead of you coming here as Minister of Health and saying to people: You can always leave your house, you can always stay outdoors, you can also make extensive hikes!, because this is known to strengthen the immune system and mental well-being, this is an exception that you need to justify so that you can leave the house. This is no longer normal, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the regulation goes so far – now, apart from what we decide today – that the new COVID-19 measure regulation, which has now entered into force on Monday, also provides that the club life is seriously affected, that club meetings should not even be held in a guest house if more than ten people participate. That means that not even a common table of a savings club may take place. – I can't do that, ladies and gentlemen. Then you say seriously – almost all the speakers of the black and green coalition have emphasized this –: Well, we don't want to use it, we just need it for the absolute emergency. – Well, of course you want to apply it, otherwise you wouldn’t do it! These are: We don't do that anyway!, remind me of the historical statement: “No one has the intention to build a wall!” – So you will draw this card very well, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In view of this work, every democrat – and I urge you to make use of the free mandate – has to cry out the alarm bells. The only applause you really get for it may be that of Engelbert Dollfuß – wherever this gentleman is now, ladies and gentlemen. This has nothing to do with democracy. By the way, you also have the traffic light, with which you drive around and turn around and flash around and with which you now continue to damage the hotel industry in Vienna. Ladies and gentlemen, my speaking time has unfortunately expired, I would just like to say one more thing: I don't want you to sit on us, that now you're putting up anyone who has a different opinion as a coronalist – that's not a question of faith, and no one is denying the existence of Sars-Cov-2 – that you're putting us as an incorruptible person that you call the people who have other approaches – and this includes high-ranking professors from the fields of virology and epidemiology – covidiotes! So we finally need an open, broad discourse, a scientific discourse – and we are constructive; Mr Prince has also submitted an opinion, ladies and gentlemen. So, ladies and gentlemen, Fight the spread of the virus – that's what we all want – but don't fight people! However, this draft law is a work of action to combat people and to abolish and widen out our fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13785	Ladies and gentlemen! I may ask that the word “saury ” no longer be used in the speeches. The expression pigry is no more desirable. There are ways to define that. For Ferkelei, there was no call for order for my knowledge. Mrs Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13813	Mr President, I would have expected an orderly call for this word – but if bad behaviour has a name, then the Amesbauer is, and I do not use more time for it now, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I remember everyone who might have a little memory wound: In March, when this bipartite was decided, we were all there. [[Keeping a document in height]] We have jointly adopted this first Covid law here. [[Abg. Kickl: But in contrast to you with a lot of abdominal pain!]] You too, Mr Kickl, were there. [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, with a lot of abdominal pain!]] Then, of course, a lot has happened – as I am now with some previous speakers – that these regulations, which have then been partially proclaimed, have been announced at press conferences, in which the people have no longer known: What can I do now, what can I not? Who punishes me, who doesn't punish me? How can I leave my apartment and how not? Or, as the Federal Chancellor said: If the women don't stand it at home at all, it's no shame to bring the children to school! - The schools were closed. Or weren't they closed? - So no one knew each other anymore. That is, this joint decision of March has resulted in many regulations that were not good, not good for the people outside. You even have to admit that, August Wöinger. Now it is that we together – unfortunately not all political groups, and I regret that – repair these Murks from then on: in a novel, in which legal foundations are created, which were not there before. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] So there was a wild growth, a Murks of regulations and no rules and no rules that had been adopted on a legal basis. It is precisely this that we are creating, and on account of responsibility for the citizens of this country, social democracy is there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's now over with this confusion, because we can talk with you. Even if other political groups are constantly saying that this would not be the case: I understood – and I can carry the good conscience – that this is the case. It is also not good, ladies and gentlemen, that people who work more than 8 or more hours in occupations in which they have to wear a mask may still not be able to make a break in which they take off the mask and still get paid for this working time. It is therefore very important that we discuss this again today, and I will now make a request for it. Whether the trade has 20 million euros or not, I am completely squandered, it is about the people who work in the trade, it is about the people who have to work in care, in tourism, in gastronomy and wear the mask. [[Call the ÖVP: I believe that!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's why it's meated for me, because it said: Cost it what it wants, and these 20 million euros – if that is true at all – are still to be spent. I therefore put forward the following motion for a resolution and appeal to all of you: [[Quoted print version removed]] Please go with me! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[14:20]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13988	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore also under negotiation. Hermann Brückl is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14012	Mr President. High house! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Press conferences, regulations, policy by phone, interviews: All the corona insanity, triggered by this federal government, has led people in our country no longer to recognize that there is uncertainty that there is unrest. People don't know themselves anymore: Mask duty – no, yes? Easter visit allowed – no, yes? Coronamepel: Is it yellow, is it green? When does it enter into force? By the way, Mr Fässmann has designed his own coronamepel, since there has not yet been the others. School on, school on, school on, school on – absolute chaos at our schools! School directors who wish to carry out forced tests with their students, although this is not possible, although they may not cause them to do so; [[Abg. Kickl: (in the direction of Federal Minister Anschober) There he laughs! There he laughs!]] Federal Minister Fässmann, who arranges mass tests and screenings at the schools, with the students being very consciously suggested that they should participate, although that is not true! – No, they don’t have to participate – only if parents agree, only if it happens voluntarily! With all this confusion, with all this chaos, no one can claim that this is all wanted; and if so, then, I tell you, this government simply wants to circumscribe civil rights and freedoms. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have received countless letters in recent weeks, countless calls from troubled parents who worry about their children. They're worried about their education in our schools. They're worried about their progress. They fear that their children will suffer mental, physical and social damage caused by the black-green government. High house! Children need to have their own experiences. You must gain your own experience. They need rooms to develop. They need to build confidence, and it is our responsibility as adults, our task as parents to accompany them on this path. We must guide them through this schooling process. Of course, we want to protect our children from calamity, but that is only if we do not pass on our fears, our concerns, our unrest, our doubts to them. If this black and green federal government, through its policies, wants to insure and monitor our students through fear-making measures, then our children are influenced and attacked in their psyche, in their spirit, in their soul, in their vitality. They lose energy, they lose courage, they lose skills. There must therefore be a turnaround in this way of thinking, High House! Our children need strength. They need energy, they need joy of life. They must not become a lost generation of education. Our children do not need new normality in our schools, our children need the usual normality in our schools. You need a normal class. Let our children laugh again! Mr Federal Minister, at the end of the day: They have called a Member of this House “chefcoronaleugner”, the person of Klubobmann Herbert Kickl. I can tell you: I see this as a sign of weakness, because you seem to have the arguments. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'll give you another one: If you haven't noticed it yet, but always if it's difficult for you or if it's difficult for this government, leave your coalition partner and leave it. You the Federal Chancellor likes to stand alone in the rain.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14073	As the next speaker, Dr Werner Saxinger is speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14094	Mr President. Dear Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm being asked again and again: What's so dangerous about the corona virus? Why do you do all that? And I say then well thought out and facts based on how to expect this from me as a doctor and how to expect it in principle from a member of the House: We don't need to be afraid, we don't need to be afraid, but we have to be very careful. The Covid-19 virus has some special features, and we should all know this now, after six months of intensive employment: In the case of infected people, viruses in high numbers can be infected one to two days before the first symptoms; that is, we do not see if this person is corona infected. There are also no warning symptoms in Corona, no red eyes and no running nose. This makes Covid very secretive and the suppression of the infection difficult. What we've heard: Covid's mortality is like to be compared to that of flu. It is ten times higher than with the flu – everything based on facts – and unlike the flu, we have no corresponding immunity, no vaccination and only six months of knowledge. [[Abg. Stefan: Who says that?]] [[Abg. Stefan: Where can you read this? Where's that? I'd like to read this!]] [[Call the FPÖ: Which source do you quote from?]] These are facts. This is important to understand and to support the measures. [[Abg. Stefan: That's absurd! That's not true! It's exactly the opposite!]] I can assure you, think out of this knowledge and act very balanced and proportionately. We have learned a lot or should learn a lot in recent months. We now know, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ that masks protect. This is evidenced by numerous studies and should also be clear to the masquerades in the High House and to the hostile to science. [[Abg. Kickl: You don't even quote neatly! You don't even mention your sources!]] Masks also protect the wearer. Optimal if both masks are worn, this reduces the likelihood of infection by 80 percent. [[Abg. Kickl: Where's that?]] Many doctors have been wearing masks for many hours for decades, without damage. According to the latest surveys, 80 percent of the population also consider it necessary and appropriate that the mask be worn in the public protected area. Even more effective is a mix of measures consisting of mask, distance keeping, hygiene, a functioning contact tracking, i.e. tracking a limited number of participants in events, and also restrictions on travel in countries with high levels of infection. [[Abg. Kickl:... we all have to stay at home!]] With these measures, ladies and gentlemen, we hope to keep track of Corona and prevent a possible collapse. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] We've learned something else: We will be careful that no so-called collated damage occurs, i.e. that important investigations and necessary therapies and operations are not postponed due to Corona and no patient is harmed by non-treatment. [[Abg. Brückl: Have we already!]] I would also like to say to the spectators: Don't be afraid of ordinations and hospitals, of an infection there! These are safe places. We know how to deal with Corona. One thing's important to me, too. It always means: Take care of health and take care of the economy! - You can't separate that. The more the increase in infections is, the harder the economy too is affected. What does it mean when many are infected and sick? – Employees are not in the establishments, there are fewer people who go shopping, and there are also more travel warnings from abroad, whether we want it or not. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan]] That means: Health and economics are linked, and a serious health crisis is also immediately an economic crisis. So we have no choice but to take certain measures, and the balanced content in the Covid Act is the basis for that. Ladies and gentlemen, I say quite clearly: We want to prevent the lockdown by all means, with all the means available to us. We want to keep schools open, and we are trying to show proportionality in the measures. It means to be careful and to observe some rules; but only if we all do, we will be able to cope well with this crisis, and it is up to all of us. So put the mask on and out! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14237	The next speaker is Mr Dietmar Keck. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14261	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! I am a trade unionist and I am a works councillor, and every time any action is taken by the company or by the boss, I have two options: [[Call the ÖVP: I know!]] One possibility is: I can shout, I can defuse the whole thing, I can lean back and wait for what's coming. That goes on, I have the claws on my side, right now – but when the measures come, I don't have the claws on my side anymore, then there are those affected and then they will make me responsible for them. Option two is: I can negotiate. I can try to get the best out for those concerned, I can try to make a massive change in these measures. [[Abg. Kickl: What was that at your special meeting? What was that at the special meeting?]] – I know you’re upset, colleague Kickl, because it’s happening to you because you don’t have anything to offer! [[Abg. Kickl: What was that?]] You didn't make a single proposal in all your speech, all 10 minutes in which you talked. You have nothing, that is the problem of FPÖ, ladies and gentlemen! [[It is in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as of Green MEPs.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] We have tried to amend this legislative text, which has been presented, and we have achieved many measures, ladies and gentlemen. We have achieved that there is a clear time limit of 30.6.2021. [[Abg. Kickl: Is that extendable?]] ==References== December, and we have achieved that it will be June. [[Abg. Kickl: Incredible!]] We have reached with the last negotiations, which took place yesterday – where none of you were involved, because you are not interested in it, colleague Kickl – that the main committee can also be included. [[Abg. Kickl: Who has the majority?- Oh, my God!]] That means that in the negotiations we have really achieved that much is being changed. We have achieved that, unlike the existing draft, Parliament is more involved. We have achieved that there is a clear limitation of administrative control powers. We have achieved that there is a maximum time limit for freedom-limiting regulations, ladies and gentlemen. We've done a lot. But it's also clear to us, Mr. Kickl, that we have a pandemic. And I don't think you know the difference between epidemic and pandemic. You talked to the flu. – The flu is an epidemic, and an epidemic usually moves in the regional area with limited numbers. [[Abg. Kaniak: They only exist in Austria, or what?- Oh, my God!]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Worm.]] According to WHO, a pandemic goes over two continents. That is, we have a global pandemic that we do not have under control. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, the flu is: One can be vaccinated against the flu and there are already medicines that help against the flu. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] We have nothing against Corona, and it is therefore necessary to take measures to control this virus, ladies and gentlemen, but also measures that serve the population and which are not, as in the first draft, those measures, as you have proposed – and I believe, we have negotiated something good. [[in the direction of ÖVP pointing]] We still have a problem, ladies and gentlemen, and that is what I say as a senior speaker: It is already happening again that in senior homes, where a positive case occurs, the complete home is locked. Values Mr Health Minister – I have received several emails and calls again – please make a uniform arrangement with the Heads of State for Austria, so that it can no longer be possible for the inhabitants of these elderly and elderly homes to be locked away for weeks because there is a single case! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This responsibility lies with you, Rudi, and I hope you will take the appropriate steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14420	Eva-Maria Himmelbauer is now reported in word. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14442	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it was clear to all of us that today this will be both a recharged and an emotional debate, and that is clear. The last few months have been a very challenging time for so many people in our country, and we, the families, the companies, the workers, farmers – from young to old – have also required a lot of things. If I look into the round like this or at least think of the speeches, of what unites us from it, then I realize that everyone wants to, I believe that the months to come will be better, that this will stabilize at a low level. Unfortunately, it is, however, that we see that the trend is upward, that there are more infections, not only in Austria, but also in many other countries in Europe. This must also give us thought, and this must also call for action, and that is why today's decisions, the revision of the Epidemic Act or the COVID-19 Act also need to be taken. Both are important legal bases, which for us are instructions for action for the coming months, but especially for the serious situation when it comes to this. It is about health, quite clearly, and I think I can say – as my colleagues said earlier – that: Of course, we have learned in recent months since spring; it would be sad, if not. But if you look at Spain, France, Israel, because these countries have also learned to do so, the numbers that go up there, and what that means for health care, you have to think about it. But it is also about the economy. We must not be naïve, but we must also recognise that high levels of infection also mean economic damage, because travel restrictions come to us, because tourism is also a major economic factor, which suffers because there is also uncertainty among consumers. Austria is taking significant measures, which are recognized by looking at the European situation, and we are re-evaluating the situation every day. With the Epidemie Act and also with the COVID-19 Act, with all that has happened in advance, according to the long path we have taken in these laws, with assessment phases, expert hearing, committee assessment, amendments, we can now accept these two laws with good conscience. – I should like to appeal once again that we also ensure legal certainty and preparation for a serious case.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14481	Dr. Christoph Matznetter has now been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14505	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister and gentlemen at the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I think it has been quite impressively successful to explain why this law, which is now in place, is no longer unconstitutional. No one and none of the counter speakers could explain why the old law of March would have failed for another eight weeks than to make the new one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] To be honest, this part of the discussion has actually been done. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] - Well, not at all, Mr. Kickl! On the basis of which this law is adopted at all, one can also quote: It is in fact the exclusive federal competence resulting from Article 10 of our Constitution. The Federal Government is responsible for legislation and enforcement in health care – “with the exception of body and funeral”. That means: In this question, whether it works or not, there is an executive and that is called the Austrian Federal Government. All the things that are now being carried out in the election campaign, especially from the ÖVP, which runs through a Viennabashing, therefore lack their material basis! [[Abg. Hörl: The numbers are right...!]] – It is your government’s work and if something does not work, then self-criticism, MP Hörl, does not go on to the others! [[Abg. Hörl: Let's do it!]] Says: Okay, we're sorry, we did something wrong! – To date, only Minister Anschober has brought this together, but I lack the admission from the ÖVP side. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] What is listed in the election campaign [[Calls of the Abg. Port picker and loacker]] Apparently, Michael Häupl was right: ‘Walking times are times of focused inflexibility’. [[Abg. Ottenschlager: With you!]] In Vienna, this week, Mrs. Ingrid Korosec, a health spokesman, says – in the tradition of how bad Vienna is –: Vienna is supposed to take an example of Lower Austria! [[Call the ÖVP:Yes for sure!]] On the same day, “The press” is already entitled – what an example – to: [[Keeping a document in height]] ‘Nederösterreich overtakes Vienna’. – We need more Corona Falls; that’s all absurd, this Viennabashing! [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Melchior and Gabriela Schwarz.]] Vienna is one of the best managed cities, and fortunately, the ÖVP does not have its fingers in it, because then it works at least – not for the particular interests of someone who needs something but for the entire population. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] As you referred to Hotline 1450, Mr Klubobmann, if you meant: [[Abg. Wöginger: This is not going to be in Vienna!]] There 400 people were employed and now another 100 with 1 830 euros gross. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wöger.]] Her Upper Austrian head of state wants to pay just EUR 1,200. No wonder it doesn't work to the extent. [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: Vienna would need 700 according to recommendation!]] What does the ÖVP mean? Vienna is supposed to be different? Should Vienna lock the test roads? Instead of opening a new test road, should Vienna lock the others so that there are low numbers as in other countries? If you want to prevent this, look – this is for the voters – that the Pleiden-, Pech- und Pannendienst Blümel, who has nothing to say with the turquoise socks, top candidates in Vienna, in Vienna! Michael Ludwig can do better! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14654	Mrs Mag. Elisabeth Scheucher-Pichler. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14681	Mr President. Dear representatives of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I come from Carinthia, with us the numbers are great, even in Klagenfurt, thank God, we are very happy about it. I do not want to deal now with what you have said, but Ingrid Korosec is at least one of the few who work for the seniors, which is quite certain once. In addition to the senior speaker of SPÖ, no one has yet illuminated the situation of the seniors. Therefore, allow me to go into it very briefly! I am very glad that today's new laws bring important clarifications and also involve new knowledge and many experiences. Thank you too, Minister of State, for being taken so seriously! I think we're on a very, very good way. The fact is, we know more now. We know today that an 80-year-old who is fit is less at risk than a 40-year-old with prediseases. We know there are infections and diseases in all ages. It is therefore also very important to me that we in this novel state very clearly that contacts among family members are possible, of course, that it is necessary and correct to provide assistance. This is clearly held. I would also like to thank all the elderly groups across Austria who are so involved. The loneliness, the loneliness of the elderly, is always a great topic, which was of course a very, very big issue now, and we must counter that. Much has been done: Whatsapp groups, telephone calls with the people, the seniors, and we need to keep doing that. I would also like to support my colleagues Dr. Saxinger, who said: Go to the doctor! - Yeah, especially with the seniors, that's very, very important. For many seniors, the family doctor is the most important contact person, the most important reference person, and therefore it is so important to maintain this contact. It is also important to safeguard protective clothing, which is now being reorganised. I also say this on behalf of the nursing staff and the medical staff. That didn't always work perfectly, and I hope that will be better in the future. Thanks also for their dedicated work, not only for the older generation, in this difficult time! Ladies and gentlemen, let's take care of each other, let's go with house mind in the next few weeks! It is good that a large majority of Austrians take the path of Sebastian Kurz and the way of this federal government. This also makes us confident that we are well through this pandemic. Let's see that the number of infections remains low! Stay healthy!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14724	Mr Franz Hörl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14748	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! The whole government, what honor! Mr. Kickl – or should I say primally? [[Intervocations by Mr Belakovich and Mr Wurm.]] You quoted Grillparzer in your frenzied speech today. I think of something else: Robert Louis Stevenson – Robert Louis Stevenson and his work Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. [[Abg. Kickl: Who?]] [[German pronunciation]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: What does that mean?]] From the Lockdownforder to the viral liar – but now away from the literature, Mr. Kickl, it is not worth it. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] This law, which we decide here today, is actually the development of the existing law on measures, and there is no reason at all to be so upset here. I believe that constitutional conformity is ensured, many things are clarified, and social democracy has also worked together. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vocal]] The privacy is secure. This is a very important message to guests who come to a local that we need to register so that we can also track the corona cases: Your data will be deleted after 28 days, they do not need to have any concerns. In the west of Austria there is just a huge discussion, much disappointment, much excitement, of course, because in some federal states we have introduced a blocking hour from 10 am. I admit, I'm very touched. The last time I had such a break, I was 15 years old and at the boarding school at Villa Blanka. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] The fact that I have to experience this again is bad. [[Abg. Kickl: Time to learn English!]] But it is about saving the winter season, it is about saving our economic base, namely the winter season. If this helps us to push down the number of newly infected people and thus perhaps prevent travel warnings, then this price is probably also to be paid. [[New call of the abg. Belakovich.]] I would just like to ask, Mr Federal Minister, that we may be able to manage these things a little more regionally. In East Tyrol and Reutte, there is no understanding at all of this measure, which has hardly any corona traps, and they are also caught and hanged there. The health of the population is also the highest good among us, but this also includes the joy of living and an economic outcome, and for this we need our winter season. Unfortunately, I have no longer speaking time, I just want to say something about the pointless tests as you called them, Mr Kickl: I've tested all summer. As an innkeeper and hoteler, I thank you for having this test system. To present these tests as pointless or to deny the virus is actually like putting the head in the blue Ibizasand.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14860	The next speaker is Mr Mag. Gerald Hauser. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14884	Mr President. Estimated government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Franz Hörl! Instead of adding to the FPÖ Group and our legitimate ideas and criticisms, it would have been more reasonable to criticise the Tyrolean government and even the Western governments for the fact that the restaurants, bars and hotels have already been blocked at 10 am from Friday. That is the pressure from Tyrol – zero understanding from these federal states for this massively exaggerated measure. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Mr Health Minister, I have followed the debate, you have always spoken of proportionality. This measure is a driving force, including all those districts and regions, whether in Tyrol, Salzburg or Vorarlberg – I only take the example of Osttirol – where there is almost no corona traps. We have – yesterday’s stand – in East Tyrol 14 Corona Falls, which is 0.02 percent of the population, and exactly one person, 0.002 percent, is in the hospital, one person is in the hospital! This law, which you decide today, empowers the state politicians and the national leaders to lock all businesses at 10 p.m. That's a scandal, and I don't think the population and the economy will vote for it. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14930	Magnificence comes to the fore. Martin Engelberg. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14954	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Values Members of the Federal Government! It's not 48 hours since I was in hospital with Covid. [[Abg. Belakovich: And now you come here?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Singer: Do you want to infect us?- Oh, my God!]] It wasn't funny. I can only tell you that it is not a pleasant time to lie down with high fever for days and then slowly notice how one goes out of the air. It made me pretty humble. [[New call of the abg. Belakovich.]] I'm telling you, at this point: I don't want any of you to want this to happen to you. I wish you wouldn't. I was not even the worst case. There are enough people with me in the hospital who are ringing with life. That's not funny. It made me humble because I was also well cared for in an incredible way. With great gratitude I would like to express my gratitude to the team in the Kaiser-Franz-Josef-Spital, thank you for the effort to survive the whole team, from the medical director to the senior doctors to the auxiliary force, who really help the people in this hospital with great sacrifice. [[General acknowledgment]] It is a great humility that fills me, and I can only say: It is worth saving each individual person, it is worth doing everything so that people do not have to endure it. I believe that we must be very grateful to the people who commit themselves in the Kaiser-Franz-Josef-Spital and in many others throughout the Republic. But that also leads me to the Federal Government. I would like to thank the members of the Federal Government – starting from the Federal Chancellor over all members – for this incredible commitment they make. I know and feel and have felt the dedication that is being fought for people in Austria to survive this crisis well. It is therefore a particular concern that I should like to take advantage of this opportunity, namely of course not just to be for this mistrust, no, on the contrary, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the members of the Federal Government for this work they have been doing in recent weeks and months for the people of that country. – Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15014	Mrs Kucher. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15038	Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Engelberg, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) Your words take up precisely because this corona crisis has a very dramatic impact on people's lives and lives, and all of us, I believe, have also felt these fates in recent months. That there are young people who can no longer go to school, that there have been old people in nursing homes who have not seen their families anymore, that there have been people who have died, that there have been people who have become seriously ill and that there have been people who have literally lost their existence, that was for us the central reason that we have said: Just because we are dealing with this crisis together and together, it is important that we, where we can contribute positively, are also happy to participate and that, where there are criticism points, we call for all constructive improvements. The reason for us to go with us today and support this draft law, which has really had a dramatic number of mistakes at the outset, is that there have been 14 000 people who have made comments today that we have reached a constitutional solution that will end this time of summer with the fact that, so to speak, we have been able to strengthen Parliament's control rights in a massive way and have created a good solution to each other, especially through expert hearing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak]] [[Abg. Kickl: I... you believe that... really!]] What I personally cannot understand, with all legitimate criticism: If we are honest, at least we are fighting about the things where there are really criticisms! As an opposition politician, I say quite clearly: We have all experienced that a lot of things are not working in Austria. But there are things that we can improve so that at least the government has the legal basis. I mean, you have to imagine, we've been presented for weeks in the summer, and today we only decide on the legal basis. No one knows each other all over Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] We turned up traffic lights, I think there was an avalanche of press conferences, each minister did his own traffic lights – there are the barrelsman traffic lights, there are the short lights, there is the traffic lights, it's traffic light everywhere, Shortly the traffic lights are flashing in the tunnel – but nobody knows it anymore. Today, for the first time, we decide on the legal basis of this traffic light, which is why I really ask you to try to bring these improvements together today and not to say – as the NEOS and the liberals have done – that these five paragraphs, which today are the legal basis for the government's handling and transit work, are world class, where we have all rightly criticized each other that so much Push has happened in the summer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] It is about human existence, therefore – not because it is a Gaudi – I ask: Let's see we fix it together! It would be easy to sit there now and say that everything doesn't fit. To NEOS: This has come to me today, you tell the same sayings, no matter if the laws have changed, whether people have cooperated, no matter what has been improved, always the old leader: It's been crazy for you, you didn't want to go with me. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] You can't work like that! As if these five paragraphs were the world class and the improvements of 14,000 people were the disaster, it is not fair. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] One last point, and I have to say this in the direction of Minister Anschhober: What's not going on is that the government has a hack and there's a competition of vanity, because the surveys seem more important and Sebastian is insulting you in short – I don't know, I don't care; the sufferers are the people in Austria. It can't be if the government doesn't even know what's going on anymore, and the traffic lights fail completely, that it all at once means: Self-reliance. That is, as soon as no one knows each other in the Federal Government – one asks for five members of the government and gets eight opinions – one pushes it on the population at once. This little game that Sebastian Kurz is practicing – debt is always the other ones – please don't go! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's why I'm asking: Let us criticize the points we need to make better and let us not say that if the promotions do not work, the entrepreneurs are too depressing to write the name correctly! These are all the things we've experienced. It doesn't work all at once, unfortunately now the case numbers are rising because you just slept in the summer. Fäsmann suddenly insisted that the school was going off again in the autumn – he did nothing but create his barrelman traffic light, but he could not answer the parents' questions. There are really enough things we can criticize. But if we go with each other today, let's see that we put health in the foreground and see that we have a basis that the traffic lights can work properly, that we have better legal bases! I really invite all parties to take seriously what 14 000 people have worked out, including with us all. So I can invite all the parties to go with us today. There are enough points that we can criticize, but today please: once together!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15129	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Before we enter the voting process, I ask whether the clubs wish to interrupt. – This is not logically the case because everyone is there. [[General hustle and bustle.]] We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we have to vote on Mr Scherak's proposal for referral back to TOP 1. I shall immediately vote on the draft federal law amending the Epidemic Law, the Tuberculosis Act and the COVID-19 Act, in 370 of the Supplements to the Health Committee, and seek a sign from those members of the House. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: Draft federal law amending the Epidemic Act, the Tuberculosis Act and the COVID-19 Act, into 370 of the Supplements. Mr Hiezu has tabled an additional or amendment tabled by Mr Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Schalmeiner, Mr Kucher, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. There is also a desire for a separate vote by Members of the European Parliament. In addition, Members Kickl, colleagues and colleagues have requested that a referendum be held on the draft law, which is contrary to Article 42 of the Federal Constitutional Act, but before the Federal President's announcement, after the end of the procedure. Therefore, I will first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposal and the publishing house on separate votes, following the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. The vote on the request for a referendum will be taken in accordance with § 84 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall take place after the third reading. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 1 Z 5 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting for this part of the bill to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the supplementary or amendment amendment tabled by Mr Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Schalmein, Mr Kucher and others on Articles 1 and 3. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This too is largely accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a positive sign. – This too is largely accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is also accepted by the majority and the draft at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by Members Kickl, ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to Article 84 of the Rules of Procedure, to vote against the order of law after the end of the procedure in accordance with Rule 42 B-VG, but before the Federal President has given his approval to a referendum. I ask those colleagues who are in favour of a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Herbert Kickl, colleagues on the failure of confidence in the Federal Government and the State Secretary in accordance with Art. 74 para. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the need for such a decision by the National Council, as referred to in paragraph 2 of the Constitutional Treaty, for half of the Members to be present, I expressly note it. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Jörg Leichtfried, colleagues on ‘Introduction of a Mask Break’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: A draft federal law, with which the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farmers' Social Insurance Act and the Civilian Disease Act, and accident insurance law, including title and receipt in 371 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft, to a sign of approval, This was also unanimously adopted at third reading. I am now interrupting the negotiations on the agenda. [[15:00:49]] Short debate: Project Edelstein
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15325	We come to the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Finance Mag. Blossom with order number 2511/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I now ask Mr Mag. Christian Drobitsan's speaker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15362	Mr President. Estimated government members! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values listeners! I took action to get into politics, and I knew I had to put a vow on the federal constitution. This promise refers to compliance with the provisions of the Federal Constitution. That's what I'm standing for. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] If, for the first time, I find that the regulations of the Federal Constitution have not been or will be complied with, I am disappointed and angry at the same time. Today's question has resulted from a question on my part, addressed to Mr Federal Minister Mag. Gernot Blümel, whom I asked about the project Edelstein regarding the planned partial privatisation of the Federal Recherchezentrum, is an important matter, because the Federal Recherchezentrum is, after all, the data bunker of all the data, the data treasure of the Republic and also the brain of the Republic. When it comes to ownership and the transfer of ownership to data, you should be allowed to ask. Since I know the Constitution and have made a vow on it, I know that Article 52 regulates the law of interconnection. This means that one can control the respective minister in terms of management but can also request relevant answers. When I look at the answer to the question, I see that it is quite concrete, Minister Blümel: Please wait! Please wait! Please understand that I can't give answers! It's all confidential, everything secret, everything top secret, cover name Project Edelstein. - It's far too little for me. I feel hurt in my honour as a parliamentarian, and I am also disappointed that you are taking my right to ask questions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Since we believe that all the other Members here should also be so that they feel circumcised in their law of questioning, we have called for this question to be discussed today. Minister Blümel! I don't know why you don't give answers. Either you don't know, or you don't want to know. I'm just disappointed that you refuse me any information. I looked at requests from 2018. You answered a request and wrote: It is important to me that I have the right to interact, and it is important to me that there is respect and content of the reply. In 2018, the President of the National Council, sitting behind me, answered clearly and clearly in response to a question on parliamentary questions, that the right of inter-pellation as a living pillar of democracy, for parliamentary control, for democratic control, for democracy as such is very important. These are the pillars of the federal constitution for me, and therefore I do not understand that you treat me so disrespectfully by rejecting my request and not giving me answers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So, now the presumption is that it might be because the secret project Edelstein is the reason. That may be. I also do not blame you for perhaps having 86 memory gaps in the U Committee. Maybe that's one of them, too. I also do not blame you for forgetting the zeros in the budget, but what I take wrong with you is that you are trying to negate and circumscribe my questioning right. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You already know, Mr Federal Minister, the questions I have asked are clear questions, extensive questions to be answered. To refer to the silence of office is much too simple, and that is why I guess you don't want to tell me anything. Therefore, you do not want to tell me anything because you believe that this publication on Parliament's homepage has an impact on the Ibiza U Committee, and therefore you have not given any answers. That is why I ask you to say: Why do you want? You do not answer my questions – the data that lies in the Bundesrechenzentrum, these are data that concern you and concern me, health data, tax data, criminal records, company book, base book, even the passport images, everything is inside – why do you not want to give me answers as to whether or not planned sales transactions between the Bundesrechenzentrum and Post AG, a listed company? Why do it? You don't? You want to hide something there? Do you want to make us know in the final effect, you don't know anything? Well, the Federal Chancellor seems to know more. The Federal Chancellor replied in the media, in the “profile”, in the “standard” and also in the ORF, that he very well knows the cooperation talks, in detail he does not know. You don't seem to know anything. Mr Bonelli, the head of the Federal Chancellor's cabinet, knows much more, but the interesting thing is that even the practitioner in the Ministry of Finance knew more at the time. He knew that there had been talks through which the sale of our data to Post AG should take place. It is sad that you, as Minister of Finance, do not have any answers in the Ministry of Finance, and you do not have any answers. That is why I ask you again: Why does the intern know more than you do, why don't you give me an answer, and why, unlike anyone else, say to Mr. Federal Chancellor and so on, I don't know? Have you forgotten it again, as in the U committee, do you want to forget it, or is it system that you need to forget it? That's the question. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! I am not only disappointed with your lack of respect for my person, I am also disappointed that you seem not to take our federal constitution seriously. I don't know how you see it yourself – you'll probably say something about it in your remarks too – but I suppose you can only do it: I didn't know anything about it, I wasn't Minister of Finance at the time, and I don't know anything today. – If this is the answer, it is too cheap, and that is why we will not let that happen. I am today only the spearhead of Members who receive unsolicited answers on the basis of questions. In future, we will deal with all the responses that go in the same direction, ignoring the questioning right of Members, with which the people, the Austrians and Austrians – I am now saying this for vulgar – are being sold for stupid, with questionings, another instrument. Your answer to the question today is the summit. That's really crazy. Mr Federal Minister, I really would like to ask you: Consider whether you do not answer the request again in this sense, because the not knowing of a request answer also has consequences. Also in the interests of the House, in the interests of the President of the National Council, who has clearly and clearly said that parliamentary control is a living pillar of the federal constitution and that the right of inter-parliamentary law is a basis for it, I would ask you once again to consider whether you will remain guilty of further answers in the course of the question. If you do, I think there is a reason for this – then I would ask you to simply call it. If you don't know the reason – as you don't know much – just step back! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15475	Mr Blümel, Federal Minister for Finance, is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15496	Mr President. High house! I would like to stress that the Ministry of Finance answers every request from Parliament to the best of its knowledge and as detailed as possible. [[Ah-noise at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Stefan: This is the problem!]] However, we had to note regularly in the parliamentary questions that requests always concern content which is not subject to the law of interconnection. There are also good reasons for this exception. In particular, this is the case in the case of information subject to general business secrecy. This is about protectionable internal business information, whose publication could lead to competitive disadvantages. Due to the legitimate confidentiality interest, information in this respect cannot be disclosed. In addition, my department would violate the obligation to remain silent, which would not only bring criminal consequences, but also damage to the international reputation of Austria. I therefore ask you to understand that it is not possible for us to answer questions about content subject to secrecy, and I also ask you to bear in mind that requests must be made objectively and objectively and therefore not necessarily the way in which the political questioner sometimes wishes to do so. In addition, I would like to say to the answer you raised that the so-called Edelstein project dates completely before my term of office. All relevant documents have been made available to the Committee of Inquiry in a classified form and, in my knowledge, this issue has already been discussed there. Due to the legitimate confidentiality interest of listed Post AG and the Bundesrechenzentrum, information in this regard cannot be disclosed. The information requested in the context of the present request is protectionable internal information for companies whose publication could lead to a competitive disadvantage on the part of both companies. I am therefore seeking to understand that no information beyond the scope of the request can be made publicly available under the legal framework. Finally, allow me to make a fundamental comment: I think it is legitimate that every Federal Ministry – including the Ministry of Finance – should regularly consider how to deal with state resources, and thus also with the assets of taxpayers, as efficiently as possible. This is not a task, but an obligation and expression of ministerial responsibility towards the wealth of the Republic and the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15542	The absolute speaking time is now only more than 5 minutes. Mrs Gerstl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15566	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! Thank you very much for the fact that the Federal Minister has now brought the debate back in an objective direction. After Mr Drobit's speech, I was not sure whether I should laugh or cry. What he did there actually mocks every description. [[Abg. Lightness:...! That would help!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the whole matter has been in the Committee of Inquiry for months and all members of the Committee of Inquiry have the opportunity to look at the documents, study them and to debate them in the committee of inquiry itself. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] But do you want to know, ladies and gentlemen, whether the SPÖ once asked to discuss this subject in a confidential session, so that it can find out what it is proposing here? - Not even once! [[Abg. Lightness: Oh! ...!]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: Because it's pointless!]] That makes it quite clear: The SPÖ is about a pure show to scandalize, to distract from its own failures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lightness: This is a...!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Why, Mr Drobits, did you not discuss the issue of “Novomatic pays all” and your gambling issues in Burgenland and Vienna? Why didn't you focus on the fact that someone from Novomatic at city councillor Sima tried to influence the fact that 150 video lottery terminals can continue to be installed in Vienna? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drobits.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Why, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, do you hide those things that concern the fact that other people are being accompanied into something that we don't want, namely, into the gambling we reject, and that there is no longer a small gambling at federal level, but you continue to have it in the Burgenland? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] You also met with representatives of Novomatic! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Vogl.]] Don't get rid of your own mistakes! That would be a lot, much better for you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now that the Edelstein project has nothing to do with it, the performance of Mr. Drobits has already shown here. The Committee of Inquiry has been told by all persons that the reflection was on how to create economic synergies between the Federal Recherchezentrum and the Post, and that the initial considerations were. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] On a scale from one to ten – that is what the post representative said – the stage only went to the point one, because then it was already stopped because it was thought that no further synergies could be derived from it. So if you had quoted the statements of the persons in the Committee of Inquiry here, you could not have scandalized any more, because the project was just reinjected at an early stage, without any political influence, because we have many, many good, competent officials in the Ministry of Finance and in the other departments involved in this project. They all found: For various legal and economic reasons, it does not pay off to pursue this project. Therefore, all your accusations that you give of yourself here are false and clear to condemn. More materiality, more serenity as well, and more reflection on the rule of law would be good for you all here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15720	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15741	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The speech by Mr Gerstl was clearly prepared and therefore, of course, she has nothing to do with the debate that has taken place here. – If you say that was just at some initial stage, then you should already say that the project was only six months before the end of the project and that the reason why it was blown off was the post scandal – the data abuse scandal of the post that was posted in January 2019 and in the course of which the post then received at the end of the day one, I think, 18 million euros of power. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstl]] [[Abg. Gerstl:... already in December!]] That was the reason why that was set! In addition, it was revived months later, namely when Mr Müller became Minister of Finance, who, as an official, together with the ÖVP Secretary-General at the Ministry of Finance, carried out this project in the privatisation of the BRZ. You should really stick to the truth! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstl.]] It was set because you got cold feet because you got it: Ui, this is not the case, the post is sentenced to a million fine – the highest penalty for data abuse in Europe! – and that's why we can't sell our data to them now. Tell me that was the reason! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] The question that concerns the question is: Can a minister just say: I do not answer this question because there are any secrets, company secrets of listed companies!Unknown term type: "%s".? You can look at that. What were those questions? The questions were: Did the Federal Ministry of Finance obtain advice? Only the question: Did you get advice? - He doesn't answer them. What does this have to do with the interests of the post office? The question is whether you have obtained an opinion as a Ministry of Finance. You have to answer this! This is your duty according to the Constitution! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] It is clearly regulated that the public has the right to know how you deal with all our property. This is where the elected representatives of the population sit. Each of us who makes a request will, in fact, bring it in the name of 25 000 voters. What you're doing is you say: Don't interest me, I don't answer! – It is your duty to answer these questions! Did you get an opinion, yes or no? We know in the meantime, the answer is yes – but you don't even answer that here. The next question: What did these opinions cost? - Yes, excuse me, the National Council has the budgetary authority. Of course, he has the right to know what you are doing with the tax money for which you spend money. They do not answer these questions. That's not allowed to do what you're doing, you're not moving on the bottom of the Constitution. There you belong as a minister, however, because otherwise you have lost nothing on the ground here if you do not act on the ground of the Constitution. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] It's going on endlessly. All these questions have nothing to do with any business and business secrets, nothing to do with them! Of the twelve questions you have not answered, you have to answer at least eleven completely, one we can discuss. But you did not answer a single question. You have to sit down and answer these questions here, otherwise you will not be on the bottom of the Constitution. And a minister who is not on the ground of the Constitution has not lost anything in this ministry. By the way, I just wanted to say – since you are only a part-time minister and do something else –: It's a lucky thing if you're not released to Vienna. In view of your privatisation ideas on the part of the ÖVP, as you did last year in the dark and in secret, as also you personally and your office were involved in it – your employees in your cabinet were involved in these privatisation fantasies than it was about the ARE, about the BRZ and so on – I do not want to know if you have something to say in Vienna, how you are immediately selling all the community apartments and so on, everything that is non- and nailproof. It's just a luck that you're as unpopular as you are in Vienna, and that hopefully you won't be elected to Vienna somehow to take on any responsibility there, because the Viennans really didn't deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15818	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15839	Mr President. Federal Minister! I have spoken because this is just an example of how to deal with Members' right of interconnection, particularly in the series of the EIAs. I have put a number of questions arising from the Committee of Inquiry or relating to areas which also have to do with the Committee of Inquiry. You only get fluffy answers everywhere, and in principle you have The impression is that the ÖVP government is simply opposed to this Parliament and that one does not want to deal with it at all. I would like to address colleagues Gerstl, who, as it were, is sitting in here as a parliamentary part of his government force and is somehow fighting in the committee of inquiry, and sees that he is doing all that right. Mr Gerstl, if you said you should have quoted things from ÖVP experts from the Examining Committee here: Do you know what would have happened then? Then we would have an hour of silence here in the hall, because your people have all done one thing to one another: You said nothing, ladies and gentlemen, nothing at all! [[Complementary with FPÖ and SPÖ.]] This is the black thread that passes through the investigation committee, and also the black thread that draws through the response of the inquiry: Nothing can be remembered within the ÖVP. To remember, Sebastian KurzHe can't get to the talks with H.-C. Just remember, it doesn't know what you've been talking about globally, and in principle it wouldn't matter, because his text messages, which he exchanged with him, were not relevant and therefore not in committee. Interior Minister Nehammer: He doesn't know when he found out about the video. He does not believe that he commissioned the press conference to do so, and by the way, he does not know who works with him in the cabinet – just to bring back a few casto pieces. Minister of Finance Blümel: 86 memory gaps and not sure if he has a laptop or not. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, imagine that you are going to a driver's license test and are only trying to provide such information there in the first place. Then it's going to be You probably send the examiner to the official as next. On the other hand, however, we have government members who can't remember anything 86 times. [[Consistency with FPÖ and SPÖ as well as with the Abg. Loacker.]] That's what worries me: On the one hand, we have memories that the door is not going – by the way, Minister of Finance Blümel, if you had sold the BRZ, you might still have attached your stored memories and then we might not have heard anything in the future; so: Federal Rechenzentrum is basically important – which makes me afraid in the context, however, is the fact that this government, which can basically remember nothing, it is that says on the other hand, it wants to solve a Covid-19 crisis. How is it supposed to work if you don't know what you did the day before? You want to be mayor of Vienna, Mr. Blümel. How are you supposed to do this if you don't know what happened from an election campaign date to the next, and no one tells you? I give colleagues Krainer – rare, but still – right: It's better you don't come to Vienna and don't stay where you are. Maybe you're thinking about a different field of activity at all. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] A special case in the Committee of Inquiry was the President of this House sitting behind me. He too has had memory gaps. He also does not know where his club actually had address and seat. He did not know what he commissioned as president of this association with whom he cooperated. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is a black thread that shows itself here, which is actually characterized by memory gaps. I would now like to return to what the Committee has finally promoted. The Committee has so far shown that the EIAs are not just in favour of it. and is about to build a deep state, but has already established a deep state. We see it here: Wrist whether it is the Covid rules or other things, the ÖVP has now overcome the separation of violence and ruled in all areas of our lives and in all areas of this state. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is the reason why we need to take exactly such measures if a minister here in Parliament wants to sell us for stupid purposes, simply not giving us answers that he has to give. That is also the reason why we as opposition are called on to put an end to this spectacle. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this so-called Ibiza Examining Committee, which has perhaps been initiated as an instrument against FPÖ, now presents itself as another problem. It is a committee that shows the interaction of EIAs and Greens. They actually wanted to prevent the Committee at the beginning. That is what God has failed to do to them. The Committee shows how the EIA does if it can. The Committee also shows, for example, in the Edelstein project what ÖVP did not tell its coalition partner in the Ministry of Finance. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee is now heading in the right direction, and I am convinced that this is only the tip of the iceberg.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15948	I call Mr Tomaselli. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15970	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I would like to start with a good news, namely with the message: Yes, parliamentary control works. The Edelstein operation, and we must not forget that, should be kept secret. There is nothing else but that the data achilles of the Republic should have been sold to the partially private post. The fact that this has come to light is entirely the merit of parliamentary control in this Ibiza Examining Committee. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am glad that this parliamentary control works and that those who forge these crazy plans of parallel systems, which they have tried to install, and who are now trying to keep them under lock, do not do the pleasure of staying there. [[Abg. Martin Graf: Who's going to do that?]] We release this system in the layer-by-layer investigation committee, and this helps us all here in the house so that we can draw the political conclusions from it afterwards. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] In fact, we Greens also believe that, when such a secret plan comes to light, the most sensitive data from all of us – tax data, health data, the company's book, everything from the really highly protected area of the Bundesrechenzentrum – should have been damaged in at least dubious hands, please also let all the questions of parliamentarians be addressed, and they also have a right to an answer, ladies and gentlemen. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Martin Graf]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Those who also have a right to answers are the citizens, the Austrians, because if you look at everything that has happened or should have happened, or what the old Federal Government has planned, it is noted that everyone should have a high risk that their most sensitive data, their most private secrets will come into private hands. [[Abg. Martin Graf: That was the ÖVP, call it by name!]] [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Martin Graf]] A data Moloch with the participation of the data dealer Post should have been created. That's a fact. Even four months after getting to know you, it's just inconceivable when you listen to that. Because I think that the Austrians deserved transparency and also answers to the questions raised in this question and that they should not be included in the table, I am now going to do so. Were opinions collected? - Yes, there were even several, one of McKinsey's. What did the Edelstein project cost? – We also know that it is at least 100 000 euros in the BMF. Who was all involved? – It was the BMF, it was the leadership of the post, it was the Federal Chancellery, but it was not the main affected, the Bundesrechenzentrum. Who initiated the project? – We know: It was not the post, it was not the Bundesrechenzentrum, so it only remained the Federal Ministry of Finance or the Federal Chancellery. Was it – that interested You will certainly also be out there – any arrangements, opinions or the like, so that you can protect these data in the Bundesrechenzentrum? – No, there wasn’t, not even the smallest onepageer. And has the project been discontinued after the data scandal in January 2019? – No – we also know that from the files – only a few days later the project continued, a few months later it was completely withdrawn. All of this to the surface, please, was the performance of the Investigation Committee – from me and my colleagues in the Ibiza Investigation Committee – and one can rightly be proud that this has come to light. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Hammerschmid.]] Finally, what I would like to say: If you're pretending to be nothing today, and it's de facto as if you've just thought out loud, I'm telling you: The costs, the opinions, but also the testimonies say something different. In principle: If you say the opposite today, it's actually an intrusion of a high-risk plan – a high-risk plan that you wanted to sell the data Achilles of the Republic, all our most private secrets to the data dealer Post. It also has nothing to do with civil policy if you do not disclose all the cards. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16056	Member of the European Parliament, Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16077	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! [[Abg. Martin Graf: Who was it now?]] If you read through this answer, you can only say – the colleagues have already done it before – that: This request has not been answered by Weitem. I should like to thank Mrs Tomaselli, who has taken over the task of the Minister for Finance to answer the questions. What is already significant is that this does not happen for the first time in your department and not for the first time in general, when you look at the members of the government of the ÖVP. I know this from my own experience with many resorts, especially with Mrs. Tanner: I can't remember when I got back a properly answered request, an answer with which you can start something too – that you get something back on simple questions and say: That's the answer. – Then, as opposition or as parliament as a whole, we could make something out of it. It would be important that the Greens, too, increase the pressure on the ÖVP that the responses to the questions are finally delivered. If the ÖVP were to deal with the data of the Austrians, as it seems to be doing with its own actions – this is seen in the answer to this question, in which it is tried not to let things come up – it would be better to order the data of the citizens in Austria than it is now. We do not have the situation for the first time in the last few months, that will be done with it lightly, if not negligently. I should like to remind you of the case of the Supplementary Register a few months ago, in which one million data sets were freely available on the Internet over years. Who was responsible? – An ÖVP minister, or in this case an ODP minister. I can remind you of the Federal Ministry of the Interior: A few months ago we had the scandal that the entire data of the ZMR were available via the GIS and were offered for sale in the Darknet. Who was responsible? – Of course, an ÖVP minister. We had the case for the family hardy: In this case too, hundreds of private data were sent by e-mail to any other person – and that was even about the Iban, i.e. account data. That was the family ministry, of course – you can guess once – under ODP leadership. This is how the ÖVP deals with our data, and then it turns out that the ÖVP even wants to sell it – for little money, as the files show very clearly. It wasn't about doing a business with it, but it was just about selling it somehow. The question is why. Why does the ÖVP actually want it? I have a very striking explanation for this from my point of view. The ÖVP can do one thing well: She can handle data well herself. There is hardly a party in Austria that has so strongly built its campaign on data. In the BRZ, of course, there are not uninteresting data: Health records, Elga, financial data – everything is there. This is not so uninteresting for a campaign. I am very sure that it was actually a matter of bringing this data to the private sector first, in order to buy it for myself – probably at a very, very cheap price – in order to control campaigns and get the Republic even more into its own hands. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] One thing is very conscious of the ÖVP: Data is equal to power. One thing ÖVP has repeatedly proved over the past few years: When it comes to power, it's unscrupulous, and then it goes on. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] There was a beautiful discussion about the last few months about who knew about it. That's where it was called by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic: I've never heard of this, I've read it in the media somewhere. – In the meantime, it is clear: Do you know who knew? Do you know who was an integral part of this working group? – Mr Bonelli. We all know who Mr Bonelli is. Mr Bonelli is one of Sebastian Kurz's closest allies, and the Federal Chancellor wants us to know that he knows nothing about all of this. – Of course he knew about it. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] From my point of view, it is quite clear: With this operation Edelstein, the ÖVP wanted to sell the gemstones of the Republic, the citizens, in order to gain its own power. You, Mr Finanzminister, simply did not answer that question. You just said: It's all right anyway, everything's great. We don't answer that because we can't. – This is very, very negligent. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I think it is high time that the ÖVP began to handle data properly on the one hand and on the other hand respect this House and finally answer questions as this House deserved.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16173	The application is properly filed and is therefore under negotiation. As no one has spoken about this, the debate is closed and we are voting. I ask before the vote: Can we start with the vote? [[Call to the SPÖ:Don't sit in the gallery anyway, Mr President.]] We agreed in the President that we would ask the club members if we could vote. SPÖ? Green? FPÖ? - Yes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by Mr Drobits, Mr Hafenecker, Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this request for a sign of approval. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. [[15:39:53]] 3rd. Point Health Committee report on the government template (232, B.C.E._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Health Telecommunications Act 2012 (291 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16211	I will resume the negotiations on the agenda items and I will go to item 3. There was no oral reporting. Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16241	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, We now have a thematic change. We are in the debate on the Health Telecommunications Act, its regulated electronic vaccination and the central vaccination register. This is not so large a leap in content to the short debate that has just gone by, because in the previous debate it was also about data security, about the value of data in order to protect data from sales. Under Federal Minister Hartinger-Klein, we have already started to develop the electronic vaccination in 2018, simply and decisively because of the fact that modern digital applications significantly increase the state of health information, especially in the health ministry, about the rates of vaccination, about the effectiveness of vaccination concepts, and the previous administrative standard, the classical vaccination that was to be stamped and picked, is very often lost and in no way centralized. Now, out of this very useful idea of advanced digitalization, which should actually help citizens, something that we reject from freedom, namely a data moloch in the form of a central vaccination register, which stores a large number of data that are not necessary from our point of view in order to meet the primary objective of this electronic vaccination. I'm only allowed to read to you once, because maybe some one or other person has not read this template exactly which data is to be stored: The information on citizens should include: ‘Name, date of birth, gender, address of residence, data on accessibility, information on a case-by-case representation, social security number, field-specific person identification health, municipal code, titre determination, vaccination and special vaccinations’. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we have already put this criticism in committee. This form of data collection, this additional data moloch, which is created in the form of the central vaccination register, is far too extensive from the content and is therefore rejected by us – hardly surprisingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16278	Mr Schalmeiner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16299	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! In June of this year we thought, well, now it would be time for us to look at our children's FSME vaccinations. We think it would be about time again now, and then we just looked around and then we found the vaccination pass sometime. It is then – as so often – exactly in the last drawer in which you look. We then came up with it: Upsiwupsi, we have not only forgotten for a few days or a few weeks to have a booster vaccination with our children, but we have missed one child by three years and another by five years. Such a thing happens when you don't really have the whole thing in the final effect and if you don't have the whole thing in the field. And that happens not only to me, but to me. This happens very, very many parents, and of course it does not just happen to the children, but it just happens to everyone and everyone in this country. That's quite normal, so you'd like to forget something like that. The E-Imppass is a way to get a better grip on this for each and every one of us in the future, perhaps by reminding you to have a freshener, for example. This is a good story and, accordingly, positive from our point of view. What my colleague Kaniak just mentioned, this collection of data: Well, we still don't really know how the rate of vaccination in this country is very, very many diseases. We do not know how many people in Austria have actually been vaccinated against measles. We don't know what it looks like with Keuchhusten, HPV et cetera – just because we don't have the data for it. Here we can collect anonymous data without attacking the personal freedom of each or every individual. It is also very important to me that the E-Vaccine – even if sometimes in the social media – is pretended to be the rear door for a general vaccination – does not, of course, mean a general vaccination obligation. We have all spoken against each other, we have heard it from all sides of the agenda items 1 and 2 even today, and I would also like to say it again here: There will be no general vaccination obligation, and not precisely because of the e-vaccination. There is no opt-out option at the E-Imppass, which is true, but I didn't have it at the paper vaccination. I got it, and when I filled it, I filled it, and if I didn't fill it, I didn't do it. And it's exactly the same with the E-Imppass. So let us stop trying to get the people out here with Trumpist rides, which is not a matter, but let us return to the facts! I would like to see today perhaps all five parties agree together. Perhaps the FPÖ can refer once again to facts and then still agree. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16348	Mr Vogl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16369	Mr President. High house! I believe that Mr Schalmeiner's story has clearly explained how it looks in practice. I think many of us have problems finding a grip on the vaccine. Many of us are probably not 100% sure whether all vaccinations are actually registered. Many of us may also have more than one vaccination. And all these problems solve the electronic vaccination. However, one should also point out the important aspect that vaccination is something that prevents it. WHO estimates that by being vaccinated, about 2 to 3 million people die less per year, and we could save much more people lives if we increased the rate of vaccination. The WHO speaks of about 1.5 million people. However, Mr Schallmeiner also mentioned an essential aspect of people's confidence in vaccination. Now we know that people can be vaccinated, in our society are something like a protective shield, which means that epidemics can spread less well, that dangerous diseases such as measles in Austria are almost completely extinct. People who can be vaccinated also protect the people who are not vaccinated. That is why it is so important that we have high confidence in the population when it comes to vaccination. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now, of course, with the corona pandemic, the hope of fighting it is aimed at an effective vaccine. I say once, pictures on which a Russian president quickly leaves his daughter vaccinated once to prove that the drug is harmless, do not strengthen people's confidence that this is really done. That is why it is important to really fight for people's trust here, to ensure that everything is well secured. I have a bit of a fear, because if we let this year's revue pass, we recognize that the Chancellor has offered a very meaningful contact tracking app on the altar of political everyday life, that a meaningful traffic light solution has also been shot down by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. I do not want to experience that a meaningful vaccination solution that would help us limit the Covid pandemic will also be shot down by the Federal Chancellor. Let us not shake the trust that the people have in vaccinations! It's an important asset we have.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16420	Mr Saxinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16442	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I always ask patients in the ambulance in burns whether they have been vaccinated against wound cramps, tetanus, and in ticks, if there is sufficient vaccination against brain inflammation transmitted by FSME viruses and ticks. Do you know what I often get as an answer? – I don’t know, I lost my vaccination pass, I don’t find it anymore. Do what? Even in the private sector of a multi-member family, the question was often whether the FSME vaccination was still sufficient and where the paper vaccination was. A feverish search was the result. A week ago, the Scurrility Summit was a 60-year-old man who meant that the vaccination was still at home with the parents, where he was expelled 25 years ago. Ladies and gentlemen, this is now God be over! After years of deafening, laborious struggles and endless discussions, one can now announce the birth of the electronic vaccination. The vaccination pregnancy lasted many years and was and is accompanied by severe birth pains, and the classic yellow or even ancient grey vaccination in paper form has served. The legal basis for an electronic vaccination pass is now creating a novel to the Health Telecommunications Act, which we hope to decide by a majority today. For different reasons, the paper-based vaccination passport no longer meets the requirements for modern health care. We have already mentioned: For example, the documentation of a person's vaccine is often incomplete. Furthermore, the paper-based vaccination passport often fails to show which pathogens protect the received vaccinations and whether the respective protection is still maintained. Knowledge of a rate of vaccination is also at present not possible due to a lack of data base. We estimate that the rate of vaccination in the flu is between 8 and 10 percent. The advantages are now varied. Of course, we hope that there will be an increase in the rate of vaccination, that multiple vaccinations will be prevented, and that we will receive valid data on the rate of vaccination for the first time. Don't worry – and I say it loud and clear, like all my previous speakers – there will be no vaccination. Of course, we try to convince as many people as possible of the sensibleness of vaccinations, because it helps individuals and society as well. Consider why we have grown much older in recent decades! There are several reasons: the healthier way of life, more humane working conditions, better social care, medical progress, and also, most importantly, vaccinations. For many years, I personally have been given annual vaccination against flu and will, of course, also be using a secure Covid vaccine approved in Europe. A central goal of the vaccination is also the memory function. Isn't it wonderful to be reminded of a vaccination by phone? The vaccination is intended to be linked to a central vaccination register and the existing systems of the national anity management systems are also connected. To calm down the data protectors: It is unproblematic in terms of data protection, as only the vaccination can be accessed and not necessarily the Elga. And what about after death? – The stored data must be deleted ten years after the date of death. So the paper vaccination is no longer necessary in the future. A link is also to be made with the Austrian national vaccination plan. I see a total increase in quality in health care and a service for patients as well as for the medical profession. It will also not take long until you are electronically reminded of vaccinations. I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] It's good that the electronic vaccination card is finally coming. Let's all use it! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16530	The amendment is sufficiently supported, properly introduced and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16556	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! If you want to bring something on in the Austrian health system, you need a long breath. Our NEOS application for an electronic vaccination has been decided in the first health committee of the Black and Blue Government at that time, and this law is finally coming; but even then, the Green Minister of Health has managed to introduce a provision that would have removed almost the entire data protection of the Elga system if there had not been a media appeal before the committee in good time. All right, now we're finally getting this electronic vaccination. The advantages have been described and I join them. But it must also be said that the minister of the pendulum clock, Mr Anschober, does not lead to some things that would be quite easy to get away with and of which the population believes that that would be so. The fact that positive PCR test results are still not available in Elga and that the mayor, but not the doctor, is informed when a parish citizen has been tested positively is completely absurd. There the communication between the Ministry and Elga-GmbH does not work. You should, I think, take an eye on where the dog is buried. It would be technically very possible to do a lot of things we simply don't do. Instead, we try to collect the data of the PCR tests in some way and somehow get an overview. You could have all of this in the Electronic Health Act, but we don't have it. Maybe you'll prepare it because maybe we need it for the next pandemic. Before that, you can't do it at this time of work.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16587	Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16608	Mr President. Estimated Minister! High house! Much has already been said on this point by my previous speakers. The Health Telematics Act of 2012, which is being innovativeized today, is actually paves the way for electronic vaccination. Already in 2017, under the chairmanship of Dr. Pamela Rendi-Wagner, the Federal Objective Control Commission with Social Security and Countries has been given the opportunity to do so. From my point of view, the central point of this regulation is quite clear: This Regulation provides that there is a supply of vaccination that is now complete, uniform, comprehensive and digital. The documentation of vaccinations in the interests of patients is also secure. My criticism is only from the point of view of the data protection officer. I am sitting in the Data Protection Council as well as my follow-up speaker, Mr Ofenauer, and we have already delivered a brief opinion in January, highlighting data protection concerns. The concerns persisted despite the recent presentation of a draft – we were not involved for a while in summer – as part of the notification. In particular, I would like to point to the lack of right of objection with regard to e-medication – in which it exists – but also to the access of the pharmacies to the vaccination data, although there is actually only the possibility of vaccination advice. My personal criticism, which remains, is data security. I have already mentioned this to our Federal Minister, Mr Anschober, in the Health Committee. I was assured that there would be a security concept. It's not known to me until now. I would like to point out once again that an active abuse situation is to be prevented. It is therefore necessary to have a safety concept and also to ensure that security measures are monitored. I cannot say at the moment with certainty that, although they should actually be present, all the safety concepts of the doctors have already been reviewed by the Ministry of Health. That is why I ask you to pay attention to: Data protection in the field of security policy is important. In conclusion, one year's pilot operation: After the end of this year, the evaluation is planned before the full operation begins in 2023. I would ask you to include us again in the data protection field, namely, in the sense of a review. I would also ask you to discuss the possible inclusion of the damage in the area of vaccinations, i.e. the damage to the vaccinations, in the register and to evaluate the deletion of the data again. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16656	Mr Tanda is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16678	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in plenary! Digitalization has long reached our health system. The current law is only a necessary innovation in this regard. Various health apps are becoming increasingly popular. From the simple step counter to the heart rate knife, there are many apps that people voluntarily install on their phones, apps that load data into a cloud, so that they are available everywhere. All of this has been around for a long time. There are also pilot projects to rehabilitate people with heart failure who are monitored by means of a telemedicine care program and training program, such as heart mobile in Tyrol and heart mobile in Styria. The amendment of the Health Telecommunications Act was therefore an urgent adaptation to the digital conditions of our time. The creation of a legal basis for the processing of personal data for the purpose of evaluation and use of digital health systems now allows the introduction of the electronic vaccination passport, which my previous speakers have already mentioned. The electronic vaccination is rolled out throughout Austria after a one-year test phase and allows a continuous and complete documentation of the vaccination status. How often do we hear from colleagues Saxinger that you don't find his vaccination pass? My age is still grey-brown. I know his color, but I honestly have no idea where he is, for that I have two more yellows lying around somewhere. I'm certainly not the only one – or do we really remember every date of a refresher vaccination, or when you had the last tetanus vaccination? Do I have to have myself vaccinated against Tetanus every time I go to the clinic and repeat everything? Therefore, the electronic vaccination card not only facilitates an overview of one’s own vaccination status, but also reminds you when the next vaccination is due. I personally and certainly many others support this very much. The resulting central vaccination register serves to document all vaccinations and thus also enables valid statements on vaccination rates. By creation This data base is easier to detect in the population, and multiple vaccinations can be prevented. The amendment also takes into account data protection concerns regarding the large data base. As we have heard today, access takes place exclusively on the person's vaccination data and never on the entire Elga data. We do not all wonder about our pension account and do not oppose it – even there, the data will be personalized, but they will not be accessible and accessible to everyone. This will also be the case with these data: Only the doctor can ask for personalised information. Finally, I would like to say that this novel of the Health Telecommunications Act not only paves the way for the electronic vaccination, but in general creates a legal basis for further development of e-Health applications – and this is urgently necessary.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16726	Mrs Nussbaum is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16747	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! I am very pleased personally that after over two years it has succeeded in getting the electronic vaccination passport on the way. In the initial decision-making process in the Federal Objective Control Commission, in the preparatory work, I was allowed to participate in another function. Digitalization is progressing – and especially in medicine, I think that is good, as one can see in the electronic vaccination, because it will simply bring enormous relief to our citizens. The previous paper vaccine is often lost. You don't know when you need a booster vaccination, whether the vaccine is still upright at all and against which pathogens should even protect the received vaccinations. Even if you get to the hospital, of course you don't have your vaccination passport with you. Multiple vaccinations could be avoided by the electronic vaccination. However, with all these positive concerns for the electronic vaccination pass, it is important to see that there is also a safety concept, because the safety of patients should always be the highest bid. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Through the corona pandemic, the vaccinants have received much excitement and attention again. Against this background, it is important to apply for vaccinations again, to start a campaign. Let us remember the FSME at the time, the tick vaccination campaigns with which it has always been advertised to be vaccinated. With the electronic vaccination, it will also be possible to increase the rate of vaccination, better said: even once see how much vaccination there is in Austria; for we could have already defeated many diseases for a long time, keyword: Measles that you hear from time and time again. It is essential for us, in particular, that there is low level of access to vaccinations and that free vaccinations are also offered throughout the world. We see that at the moment: The city of Vienna has already announced this with regard to flu vaccinations. From our point of view – I would like to point out once again – it would of course be very good, because of the high reputation in the population, that pharmacists and pharmacists can also carry out vaccinations. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Kaniak.]] We from SPÖ therefore welcome the introduction of the electronic vaccination card. However, to make it a success, a well thought-out security concept is needed in the area of data protection. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16805	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Before we get to the voting process, I ask whether we are ready for it. SPÖ? - Okay. ÖVP? - Then I can come to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 291 of the Supplements. There is an amendment tabled by Mr Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Schallmeiner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schallmeiner, Mr President, on paragraph 74. I would ask the ladies and gentlemen to give their consent to a corresponding sign. – This is largely accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – That is again the majority, adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask the ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this to be a sign. – This is the majority and thus the draft law is also adopted at third reading. [[16:07:36]] 4. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the 2019 Social Report of the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs, Health and Consumer Protection (III77/260 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16888	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Members of Parliament have been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16915	Mr President. Dear Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, Values Advisors! I would like to focus on poverty in my speech on the social report 2019. Nearly 17 percent of the people living in Austria, 1.5 million people, are vulnerable to poverty or exclusion, according to the poverty conference in Austria, and the majority are women. Poverty in Austria is therefore female. Why is that so? – That’s a rhetorical question. We all sitting here know the reasons why this is so. In the absence of wage transparency, the pay gap, the so-called gender paygap, leads directly to the Gender Pension Gap. In addition, the grossly uneven distribution of paid and unpaid work between women and men and also a lack of childcare. Part-time workers, single-parents and women living alone are also particularly vulnerable. It was not until last week that Statistics Austria presented up-to-date figures. I like They like to remind you of these, they are very worrying in their expressive strength and also worth being heard. The first number: The gross income of women in Austria is still 17 percent below that of men in 2020. 17 percent! The second number: Women receive an average of 42 percent less pension than men. That is, in reality, a woman gets an average of 951 Euro pension, but a man gets 1,905 Euro. Let these numbers work on you for a moment: 951, 1,905! I ask you: You think that's fair? Is there anyone here in the hall who finds this fair? - No, and that's good. Then there is – and I believe this – consensus that we do not find this fair and that we must do something together against this gender-specific discrimination, namely all those we sit here, regardless of the party colors, because old age poverty in Austria is not red, not green, not pink, not blue and not black, but a sad and embarrassing reality, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] All of us have been elected to change this, and we must do so as quickly as possible. What can we do? What do we have to do to change that? That too – you may already know – is a rhetorical question, because we know exactly what we need to do. We know all the levers. We're telling ourselves that every year. Because we know where to start, we are also with the coalition partner in current discussions on a package of measures against the poverty of women, with which we want to strengthen the economic independence of women and thus protect women from poverty in old age. What are the key points in this package of measures we are currently discussing? – First of all, wage transparency, second contemporary parent and partner part-time models, third the pension division and fourth, above all, the comprehensive expansion of child care. We Greens, of course, are very pleased about yesterday's initiative by the social partners and their call for a comprehensive quality extension of childcare. This is a long-standing demand of the Greens, and the sooner we make nails with heads, the better. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Sir.]] Why is that so important to us? – Because we know that child care is a crucial condition for women to freely decide the extent of their employment and not to slip directly into the poverty of old age directly from the part-time. That's why it's important to us. That is why we are talking to the coalition partner. As a woman's speaker in my group, I will also be looking for talks with all the women's speakers here in the National Council because the subject is so important and we all have to take one line. I do not have much time to speak, but I would like to conclude with a more personal story, ladies and gentlemen. I spoke to my nephew a long time ago; he is 14 years old. He showed me a photo of his class and asked me if it was true that the girls in this class later once less than the boys will earn. If that is actually the case – he has read it in a newspaper – then it is totally unfair; that is a quote. He's right. That's totally unfair. It's up to us to change that. Let's do it!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16988	Next item is the speech of Member of the Muchich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17009	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Just as we have dealt with issues and requests from the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection in Austria so far, we also have to take responsibility when it comes to the social security of people in our country. We are now dealing with the social report 2019, which gives a review of the activities in social policy. Not everything that was decided in this House in 2017 and 2018 was just marked by good social policy. [[Abg. Worm: Why?]] I just remember two examples: The 12-hour day and the 60-hour week, decided by Schwarz-Blau, do not have anything to do with health or social matters; or this Social Assistance Act New, Minister of Social Affairs, in which the Constitutional Court has removed substantial parts – you have not yet brought about these changes that have led to improvements. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Worm: Three!]] But there is also the possibility of taking this social report on the occasion of a comparison, for example between employment and unemployment. In 2018, there was a record employment rate with an unemployment rate of 7.7 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tireberger.]] Now there is a record unemployment with 400,000 people without a job, and experts, including in the AMS, speak out, fear up to 800,000 people without a job in spring. A huge pleite wave is added. In addition, this Federal Government does not take youth unemployment as seriously as it should; 60,000 young people under 25 have no job. The length of residence in unemployment has jumped from three months to five months, i.e. long-term unemployment is getting longer and longer. Yes, people in this country are increasingly of the opinion: This federal government leaves these people behind! Not enough, we still have two issues on the agenda today, which are about an educational bonus. Mrs Bundesminister, here to say that the educational bonus will only be introduced for those who will take a training measure in October – with only 4 euros a day – and all those who are already in education, training and training do not understand the people either. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Nor do people understand, Mrs Federal Minister, that, for this benefit of emergency aid at the level of unemployment benefit, the regulation, which we are now proposing quickly, is unfortunately only valid by the end of the year, although we know very well that this long-term unemployment will continue to concern us in the spring. For this reason, we will also make a request by the SPÖ that this benefit of emergency aid in the amount of unemployment benefit until 31. On March 21, 2021, and you, Mrs Federal Minister, also have the possibility of extending until June, by regulation. I hope that this proposal will find a majority here. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we have many open construction sites in social policy created by Corona, in the area of poverty reduction, Mr Social Minister, in the field of care, in the area of pensions, where there is still an unfair system. Yes, there are uneven pension levels, especially the women need changes; our requests are on the table, our requests are on the committee. Again and again the proposal: all pensions on the table, all contributions, all contributions, all payments from all the institutions. Let us together make a fair social policy in the sense of people, for all people in this country, in Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17077	Next item is the report by Mrs Grünberg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17098	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! At the beginning, I would like to thank our sign language interpreters very much today, because they translate our speeches every time we speak here in the National Council, into sign language – thank you very much! [[General condolences, including congratulations in sign language with Green MEPs.]] But now to the Social Report: It is very extensive with its 180 pages and deals with various issues on which my colleagues have already addressed and will also address. It is very gratifying that the Social Report 2019 dealt with disability policy in a very detailed manner. It has done a lot in this area and also in the last year. I would therefore like to focus in my speech as speaker of the People's Party for People with Disabilities on the field of disability policy and highlight some points that I think are particularly important. This would be the first of the 2012-2020 National Action Plan on Disability. The National Disability Action Plan includes the Austrian Federal Government's strategy to implement the United Nations Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities. The current National Disability Action Plan would have expired at the end of this year. However, an evaluation of the so-called old National Action Plan has been carried out and, in order to allow it to be incorporated, the National Action Plan has been extended by one year to 2021. The new National Action Plan is already in preparation. A comprehensive participation body has been set up in which all the Federal Ministries, the federal states and the social partners, science, disability organisations, self-representatives, the monitoring committee, the public prosecutors as well as the disabled attorneys of the Federal Government are represented. I think it is very special that all people who deal with people with disabilities are sitting at a table and writing a new National Action Plan. It should also be stressed that the so-called inclusion package has been developed in 2017 with the involvement of the disabled organisations; it represents the strengthening of professional participation and the further development and continuation of existing offers for people with disabilities. In addition to the extension of legal protection for people with disabilities, the annual budget for improving the professional participation of people with disabilities has been increased from around 48 million euros in 2017 to 90 million euros per year. In addition, thanks to the decision Inclusion packages for the imposition of an action for association no longer need a recommendation from the Federal Disability Advisory Council and associations may be brought to the attention of large corporations for the exclusion and elimination of discrimination. I would now like to take a closer look at the field of professional participation of people with disabilities. To this end, the report states that professional participation is a central element for the overall social participation of people with disabilities and an inclusive society. That's what I see. The Ministry of Social Affairs has a wide range of needs-based support measures to help people with disabilities to take up the labour market. The Neba services are particularly well accepted, including services such as youth coaching, production schools, vocational training assistance, work assistance and job coaching. Neba offers also play a central role in training up to 18. Thanks to the inclusion package, the measures could be expanded and the funding increased, more than doubled the budget of Neba services from around 60 million euros in 2013 to 137 million euros in 2018. Overall, in 2018, the professional integration of people with disabilities was promoted by EUR 213 million. There is no question that people with disabilities are still not equal to people without disabilities and that people with disabilities still have much more difficulty finding a job today, in 2020. The corona crisis has made this situation worse again. It is up to all of us today to remain committed to the rights of people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17159	Next word is reported to honourable Member Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17181	Mr President. Minister! Minister! High house! Fathers. The Social Report 2019 is, of course, a consideration of the past, but I would nevertheless like to focus very briefly on consumer protection, which this time was very detailed in this report. Very briefly: What works well or what has worked well up to now? – These were, in particular, the eight conciliation bodies, where problems arise in certain areas, are being tried to solve this almost between consumers and businesses in a conciliation procedure. Some 12 000 Austrian citizens have taken advantage of this and this seems to work very well. This is an initiative that the former Minister Hundstorfer introduced at the time and which has actually proved its worth. The work of the Internet Ombudsman also works very well. What does not work or work less well? – At EU level, I think there is unfortunately little satisfaction or little point in reporting consumer protection, and in the VKI – the topic of consumer protection in recent years – there is a new managing director, but no sustainable solution yet. I am already very excited how, if the Minister will then present the budget, as consumer protection and the CCI will be equipped accordingly. What else did we not think worked? – The solution regarding smart meters: They will remember that this was a discussion that has accompanied us for years. Unfortunately, there is still no real opt-out solution; that is, One offers an opt-out solution, where the transmitter is almost disabled – no one can verify – but I can't insist on keeping my old Ferrari counter. Unfortunately, we have lost this fight for consumers. A resurgence of the Consumer Policy Forum, which was always very, very important in this area, but which, as a result of Corona, has remained more or less on the track since the last year, should also be made urgent. Let me take a look at the future, which is much more important! The time during or after Corona will have a lot of problems for consumers. I might want to take two things out very prominently: This is about the entire cash discussion, which has become virulent in the course of Corona and in which many have seen that cash has suddenly not been accepted. We will not get tired of fighting freely – obviously as the only party that wants to receive the cash for consumers. Very clear alarm signs come from Brussels, you will probably have heard: There are plans for EU digital money or euro digital money. As they look, I'm surprised. I hope it doesn't have to do with the corona crisis or perhaps even part of the corona crisis or a deeper plan behind it. As has been said, the issue of consumer protection will be very intensive in the next few years, and I personally and we liberals will not tire of fighting for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17229	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17250	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! With reference to the Social Report 2019, I would like to note that the social and economic situation in Austria and across Europe has changed dramatically since its publication. The figures from the report are no longer up-to-date today. We are talking today about the highest unemployment rate in the second Republic, for example, where record employment and a decline in the unemployment rate were still mentioned before the crisis. A lot has also happened in the field of pensions in the meantime, because before the 2019 National Council election, pension gifts have been decided. The most expensive of these was the discount-free early pension, which will not only increase the pension hole by another 3 billion euros in the longer term, but also the Gender Pension Gap. Although the report addresses this problem, the decision of the drop-off-free early pension has significantly increased the difference from 51 percent to 67 percent. The reason for this is relatively easy to find, because according to our most recent response from the Social Ministry, only men with already high pensions benefit from it. Yeah, it's right. Among the 8 033 beneficiaries in the first half of 2020, only three women were spoken and write, and the average payout is 2 900 euros, 14 times a year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm]] I wonder how this discount-free men's breakfast could happen today. However, this question should also be raised by the members of SPÖ, FPÖ and ÖVP, who are responsible for it. That is why it is necessary for the government to finally get to work and create a sustainable pension system, which also takes more account of women and the prospects for the future of the next generations. [[Congratulation with NEOS.]] But even today I speak again for people with disabilities and their situation on the labour market, because I honestly feel that this is otherwise very few. The unemployment rate of people with disabilities has increased by 120 percent over the last ten years. I do not wish to imagine what the figures will look like in a year. Today I find the following: 371,893 people were reported unemployed in August of this year, 88,233 of whom are unemployed persons with disabilities and with health restrictions, which is 23.7%, a quarter of the unemployed in Austria. Yeah, they're just numbers, but there's an individual case behind each number. We all know that the situation is not only a terrible one for people with disabilities, but it is precisely this group that is particularly difficult in the crisis. These are people who already have little opportunities in the first labour market without crisis, and in this Covid crisis it will become even worse and even more difficult for these people. At the moment, no one can answer many questions: How does the forthcoming wave of termination affect people with disabilities? Will the 50-plus employees with disabilities be the first to go? How will it continue with the companies working with various workshops? Will companies be even more likely to recruit people with disabilities? And again, there is no timetable. That is why I ask you today that we do not push this group of society, which has been a marginal group for a long time, further to the brink. If we create jobs now, this must be inclusive of jobs. We have a human commitment not to think of inclusion until everything else runs smoothly. I promised to say it again and again: Inclusion is not charitative, inclusion is democratic. Last year, in this House, I have been working permanently for people with disabilities and especially for children with disabilities. That is why you can imagine that the situation of the children in Moria is very close to me. For this reason and because I have sworn that in the course of my political career I would like to work every day for inclusion, integration and, above all, for humanity, I would also like to present the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[16:31]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17397	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17421	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing the social report 2019. This is also the year in which Black-Blue has greatly reduced the budget for over-company apprenticeship training. This is also the year in which Black-Blue abolished the training guarantee until 25. Now we have a particularly bad situation on the labour market, and these two measures are now double and triple. We have huge numbers of unemployed young people under 25; the figures from August: 61 761 – this is a plus of 10 093 last year. These numbers prepare me, dear colleagues, really sleepless nights. I hope so, Mrs Minister, you too. You've announced a work foundation. Where is this foundation? Where? Who's doing that? Who's negotiating? Who's involved? Are the social partners already involved? You announced it for autumn. We only know that there will be one, and it is said that 700 million euros will be available. Are the greens involved? Maybe we'll find out something from there. You have only announced it, and I would have liked to know when it will come into force when you finally set up this foundation, which these 62,000 young people expect, which means for their future. I would like to say again and again that we are talking about Vienna and I think Mrs Kugler will speak: Tomorrow, Vienna will decide 13 million euros for a job offensive, for long-term unemployed 50 plus 1.3 million euros for the trainees' association training companies. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] That's almost 15 million euros. And that's not the only package, that's the third package that Vienna has decided for workers and the economy. Mrs Disoski, I can support and sign your speech to 100 percent. Yeah, let's do something, that's unbearable, you can't take it that the Women's pensions and men's pensions. A proposal to improve would be to adopt the Income Transparency Act, which is in the Committee. Let us take the first step and then consider what screws we still have to turn on so that the pensions of men and women do not break up in such a way. Ladies and gentlemen! As the Federal Government has declared the aim of combating poverty in its government programme, in particular child poverty, and as you are writing, which has declared an “integral part of Austrian foreign policy”, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[16:36]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17549	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Member Kugler has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17574	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Yılmaz, in particular! May tomorrow's Vienna Municipal Council decision, which you have spoken about, help the extremely precarious situation in Vienna! We are pleased for the apprentices that the apprentice bonus and also the work foundation are very, very good on the way. Mrs Yılmaz, I would have liked to hear more from you on the social report 2019, because there is a lot of important in it. I'm going to take it in my speech to flip a little through the chapters. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A topic that occurs in almost every chapter in this 2019 social report is the question of how people die in the last part of life, in old age, as well as in death. Death we hide very often, from our personal life, but also from public life. Thank God, thanks also to the Ministry of Social Affairs, this issue is like a red thread through the report. That's the quality of life in old age. It is about creating a positive age picture. It's about poverty in old age, care. There, for example, it says that we need to support caring relatives, it also means that the hospice and palliative medicine must be taken over into regular funding – a long-term demand. It's about senior policy, it's about medical law. If we implement these proposals when we work on quality of life in old age, then people in old age will be fine, and we will hear few people saying that they don't want to live that way anymore. There is a desire for him to die, then if life no longer seems worth living. There was a committee of inquiry in Parliament five years ago, and then the then chairman of the Hospice Association of Styria, Helmut Strobl, said a very important sentence; I read this sentence. He says: The desire to die, the desire for Death aid is only the desire to end a humane state and, in fact, not the desire to die. That, he says, is the experience of all our employees. - Quote. And how often is this confirmed: If circumstances are improved, then the wish for death disappears. There is a survey from the spring of this year of the University of Utrecht: People who express a death wish in Holland, old people who say they don't want to live anymore, say that 56 percent because they're lonely, 42 percent because they worry about falling to the burden of others, and 36 percent because they think they just don't get out with the money. Here we see where we can sit. Thank you, Minister Anschober, for having announced a pact against old age, I welcome it. Age is not just a corona theme, loneliness makes sick. In other countries, it is already a major political issue, I am pleased that it will also be with us. There are people who say: I don't want to live anymore because my life is a burden to others. When I say: Yes, we can help you, we can help you die, then I have solidified myself with the death wish of this person, not with the person concerned. I am glad that we are going another way in Austria, that we decided unanimously in 2015 in Parliament's Committee on Inquiry, that we are saying yes to treatment autonomy – no one should be treated against his will – but that we are also saying that our response to the death aid debate is: Care, hospice, palliative medicine and the fight against aging, and therefore we do not need to kill on demand or aid for suicide in Austria. At a conference in Hartheim Castle – one of the euthanasia centers of the National Socialists – Tobias Moretti said that “it makes a society richer to have room for what is not normal, for what, for dying; it simply belongs to it”. Death aid, he says, “as if one were to cut off a season as if one were to abolish autumn. ” In this 2019 social report, what we need to do is explain in detail, so that our society is a humane one in which death belongs to life and in which we die at the hand of a human being rather than by the hand of a human being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17635	Mrs Ragger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17656	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate women ministers! Estimated Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the house! First of all, I should like to thank Mrs Kugler and draw attention to her comments, namely a subject on which I would like to thank your predecessor, Mrs Minister, former Minister Dr. Zarfl, and highlight their activity, because I myself allowed myself years ago to look at something that is not commonplace: the hospice and palliative development in children who are accompanied by them when they die. Anyone who has experienced this can say that it is coldly going down the back when you are there in the last parts of a child’s life and see how it is passed by the close relatives in his last moment. There is such a center in Nuremberg, an incredible, very well developed center that has led to a rethinking in Germany, which means that children are sick and supported and help them in this area. Therefore, I think it was important to define these approaches also in the budget of the Social Ministry, also as an outflow and first precipitation of the Care Fund Act. This is one thing I think is really necessary and where, I believe, there is also agreement between the parties, including the Minister, to further develop it. The second area – and this is, as it were, a little bit my horse – is dealing with older people – we should not lose sight of all that is happening in the Covid area, in the Corona crisis and the other areas of problem – and the development in this area. It must be made clear that we have to further expand this chain from case management to home, from the development of mobile services to the stay of older people in a nursing home, because it is very essential, on the one hand, to the economic side and on the other, the support of these older people. That is why I am glad that the nursing study, which has been commissioned by your predecessor, Mrs. Minister, namely by our minister Dr. Zarfl, will hopefully be completed soon and will be presented, so that we can see what needs we have in the years 2025 and then to be able to train and care for the caregivers accordingly. I should like to appeal once again – although the ÖVP is a bit on the brake – to look at this model of Swiss care, as it is necessary to ensure its own supply. The third area, which at that time has already caused great upsight at the Alpbach Forum, is the Ambient-Assisted-Living area – since we are a little further in Austria. I looked at this once in Scotland, they introduced it in 1999 – unimaginable, 20 years before us! That's where we're limping behind. This is about alternative ways of caring for people. You can also look for instructions in Amsterdam, where there are 2 000 apartments that have been gathered for Ambient Assisted Living, because in this area we really need action. I think that you can also find good approaches with the Ministry. I should like to say in summary that the Social Report contains many points that have developed further, but that we also have quite clearly the need for these older people. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17708	Next item is the report by Mr Gödl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17729	Mr President. My precious women's ministers! Federal Minister! High house! There is no doubt that Austria is one of the countries which provides for its citizens and for all those who legally reside in its territory, one of the world's widest social systems. The social report 2019 gives a good overview, and many topics have already been addressed by my previous speakers, in disability policy, in labour market policy or, most recently, in the field of care. What is the original task of a functioning and crisis-resistant social system? – It is intended to ensure that those who urgently need help because they cannot help themselves. And, of course, crisis-proof also means that only those who can't help themselves are getting help, but those who don't have a claim to receive social benefits that can help themselves. So the Solidarity community only jumps in if necessary. I would therefore like to focus on a point which is also illustrated in the Social Report, namely the question of social assistance in general, social assistance in particular, also in connection with what we have mentioned so far, the need-oriented minimum security. It is worth looking at the statistical figures, which are also shown in this report: In 2019, that is, before the Corona crisis, a total of around 268,000 people in Austria have received minimum security, i.e. about 3 percent of the population living here. If you look at the numbers in detail, you have to ask some question, namely: How is it possible that, in 2019, in all eight federal states except Vienna, there were 112,000 minimum insurance providers – 112,000 – and only in the state of Vienna 166 000? [[Call the ÖVP: Madness!]] And to be politically unwarranted: How is it possible, for example, that there were only 3,000 minimum insurance providers in Burgenland last year, but in Vienna, as has already been said, 166 000? Thus, in Vienna it was 55 times as many as in Burgenland, although Vienna has only about six times the population. Is this really, ladies and gentlemen, just the big city factor, as is claimed so often, or is it a system question, is it the system mayor Ludwig/Social City Councillor Hacker? – Of course, it is also a system question. [[Abg. Lightness: After finally...!]] 59 percent of all minimum insurance providers in Austria are currently living in Vienna! And there you have to ask if Vienna is really that different or if perhaps this isn't quite the right thing to do. If one goes even deeper into the figures, it must also be noted that some 50 000 of these minimum insurance providers in Vienna are also asylum and subsidiary guardians – that is, also a question of a possible lack of integration, which is to be found in the city of Vienna. Ladies and gentlemen! It is precisely the minimum guarantee with the social assistance logic that only those who cannot help themselves are particularly sensitive matter. Why? – Because this is in the field of tension between the question: What can be achieved as income for the livelihood itself, and what does the solidarity of the community provide in the event of need? And this is where our principle continues, which we always express in the first place: Whoever goes to work in Austria must not be stupid! Whoever gets up in the morning and pursues employment, let him not be stupid! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The social state needs a broad acceptance in every facet – of course, accepted by those who need it, but also accepted by those who allow it, namely by those many millions of people who put into the system and thus only allow this broad social state with its tax performance. And for this, ladies and gentlemen, the social report we are now taking note of and deciding on is a good basis. We must continue to develop our social system, and this federal government has committed itself to that.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17784	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Before we enter the vote, I should like to ask again: Can we come to the vote? FPÖ? - Thank you. We now come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of this report III-77 of the supplements. I would ask the ladies and gentlemen who are taking note of the report to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Fierce, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Inclusion of 100 children in particular in need from Moria'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rendi-Wagner, ladies and gentlemen, on the protection and hope of children from Moria. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I should also like to ask for his approval. – This is the minority, rejected. [[16:51:42]] 5. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government Template (342 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Environmental Promotion Act (356 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17857	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Lukas Hammer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17888	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Today is a good day for climate protection. They are always right to ask where the big litters are in climate protection – today one is decided. Today, with the amendment of the Environmental Promotion Act, we are making 1 billion euros available for climate protection within two years. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I am particularly interested in three points in this package, and these are essential points, which are really milestones. The first is that we have achieved an enormous medium increase in thermal regeneration. We have at our disposal 650 million euros for the next two years so that households and businesses can clean up their homes thermally, exchange their heating systems. How was that in the past? – There were also these instruments, but if, for example, a company wanted to have a new heating, he had to know that the promotion action started in March and the funds were already gone in July. That was a lottery game, and this lottery game, this first come, first served and then everything is gone again, there is no longer. In the next two years there will be as much money as in the past nine years. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second important point, which I am particularly pleased with, is that this is really a paradigm change in the way we make climate policy in Austria, is just transition. There are many people who do not help our climate promotions. A minimum pensioner, for example, who has an oil heating that costs 20 000 euros to exchange, can, even if she receives 10 000 euros from the federal government and country, also vote the remaining 10,000 euros. We have created our own pot for this, with 100 million euros in addition over the next two years. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Thirdly – and this is also a new thing –: We are creating a new instrument, the so-called climate liability, by which we mobilise private capital for climate protection. The Federal Government assumes liability for securing energy contract contracts. This can be imagined as follows: If you want to change your heating, a installer comes, you don't have to worry, you don't have to pay for anything. The installer is paid for the next 15 years through the energy savings generated by the newly installed heating system. And as far as climate liability is concerned, it is so that we take the risk from the installer company. I would also like to make an amendment in this context, which, because of its length, I would like to explain only in broad outlines. So, in principle, it is about transferring liability to Austria Wirtschaftsservice GmbH – that is the difference to the government template – which in turn is secured by a loss of the federal government. This means that a contractual volume of 1 billion euros can be secured. Ladies and gentlemen, once again: This law is a powerful signal that we seriously believe with climate protection that now the energy transition is beginning, and it is also a signal to all companies – whether they are installers, whether they are the company, the heating plants, or whether the construction company is for thermal renovation – who now know: In the next few years, the order books are full. It is also a signal to all the people in this country that they can be sure that we will support them if they want to get out of oil and gas, and it is above all a signal to all those who have to turn around every euro anyway, that we do not leave them behind in the climate change and in the energy transition. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[16:56]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18090	The amendment is properly submitted and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18114	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are adopting a novel of the Environmental Promotion Act, which, we have just heard, means increasing the financial resources. What does that mean? – That means more money for thermal renovations, i.e. more money for heating boilers, for example. And of course that makes sense, because what happens? It saves us energy. When we clean up our homes thermally, we save energy. However, the stakeholders also save energy costs. We also save CO2 emissions. And the fourth point – especially important to me – is: This will create jobs. Right now, at this time when we read about cancellations every week when we hit the newspaper, it's important and central. We as SPÖ have also called for exactly such measures in our election programme because they create jobs and are good for the environment. That must go hand in hand, and that is why we will agree today. We are pleased about these positive results by these new laws, and we must hold on to them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In the sense of constructive criticism, however, I should like to point out two shortcomings. First: These funds are set up for two years. We know that if such a thing is to be sustainable, if there are really as many households as possible to participate in such a promotion and to pick it up, it will need the long-term perspective. Secondly, It must be socially compatible. A boiler exchange can quickly cost more than 10 000 euros. Even if we support 50 percent, several thousand euros remain, which many households simply do not have. I have emphasized this on this pult now, I think, for the third time. – Now there is an additional funding rail for households with particularly low incomes, which is worth 100 million euros. Ours, as I mean, is legitimate concern: Is that going to be enough? You can't say that, Mrs. Minister. As this is defined, which families are entitled to it, we do not yet know, and therefore we do not yet know whether it will be rich. - But it must be! I just briefly picked out a few numbers: Only 140,000 people cannot afford to keep their homes warm in winter. That means we can't let these families down. Only – two more figures – 30,000 households were turned off the electricity and 5,000 households because they could no longer pay. So now I put in a request for an amendment, which I read at the same time; only briefly in German: What do we ask? – That we evaluate whether the 100 million euros are rich. It can't be too much required that we really evaluate in order not to let anyone down – especially the families that need it so urgently that we shouldn't let go with high energy costs. On behalf of the Group of the [[Quoted print version removed]] As I said, in German: We want to make sure nobody's hanging. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[17:01]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18253	The amendment is sufficiently supported, properly introduced and under negotiation. Mrs Geessler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18277	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! Today is indeed a day of joy for climate protection. I am not just saying this as a minister, but as a longtime observer of climate policy. We have never had as much money for climate protection in Austria as now, and that is really a great reason for joy. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Mr Hammer has already led a little through the measures that we can take here, but I would like to do so again in relation to the question of jobs. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] For the first time, we have a commitment framework on the issue of thermal renovation and boiler exchange, i.e. out of dirty oil heating, dirty fossil gas heating, pure in renewable heating systems, a lot of money and a multi-year perspective. – That’s new, that’s the first time we’re doing it; that’s important. This is also important because we will create and secure 46 000 jobs in the next few years. This figure alone shows why: Climate protection is the best economic programme!, has its full authority. We create local jobs, we create local value added, because the installer changes the heating system from the place, and we do something for climate protection. This threefold benefit, this threefold benefit, we create with each of the measures in this package, which we can decide today, hopefully with a broad majority. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I would also like to stress the second point, energy contracting, i.e. the use of guarantees for the mobilization of private capital, particularly in the area of thermal rehabilitation. It's a new instrument. We also try this for the first time in this way in Austria. This is a really big lever to mobilise money for the area of thermal rehabilitation. We all know that this is one of the hardest nuts to crack, namely to get the thermal recovery rate up. Now, with this new instrument, we really have an extra lever to mobilise capital. That too is an important new point in this law. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I would also like to point out that, of course, this UFG-Novelle is only a complement to many other existing measures that serve climate protection in the economic package. Climate protection plays a central role in the community package, and we only build on climate-active standards in the school development plan. The investment premium, also a perfect innovation in Austria: We double the premium for climate protection and – this is the novum – we have excluded climate-damaging investments. That is, we're starting the exit, no more money for fossil infrastructures. I think that this is really a big step, an important step, a necessary step. But above all I would like to address the question of energy poverty and also the amendment tabled by the SPÖ. Thank you very much for working together so constructively on this topic – and I think that is very, very many people here in the hall, but also throughout Austria – in order to improve it. I would like to take up a few points from the request: The support for low-income households, which are difficult to pay energy bills, heating bills, will be dealt with by this programme over the next two years in combination with the federal states. We will therefore not build up our own resolution structures for the next two years, but we will strengthen what we already have on successful projects in the federal states. Therefore, the formula also comes up: up, because it depends, of course, on this combination, however many of these means are collected. We will do our utmost to ensure that this will, at least, be the EUR 100 million, that we really spend these funds, because we know we need it. We also know that we want to evaluate this. We can also evaluate it here, only in view of the combination of the funds, also with the programmes of the federal states. We will, of course, also evaluate this programme every three years. This report will also be submitted to the National Council, of course also with this new programme inside. The third point I would like to mention concerns the question of definition. It is indeed true that no agreement has yet been reached on this in Austria. which is to be defined as a weak income. Where? Who? What, then, does it mean to be low on energy in this context? We want to do this work, we have to do it, because we want to secure this programme in the long term, and therefore we also want to put a focus on energy poverty and low-income households in the Energy Efficiency Act, and we also want to develop a common definition in the context of the coordination with the federal states, because if federal and regional funds are to be best complemented and limited, we also need a common picture of it. So we're working on it, I can assure you, because it's really an important question. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I would like to take one more point – Mr Lukas Hammerhat mentioned it earlier – in terms of important signals; Above all, signals to the market and to the economy in the sense of: This has a perspective, we need to build up the appropriate resources, we also need the relevant skilled workers, we need training there. So that means, that's really a signal: In the coming years, these services will be strongly and increasingly requested. That doesn't stop either, because – my final point –: Promotions are part of it, but I think it is very important that we keep in mind that we also need to complement this with the appropriate framework conditions that we need to create. There are also regulatory requirements for changing to climate-friendly heating systems. You know, we have the phase-out of oil and coal by 2035 – i.e. complete, also out of stock – analogous to this, a phase-out for fossil gas heating systems, including improvements in the living standards for the implementation of decarbonisation measures, tax improvements et cetera. Today we're getting an important, big building block on the way. Many further steps will follow. However, I would like to thank you today for a broad support on this day of joy for climate protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18380	Next speaker: Member of the European Parliament Johannes Schmuckenschlager. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18405	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we can continue and continue the successful path of the Environmental Promotion Act. I think it is very important to support the successful way out of the fossil energy sources accordingly to renewable energy sources. The question of whether this is really “future, ” I think, can be answered absolutely with Yes. 1 billion euro for climate protection is sustainable, for several reasons: On the one hand, we have the tangent that we can save energy, and on the other hand the tangent that we can provide energy from renewable energy sources, which can also grow in part with us. That is to say, there is a huge national economic bill that will probably bring us over this 1 billion euro at the end of the day, which we can benefit the state in a national way. This is the success model of the Environmental Promotion Act, because only in this way will it be possible to link the economy with climate change in the long term. To ensure sustainability in all pillars – namely social, environmental and economic sustainability – this will work really successfully in the long term. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I believe that it is also a good approach for private initiatives – if you do a boiler exchange or something similar – to set up activities with state support and thus ultimately create impulses, and this impulse really needs our economy, because, through the Covid-19 crisis, we also have to set in motion all the levers on the labour market, how we can create jobs and bring our economic system away from carbonization to a modern economic system that is independent of coal and gas at the end of the day. But that is not the only investment in this area – and that has already been mentioned. We also have the possibility of combining with the Covid investment premium – in the 7 percent range or in the 14 percent range – and this lifts the whole thing again. Therefore, I believe that the next two years will be very well spent with these funds, with this 1 billion euros. In addition, we will invest even more money in this sector in the long term and in the long term, but in particular in the long term and in the long term, we will be able to achieve positive benefits for our economy, for our jobs and for the overall economic success of Austria. That is to say, we are laying the foundation for a positive economic development on issues of economic climate protection today.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18456	Next speaker: Mr Walter Rauch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18480	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! . Yes, Mr Leichtfried, you should have mentioned this during the previous debates, where you met. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] Nevertheless, Mrs Bundesminister, this environmental law is good, we agree with him, it sets very, very many accents which we naturally support and have already forced in the past. They have referred to the job offensive in this area, 46 000 new jobs in times of this corona crazyness which this Federal Government has brought into the world are very, very good. This needs the economy, people need it, we need it in the social field; it is all the more important that you have set accents. The fact that you invest 100 million euros for social weakness is a drop on the hot stone or a small sub-area. [[Abg. Maurer: 1 billion!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Luke Hammer.]] Why 100 million euros? – As the owner of an apartment, a house, the subject is that if you make a heating switch, you need not only 10 000 euros for the conversion, but also money for additional measures. One boiler out and another plant inside, of course it is not done, but one needs comprehensive measures to be able to use it accordingly. We also support Mrs Herr's amendment, which is also worthy of support because the 100 million euros are only guaranteed for two years. This is a factor which is very tight in time, especially for a budget starting in 2021 or 2022. A budget usually takes much longer, and there is also a need for a longer period of time. In this respect, I would like to be the next step in extending this measure to the next few years, at least to the entire legislative period. A point maybe that's important: The 650 million euros you provide for the renovation of buildings are important, they are a good approach to the economy. We shall vote in favour of this request. – In this sense: Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18529	Next speaker: Mr Michael Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18553	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Values Advisors! I listened very carefully, the chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection called it a huge signal for climate protection, and I asked myself how we are now assessing NEOS to increase environmental promotion. I want to go ahead – although I naturally see points that I do not like so well – that we will agree to this bill, this increase, because it goes a bit in the right direction. One speaks of a signal, but I would rather speak of a signal for climate protection, and that can also be very well justified. [[Abg. Maurer: 1 billion is so...?]] – Dear Mrs Maurer, if you listen to me, I can also explain to you why it is a signal and not a signal. This is not only about the money value you use, but also about what you get. And the central element is: In climate policy, there are tools – if climate policy is a football game, one can take out the Tormann and then put on an elf, that would be the CO2 tax – with which one can, as it were, send signals over the market that trigger investment in the right areas, with equal or reduced resources. Instead of taking out the goalman by means of a corresponding tax reform, simply place more balls at the Elfer point and hope that you will then get well into the gate. That is exactly why I believe that it is not the right way to put an increase to 750 million euros alone. You are now spending significantly more money, but you have not made any of the reforms recommended by the experts. I would just like to mention a few small examples: The target is a 3 percent renovation of all unrenovated buildings. The problem is that neither the last federal government nor this federal government has managed to find a definition with the federal states in the last, I think, for eight years, which means that there is even a rate of rehabilitation. Is it with or without heating? With windows, with attic and so on? That is, last year neither Turquoise nor Green managed to find a definition which is actually the goal of how the recovery rate calculates itself. However, they are spending one goal, namely a 3 per cent recovery rate. A second essential point is that, of course, much is organized federally. We can still reorganise so much if we do not solve the structural problems behind it. In the country it is relatively simple, we have nine different construction regulations – at least with many exceptions – we have a dispersal, we have a promotion of many structures. There I can put the best low-energy house, it does not help me, I do not come after with the renovation when then new roads need to be built for these areas. Another point, in the city – and this is also a subject that needs to be resolved, and it is not easy because it is a social question –: Vienna has above-average many unscathed buildings, we all know the old buildings, where it goes in, where one heats for the neighbors. Why is that so? – Not only because the city of Vienna is not sufficiently thermally rehabilitating, but also because of the fact that many private owners have to make an investment, but also because it has the effect of reducing energy costs. Then the one who invests can no longer change the savings, so to speak, and then the motivation is lost. However, these problems are not addressed. And that's exactly the point, why I'm saying we're increasing the budget now and we're hoping more thermally rehabilitated, but we're not defining exactly what the recovery rate is, we're not dealing with the structural problems, neither in the country nor in the city, and that's clearly too little. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I say it again and again, I say it in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and I say it in plenary, especially in the direction of Greens – I am afraid, hops and malts –: A CO2 tax and marketable incentive systems need to be used to ensure that private capital is used in such a way that climate protection is attractive to many. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Luke Hammer.]] It takes an end to the dispersal and surface crop for a corresponding biodiversity, but also for the next generations that they are experiencing the Austria we are still seeing today, and it needs – as I am not going to say anything new and surprising – also a modern rental right that is socially balanced, but is also not an obstacle to letting old buildings shine in new luster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18602	Next speaker: Mrs Astrid Rössler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18623	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! The amendment to the Environmental Promotion Act, which is adopted today and which provides for 1 billion euros, is indeed an important and clear signal. It may be seen by one or another as too small and too little – whether the glass is half full or one quarter full, you can already discuss it, but thank God we finally start to pour something into this glass, the large glass of climate protection. They used to say: A lot of coal for climate protection! - That doesn't fit anymore. It is really a big, important signal to help climate protection today a great deal further. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is part of a negotiation process to ensure that the limited resources are used as well as possible, and this is an example in which between the environment and the economy Thank God once again and stand – and none or –, as between economy and climate protection, neither or, but one and one. That is exactly what the intention in this important promotion is, that we generate demand, demand for climate investment – very important in the building sector – and, because it has been addressed, the comparison with the respective definitions of renovation in the countries. Indeed, there are already very good building renovation programmes, which can be supplemented by these programmes, as well as individual federal states have provided additional resources for the heating exchange. Very briefly: The regional economy is thus significantly encouraged, and demand is generated. It has been mentioned that we also demand qualified jobs in this area – energy saving, climate protection, renovation, improvement of heating technology and building shells – in this area. generate. This is a major factor which I particularly appreciate on the novel that is being presented today. The figures are very remarkable. The 110 million euros that flow into domestic environmental promotion must be taken into account. The municipalities benefit from this, which benefits companies with very, very exciting, important technological details for power centres, for heat recovery. These are all steps that help us to get closer to the climate objectives of all levels. The refurbishment offensive, the heating exchange is a very basic building block for the transition to renewable energies. The climate-friendly heating systems and thermal building renovation measures are simply a core part of this overall programme, and energy contracting, which has not yet really been funded in detail, is an extremely important support. Energy contracting is a contribution to shifting risk or minimising risk and thus creating the possibility of rehabilitation measures. All in all, it is an extremely encouraging, important and forward-looking package that is being decided here today, and I look forward to the next steps. Mrs Minister, it is a good start to a great climate protection programme!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18684	Next speaker: Mr Andreas Kollross. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18708	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Values Advisors! I would like to suggest that we too, of course, very much welcome the fact that something is happening. I would particularly like to put on the screw in the area of low-income households. You have already noted in your remarks where there are even greater areas of problem. This is on the one hand where the question of cooperation with the federal states is concerned, where there is still a lot left open, and above all it is – and I believe that this is very, very important – the question of the definition of what a weak household is: Is it now the minimum pensioner, or is it, for example, the four-member family with a household income of 2 000 euros? – I believe that it will take a very quick definition if you really want this law to meet the right people at the end of the day. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, what has not been taken into account in this law is the 16 500 households that do not currently have a fixed heating system. They are currently completely excluded from this support, because there is currently only a promotion in the exchange area. I therefore believe that if you think about making changes, you might also need to look at this area much more closely. But what we see, taking these many points into account, above all, and what becomes clear very quickly, is that climate and energy policy is not just a technical question, but, above all, a social question. So, of course, the question of energy poverty is a very essential one. Unfortunately, this will also take place in Austria. In our Republic, we have around 110 000 households affected by this issue, and an essential factor in combating energy poverty is energy efficiency. That is why this law is a first important step, but here too. To fight effectively requires the necessary security of meeting. What it also needs – that is what all the experts say – and you have also mentioned it very briefly: Above all, a uniform and general definition is also needed very soon: What is energy poverty? – That is not what it needs, and we should implement it as soon as possible. Finally, as my speaking time has almost expired, I would like to say something about the amendment that has just been distributed: I think it is very good that you, the Greens, whoever, have recognized that the Ministry of Finance is not necessarily the most competent person, and that therefore one takes away the payment of these funds from Blümel and gives them to the Austrian Economic Service Society. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that this is a very, very essential point so that the implementation of this law really works. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18762	Now Mrs Bundesminister Geessler has spoken again. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18784	Thank you very much for the contentious debate. I would like to comment on four points. Very short to the AWS: The AWS simply has a lot of experience with credit guarantees, so it is also a logical step to do that where there is a lot of experience in the practical handling. The second is – to colleague Michi Bernhard –: I also said in my speech: This is a first step, and further action must be taken, and, of course, fiscal measures include a tax reform with CO2 pricing. That is what we agreed in the government programme, and the argument was very, very striking: because it also leads to measures like these simply expected to be much faster. Every investment in a green production process, every investment in a thermal renovation amortizes faster, and that is the nice thing about this tax reform, on this lever that we are developing together: that this also supports many, many other measures. So don't worry, we're working, but that's no reason to say now that we're only going to do the increase of the promotion after that, but we're going to do it now, as an economic engine, because now we need it too. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] A third point in the context of energy poverty and the definition: We have also made a new instrument in the reconception of the Energy Efficiency Act – perhaps in the first speech I did too little, namely to set up a fund that also has a view on the social hardships. We also need this definition for the Energy Efficiency Act and thus for the long-term security of programmes to combat energy poverty. So we're going to work on it, but I think we just have to look at it structurally, because it's actually a difficult one. On the cooperation with the federal states – which was also mentioned several times –: This is a very, very important task, especially in this area where the level of competence is spread across all levels. We have a national energy conference next week, where we will also discuss these issues, and we are working under high pressure on a restart for the so-called heat strategy. Perhaps it will succeed with new actors, with a new minister, since we will also be able to re-engage this process, because climate protection will only succeed if we move from communities to countries to the federal government, and we want to work with the heat strategy together with the federal states.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18835	The next item is Mrs Martina Diesner-Wais. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18859	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A success model will continue with the increase of funds in the Environmental Promotion Act, thereby generating two positive effects. On the one hand, we avoid and reduce greenhouse gas emissions and come a little closer to the objective of climate neutrality; on the other hand, of course, there are the positive economic effects, because each one lets the measures in its commercial operations take place on the spot. This will keep value added in the place, in the region, and jobs will be secured and further expanded. This novelle is an implementation within the framework of climate billions, and in concrete terms it contains liability for energy contracting projects amounting to EUR 50 million. This offers the possibility of minimising the risk of default, which will create incentives for investment in businesses. The increase in the environmental promotion of 20 million euros for biogenic heat supply is something particularly valuable and good, because it is about genuinely environmentally friendly solutions that are efficient and manageable and where value added in the region remains in place. As regards the renovation of our buildings, which will continue in 2021 and 2022 and will be increased by 650 million euros, this is really an incentive for many to do something. 250 million euros for the renovation of the buildings and 400 million euros for the exchange of oil boilers are important and useful. It has also often been mentioned that this time there is a social component: 100 million euros spent on those who might not otherwise be able to afford this, and which therefore also make a valuable contribution to the environment. By 2022, it will amount to up to 1 billion euros, which will be made available. What is also very valuable, these resources are complementary to those other environmental instruments which we have already decided to: One is the investment premium, the other is the investment law for municipalities. These are compatible and thus a good way to invest in the environment. In this sense, I am looking forward to the broad approval of this law and other things for a healthy environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18903	Next speaker: Mr Martin Litschauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18924	Madam President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV and via live stream! The climate crisis has reached us and the glacier melt, the drought and the borch beetles are already showing us the effects of climate change. What does a crisis mean? – A crisis is a challenge for our society, for our behaviour and in this case for our energy system, which must be changed. This requires incentive, visions and incentives. As an energy consultant, I am often on the road in the forest district, and it always hits me very hard when I see smoke rising from the chimneys of the houses on summer days because hot water is produced in the old heating plants. However, we do not only need to change the fuels in our heating systems, we also need to change the efficiency of our heating systems, and that is where we are called for. Besides solar use, biomass also plays a very important role. Recently, an entrepreneur in the Waldviertel told me that the Hackschnitzel now have such low value that not even the transhipment of the Hackschnitzel is calculated. That's when I'm wondering: Why is so much oil still being imported for heating and at the same time our forests are being stretched down by the birch beetle? The Environmental Promotion Act can now trigger a turbo for the energy transition. This particular turbo is now necessary so that we can exchange up to 90 000 fossil heating plants and, so to speak, make energy more efficient. Never before has so much money been spent on heating exchange and thermal renovation, and our installations will also demand that we have enough skilled workers. But I think that's good, because that's exactly what we need. All of this also creates value added in the region because we gain the resources from it, and we need this strengthening for the region too. Recently I saw in Waidhofen a straw insulation, an inflatation that has been certified, for which insulating material is made from straw, from natural materials in Austria. I think that this too is an essential contribution that can now be strengthened by means of thermal renovation. Finally, I would like to come to the energy contract for a short time. There is delivery and savings contracting, and, I think, this is very important because one of the big points is always the default of payment in the end customer, and this one can now, as it were, be intercepted with this new program in the UFG. Up to 5 million euros are available per project, and with a total volume of 50 million euros, we theoretically have a lever of over 1 billion euros. This is also very important for the reason that, in my opinion, energy contracting is not only available for industry and industry. We can also use this for the communities and in the final effect also for private individuals. It will be very exciting, because I think that if energy supply contracting is extended, in particular, it can also be an essential measure against energy poverty. That is exactly where we should continue to develop and use this programme. I am now inviting everyone to spread this programme so that, as mayor, they will not be allowed to apply for gas connections, but to indicate the construction of the new plants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18972	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. Before I come to the vote, I ask the political groups whether they want to interrupt a sitting or whether we can proceed immediately. – As no interruption is desired, I am going to be the same and the vote will be taken immediately. We shall vote on the draft law in 342 of the Supplements. Mr Hiezu has tabled an additional or amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Hammer, Mr Schmäler, Mr Colleagues, and an amendment tabled by the honourable Members. I will therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the proposed addition or amendment, which follow the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment concerning paragraph 1. Who is for this, I now ask him for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Members, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on paragraph 2. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on this part as it stands. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to this part of the draft law as it stands, in the form of the Government's draft, to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment concerning the recast of paragraph 3. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part as part of the Government's draft, taking account of the amendment tabled by Members Hammer, jewellery miners, colleagues and others. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also proceed to the vote on the amendment or amendment tabled by Members Hammer, jewelry miners, colleagues on points 4 to 10. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is also unanimously accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – The draft law is therefore adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives the consent in third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft law is therefore adopted unanimously at third reading. [[17:40:25]] 6. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (351 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the German Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Contracts of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Laws of the Law on the Laws 7. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 430/A by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Employment Contracts (362d.b.) 8. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 427/A(E) by Dr Dagmar Belakovich, colleagues on special care leave for workers with care obligations (363d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19102	This brings us to Agenda items 6 to 8, on which the debates will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. First speaker: Mrs Verena Nussbaum. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19129	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! The school year started almost three weeks ago and although the number of corona infections was still stable at the beginning of the summer, we are now faced with the challenge of curbing the spread again in autumn. We've been living with the virus for six months, we've learned a lot about it, and now it's about implementing these findings. The request for special care time submitted by the Federal Government, which is to be extended by February 2021 and that holidays and school-free days are now covered by it, is to be seen positively. From our point of view, however, four essential points are missing in this proposal. First: There is no legal claim to this special care period to date. We know that schools and kindergartens are closed from today to tomorrow, most of them you can only find out in the afternoon. However, the employer or the employer alone decides whether special care time can be used. I can tell you from my professional experience that there are more than enough businesses that say: There's no special care time with us, we don't want to. – The workers are downgraded with this request to beggars. It simply belongs to a legal claim. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second point is – and perhaps it is also related to the fact that employers say that we do not want to apply the special care period in our company – that although the replacement of wage costs should now be increased from 30 to 50 percent,: Why does it not become a general remuneration for the employer? Why can't you replace him with 100 percent? The third point concerns – and once again the government forgets that special care time is not only important for parents – the relatives of caregivers, who are in the care at this particular time in part faced with challenges they can hardly vote, because day or care facilities, such as dementia diseases, can also be closed. In the law, the claim is only regulated in the case where the 24-hour caregiver cannot arrive – again with the emphasis that there is no legal claim on it. The fourth point, which is also missing but which is very essential, concerns those who live in the common household with seriously ill families. People want protect their families from infection. But now you have to decide: Do I stay at home and take care of family members or do I continue to work? – That means there is an acute need for action. Mrs Minister, I should therefore like to make a motion for an amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[17:46]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19261	The amendment has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann August Wöinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19291	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We now come to a number of support measures, in turn for the population in Austria, with which we want to combat the consequences of this corona pandemic and support people as best as possible: The special care period, which I will address even more, and the increase of EUR 1 billion in the investment premium, which is very well accepted by our entrepreneurs. This is really a great measure, which will be particularly reflected in the field of employment, also in the regions. It is, I think, useful if investment is made to improve the job situation accordingly. In the next few points, the increase in the Family Hard Fund is still being dealt with by 40 million euros or by the Education Bonus. A few comments were made at the special care period: We introduced these in spring because the parents were faced with special challenges during this very difficult time and are still there. In spring the schools were closed because of the pandemic, had to be closed, and many parents were at home with home schooling, and they did very, very valuable work. That is why we have this special care period in addition to the care-free instruments. Some have also agreed with the companies that, so to speak, holiday or time balances will also be reduced so that we can also make additional time available here. If you look at the figures, this agreement has also worked between employees and employers in the Austrian companies: 25 000 working people have taken advantage of this special care period, so 30 000 children, people with disabilities and those in need of care could be cared for; two-thirds were women, one-third men; 57 per cent have taken up up to three weeks, 22 per cent two weeks and 21 per cent a week, most frequently used in Vienna, namely by nearly 1 000 companies, followed by Upper Austria with 850 companies and Lower Austria with around 530 economic enterprises. This means that this system has worked in principle. It will continue to work, even if we now take over 50 percent from the public sector, so to speak, and not just a third. We support our entrepreneurs who know exactly what their employees need in a challenging time. It worked, and it'll work again. I am very glad that we can take this decision today. Mrs. Federal Minister, thank you also for the preparation with your employees in the department. We do not hope that we will get into a situation like this once again, that we will have to lock something up, that is not what we want. We want to prevent a second lockdown, and we want the schools to stay open, but the parents can, when the number of influenzaes increases again, get very quickly into the situation that they need time for the children at home, therefore this legal regulation by the end of February: a good solution in the sense of our families with children. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19328	Next speaker: Mr Peter Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19352	Madam President. Minister! We are talking today in this block about the victims of the government in the labour market and how we are talking about It is possible to prevent the most from happening. There are now a variety of topics and programs. Perhaps you should get back to the start again, and I would like to point out once again, because it is such an impressive sentence and because we have discussed the subject in detail this morning: A judge has sent us an e-mail and in it he has carried out today's legislation of the morning. He wrote a sentence in it, you should just read it again. A judge in Austria: The restriction of fundamental and freedom rights is as massive as it has been in the Austrian legal system since the end of the National Socialist era and the occupation period. - Quote. That's what an Austrian judge says, just so we know what the starting point of the whole story is. This, I think, should hopefully be clear to everyone here in the house: that although we can wish for jobs, we will not be able to create them artificially. As long as the economy is almost plagued by these government measures as long as there is no planning certainty, no optimism, no courage, as long as the economy does not get underway, and with it mass unemployment, including short-time work, will continue to accompany us. We had a short period of rest in the summer and after the summer in the economy, and I have always said: To date, the Austrian economy would have survived and endured, but now you are turning the wheel back and forth, and I can't imagine how a private or industrial company is still going to create it. All the alert signs, both by the AMS and by the economic researchers, should actually be enough for the government to finally move to the normal state and to provide the economy and the workers with a basis again. I should like to point out once again: To date, the whole story costs us 50 billion euros, according to conservative estimates. There are also estimates that are far beyond that. That's just the question: Who of this government – it is only the women's ministers on the government bank – who of these ministers, including Federal Chancellors, will still be there when it comes to paying this bill? Then it will probably require a solidarity contribution from all Austrians. This should not be ignored in the entire discussion: All the measures we are discussing now, including in this block, are useful, help a little, but are basically piecework, and I say again: In my opinion – or in our opinion – it is high time to get into a certain planning capacity now, so that jobs are also secured, there are already too many broken away anyway. If that doesn't get any better immediately, then the prospects for after winter and spring for the Austrian labour market are disastrous. Please, government, please, Mrs Minister, make you busy, including with your colleagues: Get into normal condition! Planability, optimism, courage, otherwise it will be nothing with jobs! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19404	Next speaker: Mrs Barbara Neßler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19428	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! It's probably in no time has been given in recent decades when children and parents have been so happy about the school business as they did in May or now in autumn; Children and young people, because they met their friends again, and parents who, in addition to obligations such as home office, home schooling and childcare, had to do all of this. At the latest since yesterday at the beginning of autumn, it is a big topic, which can and will continue as in schools – and it will also affect childcare facilities. Of course, it was foreseeable that there will be no normal operation as before the Corona era, and it is foreseeable that not only children will be sent home, but that a quarantine, if it is necessary, will meet larger groups in classes or schools, although, of course, we all insist that we do not have to close the schools. We are only before the beginning of the challenges that will bring about the coming lower temperatures. There are many parents who rightly ask themselves how they will manage to care for the children again over a longer period of time at home. I would like to stress, when it comes to family and household, that women in particular come back to the handcushion, women do double and triple work. Many have already spent their holiday in spring or the care exemption almost or completely. We are not only extending the special care period now, but the state will also take over half of the costs instead of a third. That is why I do not understand the criticism of Mr Worm, who said that the economy is being tormented. Mr Wurm, it is a matter of burdening them, the cost will be borne by the State. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] The special care period is intended as an additional instrument for the existing employment opportunities, and indeed, it needs the consent of the employer or the employer, which of course we would have liked otherwise. I would therefore like to remind you that it is also important to protect several workers who are burdened by a permanent overload, because this would not, of course, help the employer or the employer or the employee or the employee. So it would lead to a lotless situation. I am very concerned that we do not leave the parents alone in this difficult situation and provide them with assistance with the extension of the special care period, so that they can get through the coming months as far as possible without any care gaps. The big challenge, autumn, is still ahead of us. Now it is up to the competent authorities to give parents comprehensive information on the possibilities of exemptions. Employers should also be informed, with an appeal to meet their employees as best as possible, for one thing is clear: This crisis will only make us good if we all take account of each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19482	Next speaker: Mr Christian Drobits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19504	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Well, I would have rather that this regulation of special care time or special care exemption is not contained in the employment contract law adaptation law, but in the holiday law or possibly also in the employee law or in the ABGB. AVRAG is the law, where many things come in, if you don't know where it's going. Regardless of that, it is important that there be an extension until the end of February. Our view on the part of my group was and is clear: Without legal claims, there is legal uncertainty. We also see in practice that, unfortunately, it is not the case that, as an employee or employee, you really have the opportunity to obtain this special care. It is also often so in systems-related professions that it is not possible, and if you know this, you must all the more insist that there is a legal claim that there is legal certainty and that employers and employees also know how to behave. Otherwise, in my opinion, we have an ambiguity: Although we have given the provisions of the remuneration compensation in the case of an exemption – in other words, in the case of an important reason according to employees' law and ABGB – the employer would be the payer if one wanted to see it this way, in the other case of the special care period of the employees. The Federal Chancellor meant that there must be one another. I believe that there must be legal clarity, which is why from our side there is clearly apologizing on the legal claim, which is also in the amendment proposal. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A second point that is important to me: Women are often affected by cancer and other diseases themselves, and these groups are then dependent on family members. I know from many cases, which have also been granted to me, that the families of risk groups and seriously ill persons suffer greatly because they cannot obtain this special care period or special care exemption. I don't think that this border, that the families don't fall below it, is a social-political one. I think I'm sure they'd deserve it. That is why there is also a clear message from my group: that the relatives of the severely ill must also be inside. They are not inside, so we are struggling to accept this bill. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I therefore also refer to the amendment tabled by my colleague, Mr Verena Nussbaum, and from my side I would like to take further account of these risk groups and the members of these risk groups. That would be an advantage and would be a progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19558	Next speaker: Mrs Martina Künsberg Sarre. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19579	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! At the beginning of the lockdown here in the high house, I said that our children depend on us to make good decisions for adults. When I look at the decisions of the last months, how and what was decided, I feel that there is a lot of space and space up. A good example is the extension of this special care period. The measure comes to the train when the school is fully or partially locked and the parents are back home with their children in home schooling. The measure shows very well, I think you're always just fighting the symptom, but never the cause. The reason is that in the world of this federal government there is only one black or white, an open school or a closed school, but in between nothing has been done or nothing has been incorporated into your ideas. What there may be is maximum confusion, maximum uncertainty by various traffic lights in different ministries, which also have different colors, an unclear test strategy – and no rigorous solutions at all in schools. In a situation of uncertainty, however, there is a need for measures by the Federal Government to provide security and clarity, but not the opposite. I would have expected you to be a family minister in the Council of Ministers and fight for wise measures to keep the schools open. [[Congratulation and bravoruf at the NEOS.]] In the economy, it is called cross-sectoral work: One can look beyond one's own field of ressort plate and give the other ideas or inputs and work for something other than one's own area. The economy is doing well and is now also called on to work in this crisis. In Austria, the motto remains, the main thing is that the system school does not change and remains the same. Even in such a mega crisis as we have now, everything is the same at school. They would have had nine weeks in the Federal Government during the summer to work out good ideas. Let's look at other countries: What are they doing? – The larger premises – which are now empty – are based on different school beginnings and different school students, so that transport is not so overburdened that they deal with ventilation concepts – that is at our schools, I think, even a foreign word – or try to hire additional teachers. All of this is not possible with us or was not thought of at all. In addition, teachers don't work because we've had a teacher's lack for years, which we always point out. There are still hiking classes, classes and teachers assembled in some subjects at several schools. If Mr Neßler says that we are putting everything to the fore that the school remains, I ask myself: What is that? What do you do to keep schools open? Schools are de facto now the same as we know them, and when the numbers rise, the alternative in your world is that the schools are closed. That's not an alternative, there's something in between. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Our all goal, I believe, should be that we keep kindergartens and schools open and seek good solutions, which above all also give direction to directors, teachers, elementary teachers, children and parents, give security and support them and do not do the opposite. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deckenbach]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We now know that children are not super-preachers and that there are no large clusters in schools either. I would really ask you to work for the fact that closed schools are not the alternative, because we know when schools are closed, that in addition to the loss of education, in addition to the higher education sheath, there will also be the social learning that remains on the track, or mental and physical consequences. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Salzmann]] – So please work to ensure that there is anything and that the alternative is not closed schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19667	Mr Rudolf Tashner spoke in favour of an actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19691	Madam President. High house! It is for the second time that I am putting off this actual correction. Ms. Künsberg Sarre spoke several times about a closed school. – In fact, the schools have never been closed, it has only been settled in the presence class. I ask that the fact be precisely presented here.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19750	Next speaker: Mrs Rebecca Kirchbaumer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19774	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home and here at our gallery! The schools were not closed, and that was now an actual correction by our teacher, Mr Taschner. [[Abg. Belakovich: It was no class, don't do anything!]] I think you can leave it that way. All the children who needed care were cared for. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The current special care period has been used by over 25 000 workers, 3 800 companies have so far applied for almost 4 400 applications. At this point, I would like to thank the Austrian employers who have taken advantage of this and have also managed to accept this offer together with their employees. There is no need for a legal claim on this because we are a society in which one can talk and a solution can be brought. Let's say it again. We do this together and talk to our employees, and the past has shown that it works so well. [[Abg. Singer:... legal claim!]] In my view, bringing in a constant twilight between employers and employees is both unscrupulous and not too targeting for a working working world. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Interesting for me is the demand of the FPÖ. On the one hand, you are excited that the measures to combat the pandemic are not at all available or that there is an exaggeration or panic. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the case, the figures worldwide speak a completely different language! [[Abg. Singer: Where did you get these, the numbers?]] I can only conclude from this that you want a mandatory special care holiday. So this zigzag course is very incomprehensible to me. At SPÖ I can understand, of course, from its point of view, from the trade union point of view, that you want to have this, but at the time of the pandemic this is absolutely wrong in place. Entrepreneurs bear responsibility for their employees and create jobs in Austria and want to continue to receive them. Not only the short-time work, but also this model of voluntary special care time has proved successful, and that is why we will now also decide on this extension by the end of February 2021 – which is correct and important. I would like to thank our Federal Minister Christine Aschbacher for the good cooperation with her cabinet at this point. I think we're right there. Finally, I would like to say: All existences in Austria are threatened by the workers and those of the employers. It is very important that we endure and deal with this crisis together. Stay healthy!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19853	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. Is there any point in coming right to the vote? - No, I don't. We shall therefore proceed to the votes I shall take separately from each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Draft federal law, which amends the labour contract law adaptation law, in 351 of the Supplements. Mr Muchich, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the part of the amendment concerned and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Member of the Muchich, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment concerning paragraph 1. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. The draft law was adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 362 of the supplements. Whoever is in favour of taking note of this report, I would ask for a sign. – The report has been taken note of by a majority. Agenda item 8: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 363 of the supplements. Who is for this consideration? – The report has been taken note of by a majority. [[18:13:21]] 9. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (352 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977 (364 d.a.) 10. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 547/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on short-time work for all employees in Austria (365 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19969	We now come to points 9 and 10 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First speaker: Mr Markus Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19996	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I refer to Agenda item 9. This is about the introduction of an educational bonus for people who are unemployed, for training that lasts longer than four months. It is about 4 euros a day, i.e. 120 euros a month for these people. We will agree with this measure, but of course there are some points in which we believe there is a need for improvement, which is why we have tabled an amendment which I will explain in the main guidelines. Our first criticism is against the deadline. All those with 1. September a training which lasts longer than four months has begun, nothing gets done. We find that unfair. I believe that these people too have the right to this 120 euros per month, and that is why we have written in our amendment that this is from 1. It is also intended to apply to ongoing training courses in October. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A second theme that has been very busy with us and on which we have also received many captions: I believe that when people declare themselves willing to do such an education – and there are also people who are in difficult situations, i.e. pay contributions – then we should give them an incentive to do the training, and that is why our proposal is that these 4 euros are not available. I hope we get an agreement there. That would be a great help to all those who are in a difficult situation from home. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As a covid measure, there was also this 450 euros one-time payment for unemployed people, who were very arbitrary. There you have taken a very arbitrary day of consideration. I think it would be fair and correct to have been there for the period considered the 15. ==References====External links== We are also making this request. I think the most important thing is – I also telephoned with a person concerned – that these 450 euros are not available either. People out there don't have it easy right now. These 450 euros would have been a huge story for the person concerned. He could finally have supported his children by his own power. He was looking forward to it and then he was greatly disappointed when he saw it at the end of the month: It's not again. Although this great announcement policy of the Federal Government is here, nothing has happened to him. Mrs Minister, you have moved the reduction of unemployment benefit to the level of emergency aid to luck by the end of the year. We believe that the crisis is far from over, so there is a need for a significant extension. That is why we are in favour of extending this deadline until the end of next year or the middle of next year. Another basic word on the labour market: It's nice to announce that there will be foundations. We are now hearing almost daily horror reports about how many people are losing their jobs. Today, among other things, there are 600 affected at Casinos Austria. The Bonmot on the edge: The boss has a new job, which is better taught than the old one, gets another 1.6 million euros of work. That's what I'm asking myself: Where is the morale in this story? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Minister, what is the Federal Government doing? – I can only tell it from Steyr: At the other MAN locations affected by closure or degradation, there is support from the government – we in Steyr hear nothing! You say you spend so much money on work foundations anyway. Mrs. Minister, make yourself smart! We are a region dealing with crises. We have work foundations. Steyr was the starting point of the largest work foundation in Austria. The industry is the engine of the Republic. At that time, after the crisis in 2008/2009, we saw that Austria had better come out of this crisis because there is industry in Austria. However, industry needs industrial policy, and it is too little to simply watch one farm shut down after another. Where this development leads, you can see in America. These former automobile cities in America are dead cities. If you want to have this in Austria, we will continue and do nothing; if we want something else, we need an industrial policy in that country! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[18:18]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e20144	The amendment was presented in the main guidelines, was also distributed to all Members and is therefore under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Lukas Brandweiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e20173	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners at home in front of the screens! The consequences of the pandemic, of course, also affect the labour market with full weight, and I am therefore glad that the Federal Government has acted quickly and already put in place many measures. That is why we get through the crisis better than many other countries. Starting from the short-time work and the fixed-cost grant up to the investment premium of 7 percent and 14 percent, we support companies so that as many employees as possible remain in employment. At present, about 295,000 people are in short work. There are 430 000 invoices received, 97 percent of which are already processed and 4.7 billion euros are paid out. That's a very nice sum. At this point I would also like to extend a great deal of thanks to the employees in the labour market service. I myself was at the service station in Zwettl and I thanked myself for the work done by the staff in recent weeks and months, and I am also grateful to you, Mrs. Minister, for stopping the reduction of 150 jobs and also creating 350 new planning posts. This, of course, also helps our employees in the AMS. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, we want to support people seeking work in this difficult time. As has already been mentioned a few times, we have decided on the 450 euro one-off payment, which has now been paid out in September. Because some believe it's nothing, I say: We have thus directly supported over 400 000 people. Of course, families are particularly affected by unemployment, and we have also implemented many things, such as the Family Hard Fund, from which 55 million euros have already been paid. The total amount of 50 000 positive applications will relieve families of an average of EUR 1,200, while the children's bonus of EUR 360 per child will also be paid in September. I think that can be seen. In the long term, however, it must be our goal to bring as many people back into employment as possible. I've been on the road a lot in my constituency in the last few weeks, of course with the necessary distance, but it's important for me to know at this time what people think outside, what they're doing and where they're pushing the shoe. I have talked to many entrepreneurs, but also to employees who have asked me: Luke, where are the many unemployed we hear about now? We have been looking for employees for weeks and find none! [[Abg. Lord:... unemployed...!]] On the one hand, we have many unemployed and on the other hand huge numbers of businesses looking for people – professionals. That's where we have to go! We must support those seeking work, and that is what is happening now. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is important to our Federal Government, and a work foundation of 700 million euros is planned. This is the largest continuing training project in the Second Republic! There is already a subsidy to unemployment benefit of 2 euros per day for continuing training in the framework of the AMS training courses. We now want to increase this incentive and make it more attractive and add an additional 4 euros per day to the re- and re-training measures of four months. Together, the amount is 180 euros per month. This increases the average income by 19 percent and this can be seen. Why four months from the age of four? – We want to motivate job seekers to qualify in professions in which the labour market also urgently needs skilled workers. This, of course, takes its time and therefore we want to ensure the livelihood of the job-seekers. The educational bonus is thus the first step within the framework of the work foundation and another tool in the suitcase to bring as many people into employment as possible. This must be our goal in labour market policy – and that is it. It would be wrong to say that we simply increase unemployment benefit and motivate people to stay at home. Our principle remains: Whoever goes to work can't be stupid. But I also say quite clearly: We must support and promote those who want to work!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e20222	Next speaker: Mr Philipp Schrangl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e20243	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Madam President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In front of us is a federal law to amend the unemployment insurance law, and we are pleased that the government parties are again implementing a proposal that the FPÖ has already put in place with Dagmar Belakovich, namely an increase in unemployment benefit with one, as I think, quite useful measure: in the form of an educational bonus. Unfortunately, the devil is in the detail again. Mr Vogl has already told us about this and we will therefore also give his amendment our approval. The Federal Government forgets those who were already interested in education and perhaps had already adopted such an educational measure in September. Among them are many Austrian youths – an area in which education measures are known to rise already in September – but also various institutions in the care sector have already begun in September, and you have also forgotten about them. I would like to talk about another important issue: Mrs Bundesminister, sleeping You do not have this situation, especially in my home country Upper Austria! 2 300 employees in Steyr, highly qualified employees of a research department – you may not only think of today, think of tomorrow, we need these highly technological companies, because only with them can the economy survive and be brought well through the next few years! –, 600 jobs at FACC, 60 jobs at BWT in Mondsee: Unfortunately, I have not heard anything about how you want to get under the arms of the companies concerned, so that they say: We keep our location in Austria. A second request, tabled by Mr Loacker, addresses something very important, namely support for short-term work. Yes, we know the short work is a support for companies. However, I also find those workers who cannot go into short-time work, because the employer, a German medium-sized worker, in contrast to, for example, an American chain, no branch office or no establishment in Austria, has earned the right to short-time work without being terminated, because they pay wage tax and social security in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e20276	Next speaker: Mr Markus Koza. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e20298	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Investment in education, skills and vocational reorientation, in future jobs in green technologies and services, climate protection, care, health and health social services, in digital professions, are currently the command of the hour to give those people who have lost work and income again prospects for a better future and a good work with a corresponding income. One thing the crisis has also shown is that the economy is facing massive structural problems, in particular with regard to the challenges of climate protection, digitisation and the strengthening of social cohesion. We know from national and international experience that education measures in particular will be sustainable and provide a stable job and income perspective if they last longer, are more intensive and there is time to qualify those affected. That is why this training bonus, this educational bonus, is so important for the AMS’s long-term education measures, which are now gladly increased from 60 to 180 euros per month. On the one hand, it provides an incentive for those affected to have the opportunity to use a corresponding education measure due to this higher income replacement and, on the other hand, to improve the skills of sustainable, good jobs. In particular, those who come from low-paid jobs will benefit from a correspondingly low unemployment benefit, but above all also women who may have been part-time employed before and who receive a lower unemployment benefit due to wage discrimination, which continues to exist in the labour market. That is why this measure is good, right, important and absolutely sensible. Today, however, not only brings the increase in the educational bonus, but – it has already been mentioned – also the system whereby emergency aid is increased to unemployment benefit has been extended until December. This is also a very important measure, because we know that, in particular, long-term unemployed people – and emergency workers – are people who are unemployed for a long time – are particularly vulnerable to poverty and that the increase of around 9 percent brings a strengthening of income and is just as correct and important as the educational bonus. Because we are at risk of poverty, ladies and gentlemen: You have to be able to live from work, it is said, and only right from full-time work. The social partners agreed several years ago that the minimum collective wage should rise to EUR 1,500. 1 500 euros are actually already obsolete, in reality it already takes at least 1 700 euros, but if I take away the media today that the country of Upper Austria has to do with contact trackers – that is, people who are supposed to fulfil the urgently needed job of exploring people from corona infected – for a monthly sum of 1 100 euros gross – that is an hourly wage of 6.35 euros gross, I simply wonder how this is possible. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] To remember: The poverty risk threshold in Austria is currently around EUR 1 286 per month, and even if that is the 13th and 14th. If the monthly salary is taken into account for this EUR 1 100, gross income is still below the poverty risk threshold. This is simply unreasonable and is not at all intended for a public authority. For comparison: Vienna pays for contact trackers over 1 800 euros gross. That, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, it should also be possible for the country of Upper Austria. That is why my urgent call to Upper Austria is from this point of view: Make sure fair wages are paid! You owe it to the future contact trackers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e20354	Next speaker: Mr Gerald Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e20375	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Of course, you can always put yourself on a formal legal position and then you are formally right, for example, when you say: An Austrian worker with residence and place of work in Austria, whose employer is in Germany and who has no place of business in Austria, cannot go into short-time work. As I said, Formal is the right thing, but there are a large number of people – that would be underestimated – who work in Austria and pay here their taxes and social security contributions, whose German employers went into short work – of course with social partners’ agreement – and now cannot go into short work with their Austrian employees. We can, as Mrs Minister and the Ministry do, put themselves on the formal stand and say: no facility in Austria, therefore no short work! But if you do this with the political confession: We are equally valued for all jobs and we do not leave anyone behind in this crisis!, compared, the formal position does not fit into the political announcement – therefore my request to work in Austria for such workers who live in Austria and pay here their taxes and social security contributions, to enable short work as much as for everyone else. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e20406	Mrs Bundesminister Christine Aschbacher spoke. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e20427	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to speak on the many measures that we have taken today or which you have just decided to take, and I would like to thank you many times for your participation and support, because it is now about providing the people who are particularly affected by this crisis with measures so that we can really dispel this and really support the people. We are concerned with securing jobs and doing everything we can to get people seeking employment into employment, but we are also supporting families with their children, grandparents and so on in this challenging time that we have had and will have in the past months and even in autumn and winter. At the same time, however, it is also about supporting young people and their work under the limit of commitment, so that it is possible, for example, to get along well in student life. Accordingly, I am pleased that we as the Federal Government, but also today, together with you, are implementing these important measures. First of all, the working conditions and also people who are now looking for work, who are involved: In doing so, we support the people with the Corona Labor Foundation and in the course of it with the educational bonus. This corona work foundation will be possible from October onwards, and it is about continuing to qualify people and to re-train or continue in that direction in which the future industries are looking for people. For example, more than 20,000 new workers are needed in the field of digitalisation, and in the care and health sector, in the future, more than 100 000 people needed, or also in the field of renewable energy, we are looking for 60 000 skilled workers in the field of photovoltaics alone. We invest in people with up to 700 million euros in additional funds at the AMS and can further develop up to 100 000 people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Because you asked me, when will there be this corona work foundation? She'll be there from October. Second point: You have asked me whether the social partners and the coalition partners are at all involved. I can only say: Of course! For example, the social partners through the Board of Directors are directly involved in the AMS, and of course our coalition partner is also involved, with which we exchange at various meetings and on various topics, so that we can help as many people as possible and unite the best of both worlds. I would also like to mention that in the course of the Corona Work Foundation, for example, we have placed a special emphasis on the target group of women – not only on women, but especially on mothers, on re-primary women, for whom there are already programmes that are being expanded – also in terms of compatibility. This brings me to the next point, namely, the special care period. Just before that, have You decide – or not in part – and I thank you for it because it is a model that has been known and applied since spring. In the middle of March to the end of May alone, more than 30,000 children could be cared for during the special care period. We also saw that there is a co-operation between entrepreneurs and employees, because in these challenging times we must bring everything together. It is seen – also in a flexible way of application, from single days or half-days up to three weeks – that this special care period can be used again. As a mother of three children, I am also pleased that the fathers are involved in it with more than a third. I know. We still have potential up, but when we look at the other family policy instruments, we are in the special care period compared to otherwise in a high father participation. As a result, I am confident that we will come through autumn and winter as best we can with the special care time, which is once again possible and to which we have increased our grant from one third to half from the federal side, if it comes to partial group, class or, of course, what we want to avoid, school closures. We're prepared, and that's important. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] I would also like to say one more thing because you mentioned that we are not prepared: Mr. Fäsmann and I and many in the Federal Government have prepared us very intensively for the various areas and target groups, and this is also about speeding up testing together with the federal states. [[New call for tender Belakovich]] I understand, I also have a school kid at home: There is, of course, uncertainty on the one hand, on the other hand, we do everything we need to close the schools only as short, as punctually and as regionally as possible or as single classes, if necessary. This special care period applies equally when individual group or class closures occur. It's important that we're prepared. Even in the case that your own children are sick and the care exemption has been exhausted, there is the possibility that you can use this care exemption again. For example, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bernhard: We have worked very intensively on this in recent weeks and months. I would also like to thank all the employees in my house. We have developed, increased and implemented a lot – including IT, for example, an online application is possible – and I am glad if you agree today that we will be able to increase the income loss suffered by the affected families as a result of the corona pandemic by deciding today to increase from 60 million to 100 million euros and thus support other families. We have already been able to support over 50,000 families, with an average sum of about EUR 1,200. However, I would also like to address the third area, namely support for our young people who receive family support and are in employment. As Minister of Labour, Family and Youth, it is important to me that we can now implement the jointly decided and in the government programme, namely with the increase in the commitment limit from 10 000 to 15 000 euros, because if a student works, he earns an average of 857 euros per month. We want to support that. It is about the one thing that you can do well for your life as a student, but on the other hand you can also gain experience in the professional world, so that you can get even better prepared for the labour market. As a result, I am very happy and thank you many times for your cooperation. We are always open to ideas and proposals and try to further develop them. I ask everyone that we do everything we can to do and stick to the measures so that we can work together to reduce the virus so that we can get through the autumn and winter as best we can in all areas of our lives in a new normal. Even if everything is not yet good, it will be better and good again, and we give everything for it with united powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e20514	Next speaker: Mr Johann Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e20539	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There have already been a number of decisions taken by a large majority across all parties today – thank you very much! It was very important to give the people of the country prospects in order to be able to achieve sound economic performance even in these extraordinary times. I'm sketching this year and I'm gonna make it happen to Revue: We have gone with a government formation this year. Of course, there have already been fixed programs for this year, but everything was different. The government had no stage of intervention, it had no deadline, because from March there was a completely new situation and the world changed dramatically. Since then, we have experienced, as committed as those who have come to their ministerial offices, to respond to this crisis, to all these requirements, to all these challenges that we meet, so that people in these days, in which the labour market has become a very difficult job, in which the environment, when it comes to care, education, about children, has changed completely new situations, has created perspectives and can also be sure of looking into these next days, weeks and months. A major contribution has also been made to the point that is now being discussed and which is also pleased with broad support, namely the increase in unemployment benefit, in order to give perspectives to people who are in unemployment if they are interested in getting to know new working worlds, to give them the opportunity to take a course of education, which is also supported, and then – as you have said, to be the future-fit woman of the Federal Minister. There are markets, there are sectors in which professional work will be asked for in the future. That is what we are going to do and we want to strengthen our support for this measure. We know: You are committed, you are flexible, we respond to the challenges of time with the answers that are necessary. I think that's how well we can really look with confidence at the next time. This is important, and I would like to thank you, Madam Minister, and your House for working well with all sectors, with the social partners, with the countries in this way. Thank you very much for this support.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e20578	Next speaker: Mr Alois Stöger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e20599	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Bundesminister, you said you were talking about all the issues. You are responsible for the workers, but unfortunately you have not said anything about the pause of the mask. I think it would be necessary for a Minister of Labour to also take this important step. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, They discussed the issue of special care time. This is good, but I would like to point out that, if workers have care obligations, they also have a right to have the necessary time off. The small difference is: That's what the businessman has to pay out of his own pocket. In this respect, it would have been good if one had made this special care time with a law, with a legal claim and at the same time paid to the employers who allowed it to do so to 100 percent. This would have been a real relief for the persons concerned. I would like to point out that the measure to increase unemployment benefits is a step in the right direction, but from my point of view it is a too small step. Why? – We need to increase the net replacement rate in the unemployment sector to 70 percent. People will need that in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, since August Woeinger hears: I've already asked him to think about whether it's good what you're doing. It has been referred to twice as follows: In September the trainings for the nursing staff begin. We want nurses to start training for them to be re-trained. These nurses, who have already started training, do not receive this benefit because we say: only from 1. October. If you agree with our request, dear friends in the ÖVP, then the problem is solved, and I believe that even those who start in September have deserved this measure. Finally, I would like to point out two things that we support. That is what Mr Loacker's request is because he is absolutely right: If we have a European perspective, we must also allow access to short-time work to those entrepreneurs who are established abroad but who pay taxes in Austria, pay social security contributions in Austria, under the same conditions. To Mr Koza – and I say so very consciously –: If the country of Upper Austria conducts wage and social dumping, I expect the competent ministers to make an appropriate announcement. We have committed ourselves to the fact that there should not be a minimum wage below EUR 1,500 in Austria, and this is true of the Upper Austria country, and that is crucial for me. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e20660	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. I ask the clubs if we can come to the vote right now. - That's the case. Then I'll go like that. We shall come to the votes I shall take separately from each of the Committee's requests. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Draft Federal Act amending the Unemployment Insurance Act in 352 of the Supplements. There is a supplementary or amendment tabled by Mrs Muchich, colleagues. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. Members of the Muchich, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an additional or amendment to paragraph 1 concerning the insertion of new paragraphs and the resulting renumbering of paragraph 2. If you agree to this amendment, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as it stands. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. I come to the third reading. Admission in third reading? The draft law was adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 10: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 365 of the supplements. Whoever is for the notice, I ask him for a sign of approval. – The report has been taken note of by a majority. [[18:50:27]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth on the Government Template (353 e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Family Allowance Act 1967 (366, e.g.) 12. Point Report and request of the Committee on Family and Youth on the draft federal law approving the justification of pre-taxes by the Federal Minister for Digitalisation and Economic Location and amending a Federal Law on a COVID-19 Investment Premium for Enterprises (InvPrG) (367 d.b.) 13. Point Report and request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth on the draft federal law amending the Childcare Act (368 d.a.) 14. Point Report by the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth on Amendment No 600/A(E) by Mr Edith Mühlberghuber, colleagues on the doubling of family aid in months with corona-related school closure (369 d.e.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e20786	We now come to points 11 to 14 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Member of the European Parliament Edith Mühlberghuberis the first speaker. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e20816	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear Seers! We will agree with the government template, which amends the family compensation law. It concerns the increase in funding for the Corona Family Hard Fund from EUR 60 million to EUR 100 million. We will also support the increase in student earnings from 10 000 to 15 000 euros from the calendar year 2020. It is precisely this point, the increase in the amount of earnings, that is to say, a long-standing demand from us. We have already submitted an application for this in 2017. Of course, we are very happy to support this. Our request concerning the doubling of family aid in the months with corona-related school closures, which we introduced in May and July, was correct and important. This request calls for family allowances for children up to 14 years of age. The year of life is doubled for those months in which care facilities such as schools, kindergartens, horte, were closed due to corona-related conditions. In the corona exception situation during the lockdown, it has worked very well in the families, because the parents are quite self-evident and have taken on double to triple loads. This was from Homeoffice. child care to support home schooling. Life with children is beautiful, but still many parents have gone through time during the lockdown to the limits of the feasible. This request was intended to provide financial support for parents during the period of closure of schools and childcare facilities, and especially for families with little income, this financial support would have been very necessary and urgent. The justification of the government parties for the rejection of the committee on Monday was really ridiculous. The Greens said that the schools and care facilities were not comprehensively closed, and therefore this request would not be useful. The reason for the rejection by the ÖVP was not really funny, it said: The children's bonus of 360 euros will benefit all family benefits. This is simply not true, because parents whose children were 18 years old in September do not receive the grant, Mrs. Federal Minister, although they received the family allowance during the lockdown period. And that is simply unfair and unjust! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If the ÖVP already thinks and decides that it is for all family aid beneficiaries, then pay this grant for everyone, because by this injustice many families are now looking through their fingers. Mrs Bundesminister, rethinking Once again! Make an overpayment because you really have annoyed a lot of families!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e20871	Next speaker: Mr Norbert Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e20895	Madam President. Estimated ministers! High house! I would like to start by thanking all the family spokesmen of the opposition and coalition groups, all the club staff and also the representatives of the family committee. I would simply like to thank the fact that it was possible to convene this committee in the short term, so that we could take into account the urgency of some of the items on the agenda and deal with them accordingly. I would like to thank all of you for this. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Family Hard Fund – it has already been mentioned – is a success model after initial difficulties, but these are easy to understand by the flood of applications. 50 000 applicants have already received their money, an average of EUR 1,200 per family has been paid – the Minister has said it. I believe that this is a value that is absolutely significant and that it also helps families substantially. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] At present, 25 000 applications are still incomplete, as data must be requested, so that we can also get out in these cases, which, of course, also means immense work. 15 000 applications have so far been negatively decided, simply because the aid requirement had not been met. Nevertheless, various requests still come in at various intervals, and that is why we have also decided – Mrs Minister, I would also like to thank you – that we will increase this hardness fund by an additional EUR 40 million to EUR 100 million. With this, I think, we have a good craft to relieve families accordingly. Another important point on the Committee's agenda was the commitment limit for students, which we will raise from 10 000 to 15 000 euros. My colleague Claudia Pakpolmnoch will report in detail on this. On the agenda we also had two §-27 requests. One thing was that we no longer want to ask back child care grants. It is true that for children born until 31.12.2009, there was a kind of family credit that was granted to the families. However, these funds had to be repaid. A person with low incomes, for example, was allowed to earn a maximum of 16 200 euros per year for the benefit of this family credit. 2015 and 2016 have been the last two years in which this law has yet to be implemented, and we have now said that for these two years, which will be finally reclaimed in 2020 and 2021, we will remove this claim. I believe it is important, especially in Corona times, that we delete these people with very low incomes, and that is what we have decided in committee. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The second §-27 application referred to the Investment Premium Act. This investment premium, ladies and gentlemen, is also a full success. More than 7 000 applications have already been processed, i.e. the first billion has actually been distributed to entrepreneurs, and this EUR 1 billion has triggered over EUR 10 billion of investment. I believe that this is really a point landing and that the Austrian economy is also extremely helpful. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We will be making a further billion available for the investment premium. As the issue was absolutely urgent, it was also discussed in the Family Committee. This has led to discussions, but I say very clearly to you: With these investments, we strengthen the economy, strengthen businesses, secure jobs, and this is ultimately the basis for a good family policy. That is why I also believe that this request was well withdrawn in our committee. Thank you for your approval if you give us these. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e20974	Mrs Rosa Ecker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e20996	Mr President. Dear Bureau! Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen here in the hall and at home! To increase the amount of trust for students is important and correct. The fact that there is no need for the grant of child care allowance granted years ago will be more than two thousand families, and they will be relieved because there is no cost for them. I would, however, particularly like to dedicate myself to the Family Hard Fund, which we have already increased for the second time. It was designed for 30 million euros, then increased to 60 million euros, and is now increased by 40 million euros to 100 million euros. Why? – Because much more families than accepted need help because much more families than the government believed have suffered loss of income. Families and single-parents report which Odyssey they have to go through with these applications to the Family Hard Fund. I have heard the following: April filed, but no money was received by the beginning of September; application submitted in April, submitted three times, but still not yet received notice; wait five months, for five weeks it is stated that the application would be positively completed, money not yet in the account; Get money, but don't know; and so on. There is a processing and disbursement shaft. The same is true of feedback, according to which more money was paid out than would have been obtained in the pre-calculation of the application. Mrs Minister, you have promised in committee that there will be no recoveries, and I hope that will be the case. Up to now, just over 50,000 families have received money from the Family Hard Fund, about EUR 1 250 per family. That sounds very good, but the families would have needed the money in the first weeks and not only after five months. This criticism, Mrs Minister, must please you. We already heard in June: Families receive 1 000 euros. – However, you did not receive the money until September, but it could have been paid out without any problems in July. It has also de facto become only 360 Euro per child, because the 100 Euro school start-up assistance is available every year and there has not been any additional this year. You know, Mrs. Minister, how gracious it is for the families outside who are affected, when you explain with a smile what the families don't get everything: 300 euros there, 100 euros there, please also from you personally to him frame of a photo shoot. The families did not owe this crisis. First came the lockdown and the government's action, now these people tremble around their workplace. They worry about whether they can pay the bills and fill the fridge and whether the school will not close again in the next few days or just take more care of how we have heard today. The families deserve real, honest help and appreciation and no personal profiling by the benevolent distribution of the taxes they have already paid and will still pay.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e21051	The next speaker is Mrs Petra Wimmer. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e21075	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Dear families! The frequent burden on families is stressed over and over again in these times, and rightly so. Especially at the beginning of school, parents and children are required to a particular extent. It is really not easy for families to agree on professional activity, child care and the corona measures. The increase in funding from the Family Hard Fund to EUR 100 million is a good step, as the financial challenges for families are accordingly high. Short work, unemployment, loss of income – all this has to be done by families. That's where they need any support they can get. [[Congratulations to representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, what we are missing is a general reform of the Family Hard Fund. Still, 25 000 applications have not been completed, 25 000 families are still waiting for financial support, 25 000 families are still looking at their account every day, whether the money has finally come; and that is exactly the 25 000 families who need every euro who are afraid of a delogging that does not know how to finance school matters for their children at the start of school. Many families are still completely excluded from the support: These are the single parents in Karenz, who do not receive any support from the fund at all; these are separate living parents whose children live in one parent – in which case the other parent is not entitled to claim – and also minor employees who have lost their job due to the corona crisis are in the rarest cases entitled to unemployment benefit and thus also to funds from the fund. That's why I don't get tired of stressing again and again: All these families need our support! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Because these families are just as important to us, we as SPÖ make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mrs. Family Minister! Every family in need needs our support, every family, every child is equally valuable – agree to the request and we end this injustice! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[19:07]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e21238	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and under negotiation. Mrs Barbara Neßler is now on the floor. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e21265	Mr President. Estimated ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! When people think about studying, they might think of interesting courses. Others may think of parties, of getting to know people, of a relatively uncomplicated life. But most people don't think about the shadows of a student's existence: How can I transfer the rent every month, buy the books I need? Do I come into the class? I'll come in. The internship I need? Or right now: Can I keep the side job? – These are concerns that accompany almost all students. The fairytale student or the fairytale student, who has or can continue to study uncomplicated life, who or they simply are no longer available, for all costs have gone up extremely high: the rents, the cost of living and so on. The study period is simply a time in which you have to turn every euro twice and triple. That's why it's important that we get students under the arms now. Nine years have taken us until we finally manage to make it possible for those students who have to work next to their studies who depend on them, and that is at least 65 percent to be able to achieve a higher limit of merit. So far, students have only been able to earn 10,000 euros a year, so that is 800 euros a month. In the stress you have when you have to get a student and work under a hat, you often don't think of this existing border, and then the bitter news from the Ministry of Finance comes that you have to repay the family aid – puh! – and that is usually not a small sum. I am very pleased that we are now taking the step of increasing this commitment limit from 10 000 to 15 000 euros, and that this 50 percent increase is possible retroactively for the 2020 calendar year. The whole is not only a relief for students, but also for other full-years who are in vocational training. The already mentioned increase in the Family Hard Fund by 40 million euros is also necessary. We know not only from various studies, such as hard families, who were not granted a luxury life before the Corona crisis, but also from the Corona and Economic Crisis. I have talked to many interested parties who are really on the verge of despair and rightly ask themselves: How's it going to go on? That is why the increase is as important as the provision of childcare allowance. It is good that we do not give up these repayments, because this would mean a new hardness for families who already have problems because they are financially worse. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, saving families will never be expected. We invest so that we do not have to live in a country where we have to send people – countless of them children – into poverty. The SPÖ will make an application with various measures in various areas on child poverty. I'd like to take the lead right now: We are working on these measures – but this is not happening from today to tomorrow. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Reimon.]] At one point, however, you can be sure: We have not yet won the fight against the corona virus and the fight against child poverty has only begun. We will use all possible means to reduce child poverty. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Children cannot choose which family they are born into, but we can shape in which society they will grow up in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e21325	The next speaker is Mr Michael Bernhard. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e21350	Mr President. Appreciate women ministers! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! I The debate on the Family Hardfall Fund has been followed here in plenary more often and has just begun with the criticism. I want to start the other way around today: I would like to thank you for the good cooperation that, where problems arise, there is also someone available from your team who solves these problems – thank you for that. [[We welcome the NEOS, as well as representatives of the ÖVP and Greens.]] - I'm getting nervous, but I'm happy about the applause. However, I would also like to address a number of issues because it was organizationally a very difficult exercise when the family hard work began. We know that when we look at this autumn and winter, this was probably the lighter exercise. Why do I say that? We have 1.4 million families in our country, and 5 percent of these families have recently sought support because they had income losses. We also know that there were significantly more families who have lost real wealth – and many will simply take this step to turn to the ministry and to request support, not want to go, but try to get through the autumn and winter themselves. I spoke to you in May and, I think, in June too, Mrs Minister, and I pointed out that it is a first step that we are getting a full balance of income loss for these three months – and that is the maximum framework for which we can make a request. But what is missing and what I asked for at that time is a concept that we need until autumn, concerns the families that do not come by their own means through autumn and winter – and that will not be so few who need more than three months of support, who are not with the World War I Heart Fund, who do not fall into any other situation – that there is a reasonable solution on the part of the Ministry of Family Affairs. This solution is still outstanding. It doesn't have to be called: full replacement of income loss!, it doesn't have to be called: for three months!, but it can be very targeted. There should be a possibility where people say: It just doesn't go out now, my livelihood has been pulled away from me under my feet, I need this support! We should have created this possibility, but you did not create it. Therefore, as NEOS, we would like to give you a small support here so that we can solve this for you today. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Why do we believe that such an institution, i.e. a Family Hardfall Fund 2.0, needs it? – Because we meet people every day who would need this support. At this point also a final feedback on the current situation: 50 000 of the 70 000 applications may have been processed, but they are still unprocessed from mid-April. It's often said there's no document. – No one can understand why five months after the request has been made: I need immediate support, where the government has said “costs what it wants” still no money on the account, no answer from the ministry or no yet. – That is completely incomprehensible! A second point on the current requests that still lie with you: Entrepreneurs or better said Self-employed people always receive only two thirds of the amount received by the self-employed, with the argument that one cannot verify the loss of income in the same way. They say that this can be demanded next year if it turns out that the income loss is really as high as the people indicate. Next year, however, it won't help the self-employed anymore. It cannot be said that in the emergency situation in which you say – or the Federal Chancellor –: “Taste it what it wants”!, says: Cost it what it wants, but only two thirds of what it is supposed to cost, and then please submit next year! – This is not how crisis management works. Please make sure that the self-employed are not treated unevenly compared to the self-employed. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[19:17]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e21490	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. Peter Haubner is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e21517	Mr President. Appreciate women ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Yes, as chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, I would like to thank you very much for allowing us to join the Committee on Family Affairs as a matter of urgency and to make our request for an increase in the investment premium. [[Abg. Light peace: But it shouldn't...!]] There was an extremely high demand, and it was known to have been covered by 1 billion euros. As Mr Sieber has already said, it was therefore necessary for us to release the second billion after this framework was exhausted. I believe that this is one of the best measures we have taken, because this first billion has already triggered 10.5 billion euros of investment in our country. I think that is very, very important, both for employment and for the growth of our economy. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We all know that we are faced not only with a health challenge, but also with a strong economic challenge, and that is why I stress that we in particular need from the economy those measures that strengthen our location – and I also emphasise: We are all employers and employees. I would also like to say that we have two main factors in this investment premium: One is investment that we can make, which is equipped with 7 percent support, and the second is investment specifically in digitization, ecologisation and health and life science, which is supported by 14 percent. It is particularly pleasing that these first billions were used up specifically by micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and only 9 percent by large companies. This measure therefore works exactly where we need it, namely in small and medium-sized enterprises. It ensures employment and thus also work in the regions which are thus particularly secure. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] So this measure can really be summarized as follows: A win-win situation for both entrepreneurs and employees and, of course, for the regions and thus for the families. – Thanks again for the support!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e21566	Mrs Federal Minister Dr Margarete Schramböck spoke on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e21590	Mr President. High house! Values Advisors! First of all, I would like to begin by thanking the Family Committee for being able to deal with this request, which was so urgent and so important, in the Family Committee – that is to say, all the participants, all members of the Family Committee, thank you very much for your support. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sir.]] On the investment premium: We have jointly set up the investment premium to set up economic impulses. Especially in this difficult time when the companies are suffering – and thus their employees – we need to give impulses to the hope that the Austrian companies are still strong. We must give them the opportunity to prefer investment. That's exactly what happened. It may have happened faster than we all thought that the companies implemented the investment plans they had. They have not delayed investment, they have preferred it, and that is exactly what makes sense and purpose of this premium, this support that we jointly provide. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The investment premium is also special: I was in Berlin last week at the Council of Ministers, where many ministers of the economy were present. Germany, for example, has no such investment premium. We have succeeded in setting an impulse. The German companies look jealously at Austria. We will also succeed in attracting investment. I have already had many discussions with companies working in other countries and also in Austria, and they will take this very clearly into account in their investment decision and therefore make investment in Austria rather than in other countries. I am also one of the important things – it has already been said – that it is a premium that applies to small and large companies. The micro-enterprises – these are those with less than ten employees – actually account for 62 percent of the applications, the medium-sized companies – these are those with 10 to 250 employees – at least 30 percent. and the rest is up to the larger companies with over 250 employees. However, we must also bear in mind that the medium-sized enterprises are small companies in international comparison, and thus we support the ecosystem of the Austrian economy. What is also an important point is digitization and ecologisation. I would like to mention the exact number and tell you that a quarter of digital investment is lost and a third of sustainable environmental investment. So we both managed to focus on both digitisation and sustainability. This represents a total of 55 percent, i.e. more than half of all investments. This is really important for investment to be made accordingly. Of course, this is very important to me, especially in the field of digitalization and also in the field of sustainability. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] This second billion is of the utmost importance, because the companies are of course asking: Can we continue to submit? Thankfully, we have designed this support, this premium, in such a way that anyone who meets the criteria, every company, by the end of February. That is why this second billion is very, very important. I ask you for your support and thank you to everyone who agrees that we support our Austrian businesses with this good measure, give them hope, give them courage, and thus ensure jobs accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e21654	Eva Maria Holzleitner is now speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e21675	Mr President. Women Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear sisters! First: Yes, we welcome the increase in student credit to 15 000 euros. But we say quite clearly: It needs a more comprehensive package. In any case, we will stay on top of it when it comes to paying back study fees from the summer semester 2020. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Genau!]] We'll definitely stick to it if it says: Free of charge for working students! A colleague from the ÖVP also said it in the Family Committee: Those who work are not supposed to be punished. In a further step, one must definitely look at why the social gap at Austrian universities is still so large and why so many students have to work in order to be able to afford the training at all. I should also like to make a very comprehensive motion for a resolution by Mrs Eva Maria Holzleitner, BSc, Petra Wimmer, Mag. Dr. Sonja Hammerschmid, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to explain in the broad outlines. We are clearly saying that we now need a package of measures against child poverty. Why? – Because 300,000 children were already affected or threatened by poverty before the crisis, i.e. every fifth child, and this, of course, has worsened even further during Corona. I really find it totally grotesk when FPÖ comes here during the current European hour, insanely affected whether the child poverty is in Austria, but – a short reduction – Black and Blue has reduced the minimum security for countless children in Austria. This was an extremely tighter measure, which has led to a further increase in the poverty of children in Austria, and this is extremely dramatic. Volkshilfe launched a survey among the families affected by poverty in June 2020. What happened? – An blatant deterioration in quality of life due to various strains – financial burdens, reconciliation, isolation, home schooling and co challenges. All these are facts that we must not only discuss, we must also provide quick solutions, because otherwise child poverty will become much more intense. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What does it need to do? – On the one hand, it needs more school psychologists and school psychologists, more child therapy places, because health well-being simply must not depend on the parent's stock exchange, whether it's mental or physical health, no more than education. It takes comprehensive funding lessons, free of charge, the whole day school, and now – don't move to the long bank anymore! Let's bring school in Austria to 2020, today accompanied by free tablets and the expansion of school social work! Including offers, it also needs to be, and it needs poor pedagogy in all kindergartens and schools with a focus on empowerment and participation for children and young people. In conclusion: Get up with the unemployment allowance! Get up with the family supplement! And: With the maintenance guarantee for children and young people! If we act quickly, we will allow the best opportunities for education and the future for all children and young people in Austria! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Neßler.]] [[19:29]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e21850	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, it is properly put in place, and it is also under negotiation. Hermann Weratschnig is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e21874	Mr President. Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! The investment premium has been running since September. Today, we are creating the basis for continuing this positive shift. We promote that new investments will be made in very difficult times. We do not promote climate-damaging investments, we do not promote the conversion of land, we do not support financial investments, we do not support cars with combustion engines, nor do we promote fossil energy producers. Ladies and gentlemen, this programme bears an ecological manuscript, which reflects very much the green participation of government. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] With the environmental promotions already decided today and the 2020 investment premium, we are moving the seven-mile boots towards achieving the climate objectives: 7 percent as a normal rate and 14 percent in the field of ecologisation, climate protection, digitisation and health care. Climate protection and the economy are no contradictions: The coalition has committed itself to this principle, the Federal Government has committed itself, and on this basis we are implementing climate change measures! And, yes, the money is coming, fast, unbureaucratic and efficient. It has already been reported: The number of applications shows that it is an absolute success story. A third of the applications were submitted to the eco-logisation sector, resulting in a grant of approximately 483 million euros. If you look at this, you realize that in combination with the environmental promotions of today, projects can be funded by up to 44 percent in the future. That's a boost, that's help for the companies and, above all, if you look at the data, you can see that – for those EPCs and small businesses that make up about 62 percent of those companies that have so far applied for. This is therefore an eco-responsible for smaller companies, for EPUs, to invest properly. At this point, I think, one must especially thank the entrepreneurs and, in order not to forget them, especially the employees. We all need them in order to achieve the climate objectives. That's what the boys who protest for the future expect from us. With eco-investment, we are committed to securing our livelihoods: That's what I'm inviting, that's my appeal!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e21922	Next, Mrs Gudrun Kugler will speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e21947	Mr President. Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a supplement to Mrs Wimmer, who asked what the whole of the open applications for the Family Hard Fund were. 25 000 applicants were asked to submit documents. This is hopefully in your sense, since you say that help should arrive where it is needed – a ministry must also check whether it really is, and that happens, because it needs to be Don't worry about it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the last days, the Austrian families have also arrived at 360 euros per child in addition to the annual school start-up fee. We have decided that because we want to support the families who are all affected by Corona, because we want to say: So you can start well in the autumn!, and because we want to honor the benefits of families, because family, and that has shown up in the Corona crisis, is system-relevant. The families have picked up the school closures, and – I remember – we have discussed this here before – recently, on 21 January. September, Minister of Women Susanne Raab held a press conference and said that domestic violence did not rise significantly during the lockdown. This too is a sign from which you can read that family works. We want to honour this with this 360 Euro. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] – The numbers, Mrs Colleague, are available, and I would like to send them to you by e-mail immediately afterwards. There were 360 euros per child to support families. What surprised me, however, is that both the NEOS and the Freedom Party voted against. Today, too, we are discussing a rejection, namely that of a request from the liberals, and the question of why the doubling of family aid for the months of school closure, as the liberals have demanded, is being rejected by us today. – In this respect, I would like to say quite clearly: The child bonus goes far beyond what the Freedom Party is demanding here. If one calculates the doubling of the family allowance for those under 14 years old for the period of school closure, it is up to a maximum of 260 euros; we have given 360 euros. That means: There was more in cash and for significantly more children, because the FPÖ has said that this applies only to children up to 14. In the request of the FPÖ it is said that the Catholic family association also demands this. Yes, but the Catholic family association has already welcomed the children's bonus in June, with the following words [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mühlberghuber]] “With this special payment, many families are unbureaucratically helped”, and: “It is an important and necessary appreciation of the natural and incredible services of families”. And instead of honouring that, we hear that. [[New call of the abg. Mühlberghuber.]] – That’s what the Catholic family association said you didn’t say. Instead of honoring what the Federal Government does for the families, we hear from the liberals very strange sentences. For example, it is said by Mrs Mühlberghuber and Mr Rosa Ecker that people should live by the promises of the Federal Government alone. – These 360 euros – I think you can understand that yourself – are not promises, but they are in the account. Then the child bonus is said to be unfair and uninformed, and Mrs. Ecker says that the child bonus must benefit all families. – We give the child bonus to all those who receive child support! They said he'd only pay for children up to 14 – but the children's allowance would have significantly more children. In another press release by Mrs Mühlberghuber, we hear something quite different, namely that the children's bonus would be distributed in accordance with the principle of foundry, because everyone gets it, whether they need it or not. – But that’s exactly what you asked for – but only for under 14 years of age! Dear FPÖ, even for you the basic requirements of logic in parliamentary work apply! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Pakolm.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mühlberghuber.]] So it is not the child bonus, it is your political work in this matter, and a re-reflection actually does not do anything. As a Parliament, I think we are far enough to judge individually whether they are good or bad, whether they are good for families or not, and not easy to say: That's from the others and we're against it! The child bonus is not a repayment, but it is a advance payment, because the crisis is unfortunately not over. With the child bonus we wish the families all the best for this autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e22047	Mag.a Andrea Kuntzl is now speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e22071	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The increase in family allowances is a very important step for students. We wanted to do this for years, but now, although in principle, it is always the right time to do so, so to speak, a little at the wrong time. It is good and right that we do it now, but what I mean by “at the wrong time” is that the students have the problem that you have now broken out the jobs in the crisis. That is to say, it is basically right, only the students have another problem, namely that they are struggling at the moment to earn something at all because the classic student jobs are simply broken away in the gastronomy or in other service areas. That is, we must do something for this group, which is also heavily affected by the crisis – on the one hand, economically, and on the other hand, in terms of the terms of study, because the next semester will also be a difficult semester for students, but also for teachers at universities as a whole and a great challenge. This is a good and right step, but we also need to think more about supporting this group in its important training phase. This semester really applies: Last semester we have been very committed to paying the tuition fees, and this will again be a difficult semester with difficult conditions for students at the university – in the courses, distance learning and so on, the jobs break away. Let us let the students do the study fees at least for the coming semester! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That would be a small, but for this group that has to live on little money, an important contribution to support that we can make.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e22117	Mrs Mag.a Elisabeth Scheucher-Pichler. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e22141	Mr President. Estimated ministers! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It has now been discussed a lot, a lot of positive things have been said, some critical things too, but I do think it is beyond question that we decide on one of the biggest family packages, which is especially necessary at this difficult time, and I think we should recognise that too. We are putting forward a proposal to combat child poverty – and we are also putting an important emphasis on child poverty, ladies and gentlemen. I have only been able to pass the request briefly, it has just been distributed, but I have seen that there are many points in it that I and we, from the ÖVP Group – some of which are even in the government programme – are quite involved: Development of treatment sites, extension of school social work, for example, and much more. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] I don't have the time to deal with it all now. We will, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, also have the opportunity to discuss in the Family Committee, and I am looking forward to it. The fact is, we decide 40 million euros more for the Family Hard Fund. I would like to thank Mrs Bundesminister, for she has recognised the initial difficulties, has immediately expanded IT, has improved information, and the money is paid out, the money is with the families, and further requests are being made. Therefore: Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister, for all your initiatives for the families in Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The investment premium has been mentioned several times, Mrs Schramböck, which is very important for the small and medium-sized economy. I would like to add something: Especially in the small and medium-sized economy We find family-friendly jobs. We always see this in honors, in the awards of family-friendly businesses. Especially there one pays particular attention to making work and family compatible, and that is why it is very important. Much has already been said about the increase in the limit of commitment for students, and our youth spokesperson will also say a few things. I think it's important that students also have a practical relationship, we have the practical semester. I therefore believe that this is an important measure and that performance is ultimately also honoured. The children's bonus and the Corona Labor Foundation are also important measures for our families. We need about 100 000 jobs in the health sector, which will also bring many opportunities for women and will also improve the working situation in the families, as care services are always very much strained on the families. Mrs Federal Minister, I thank you for the good cooperation with Parliament, and I also thank you for always having an open ear when it comes to taking action, promoting, supporting families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e22201	Mrs Klasolm. — (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e22226	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I am mistakenly pleased that we are now implementing another point in the government programme, namely the significant increase in the ceiling for family support from EUR 10 000 to EUR 15 000 for all stakeholders, all of which have been retroactive from the current year 2020. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A year ago, a study colleague from Linz University called me and told me that she always worked alongside her computer science to finance the student home in Linz, to make the first own money and to be a little more independent of the parents and, of course, to collect professional practice next to the study. By the way, she has called, as many students do, worked a lot of full-time during the holidays and now accepted a job in a technical company. This is a huge opportunity for an approaching computer scientist. A few months later, the bitter news came from the Financial Office: Reimbursement of family aid. A large part of the money she has worked out through her new job is thus returning to the state. So she went to work for nothing and in the end had almost the same amount of money in the pocket with much less work. And like my college colleague, there are many students in Austria, because nine out of ten students work alongside her studies. Two weeks ago, she called me again and thanked me, because two weeks ago this decision was passed by the Council of Ministers, that we significantly increase the limit of our earnability to 15 000 euros, and today we also decide here in the plenary session of the National Council. This is how young policy goes: Students should not be punished if they are still working in addition to their studies, and therefore we increase the amount of commitment to relieve students with secondary jobs. You can now earn more without Fear that they will lose the family allowance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e22277	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. I see that the clubs do not wish to interrupt the session. Is that correct? - That's correct. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 11: Draft federal law amending the Family Compensation Act 1967, including title and entry into 353 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, also give the draft their consent to a sign of confirmation. – The draft was adopted unanimously at third reading. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Petra Wimmer, colleagues, on the conclusion with the obstacles to the Family Hard Fund – every child is worth the same thing. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Michael Bernhard, colleagues on Family Hardfall Fund 2.0. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This too is the minority, the request is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Eva Maria Holzleitner, colleagues, on'measures against child poverty'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 12: Draft federal law, which approves the justification of pre-taxes by the Federal Minister for Digitalisation and Economic Location and amends a federal law on a COVID-19 investment premium for companies, including title and receipt in 367 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft, to a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. The draft was also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 13: Draft federal law amending the Childcare Act, including title and entry into 368 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft, to a sign on this point. – This was unanimously adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 14: Proposal from the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth to take note of its report 369 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[19:48:26]] 15. Point Request by Mr Peter Haubner, Dr Elisabeth Götze, colleagues concerning a Federal Act amending the Vocational Training Act (832/A) 16. Point Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Michaela Steinacker, Mag. Agnes Sirkka Prammer, ladies and gentlemen, concerning a federal law with which the 2. Federal Law on Accompanying Measures to COVID-19 in Justice (2. COVID-19 Justice Act – 2. COVID-19-JuBG) is amended (831/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e22460	We shall now proceed to items 15 and 16 of the agenda on which the debates will be held under one. As regards application 832/A, the Economic, Industrial and Energy Committee had a period of time for reporting to 22. It was set up on September 2020. As regards the application 831/A, a period of time for reporting to the judicial committee was also extended until 22. It was set up on September 2020. There is no need for oral reporting within the meaning of § 44 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure. I call Mr Süleyman Zorba. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e22498	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! Today's change to the Vocational Training Act is about a measure that has proven itself and is intended to be continued in the crisis situation. Short work for apprentices has so far secured some 5,000 training places in the business environment and saves young people a lot of stress and anxiety. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== Before the summer, there were forecasts that warned of a worst-case scenario with up to 10,000 missing apprenticeships in September. We also had a number of debates here in plenary on this important topic of youth unemployment. The situation of uncertainty has cost young people, with whom I have also been in contact, a lot of nerves. I am glad that we have been able to put in place the right measures that have prevented this. The number of teaching institutions and those seeking teaching places has largely adjusted to those of recent years. Our aim was to secure existing training places with a mix of measures and to create new training places with incentives for entrepreneurs. There are currently about 10,000 open apprenticeships and 12,000 job seekers. What appears again in the statistics are regional problems which we had before the crisis and which have now been reinforced. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are federal states in which more training places are currently available compared to last year, unfortunately there are also federal states in which currently less than last year are available. We must also address these problems away from the existing corona crisis without mutual debt allocations between the federal states and the federal government. It is gratifying that the apprentice bonus of up to 3 000 euros per apprentice has already been applied for over 7,800 times by interested entrepreneurs. Despite this gratifying number, of course it was not possible to resolve the forthcoming gap not only in the operating environment, therefore 2 600 additional places were created in the over-company area. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In this context, it is clear that we can continue to closely monitor developments in the workplace market and further appropriate measures to safeguard training places. The extension of short work for apprentices until 31. ==References====External links==* Official website We have made it our goal to offer young people the best possible opportunities even in a crisis situation. We were able to prevent the worst for September. However, in order for the trend to remain positive, we need to work on open construction sites such as regional differences. I hope that this proposal will be widely accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e22555	Mr Christoph Matznetter has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e22579	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The two proposals we have now come forward show us only one: The Covid crisis continues – the economic consequences as well. I hope that slumbering and the unhappiness of the Federal Government will not continue to help the economy, otherwise we will get into even more serious problems. Now, as an Austrian, you could say: We have a chance: If Gernot Blümel wins in Vienna, the Minister of Finance could crumble there. But as a passionate Viennaer, I fear this and do not want to get to the green grievances like the Black Peter in Vienna and therefore assume that we still have to deal here with things like six missing zeros, memory gaps, 86 times in 3 hours, a laptop that cannot be remembered, friends who are in charge and already a month before calculate 5 percent VAT; I fear that all these things will not be saved from us. My request to the government groups: Take it a little bit to the kandare! Sometimes one has weaker members of the government, then one must help to a greater extent as a parliamentary group of the government. Finally, he can't do that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this sense, I hope for Vienna that he will be saved from Vienna. So far, it has been a well-managed city – this should not get worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e22628	Mr Peter Haubner came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e22652	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Christoph Matznetter, the topic is dual training – and dual training is too important as we offer a sideshow here to your election campaign. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lightenness: That's what ÖVP says right now!]] Yes, dual training is one of the success models of training in Austria, which is also a model for Europe as a whole, and therefore it is also so important that we motivate entrepreneurs to further train them, to give young people a chance and that young people become skilled and trained. This is very important, because the economy needs good skilled workers and young people need a safe job, and we can do so in dual training, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Mr Zorba has already explained the details of this extension of the short work for apprentices. I think it is a very important point that, in addition to short-time work for employees, we should also extend short-time work for apprentices, because this is also a very important measure for these young people. Let's take a look at the dual training: In Austria, about 100,000 young people are in this dual training. In other words, four out of ten young people are in a vocational training course, in which they are shown something they can need for their lives in a farm. That is why this training is one of the best in Europe. The figures speak a very nice and clear language: The number of training establishments and the number of apprentices is fairly stable and we have only a very minimal decline this year despite crisis. I am particularly pleased that we even have an increase in this area in my native country of Salzburg. We currently have about 32,000 apprentices in the first year of education. That is to say, the measures we have taken here were correct. The apprentices have a job and the businesses have young people who can train them. So summa summarum we can say: a success story that is still being rewritten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e22705	Next speaker: Mr Erwin Anger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e22729	Mr President. Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haubner and colleagues from the Greens, unfortunately the situation for the apprentices is not so rosy. It is the right step that we are now extending this short-term job by March 2021, but one should do one thing or another in order to perhaps create the missing apprenticeships. We currently have around 10 000 job seekers and this There are about 7,000 apprenticeships opposite. The situation in Vienna is very dramatic, where 41 percent of teaching places are missing compared to the previous year. So in Vienna, it obviously doesn't run around like that either. There is a decision by the government that teaching posts will be supported by 2 000 euros to 3 000 euros – this is a drop on the hot stone. We've talked about the Blum bonus for the last time: This would be a promotion over the entire teaching period, including for existing apprentices, not only for apprentices who are newly recruited. This would be an incentive, as it created 12 000 new apprenticeships between 2004 and 2008. Mrs Minister, you yourself have thought about the introduction of this flower bonus, at least you mentioned it at a press conference. Mr Blum has now also revised this flower bonus, and we hereby make a request concerning this revised flower bonus as a so-called corona flower bonus, namely 400 euros per month in the first year, 200 euros per month in the second year and 100 euros per month in the third year: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[19:59]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e22890	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and under negotiation. Dr. Johannes Margreiter is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e22918	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear viewer! I'm outside of the novel to the 2nd. COVID-19-Justice Act. The law is in itself unproblematic. It provides for the extension of time limits which are necessary because the pandemic does not leave us so quickly. In particular, as regards the insolvency rules, it is important that the deadline be extended so that companies do not have to apply for insolvency due to over-indebtedness. However, I am taking the opportunity to report on a traffic light which, of course, is not so broad a circle of the population. There is also a courtroom, and this courtroom is very strange. In the area of the Oberlandesgericht Innsbruck, for example, it has only three colours. There green and yellow are switched evenly, and with orange it is imperative that every visitor to the court must be measured the temperature. I consider this to be somewhat problematic in legal terms, because it is not so easy to collect such personal data under the General Data Protection Regulation. In the area of the Landesgericht Graz it is a bit more relaxed, there you don't need it. In the area of the Justice Centre Vienna, the traffic light for the inner city of Vienna shines completely differently again. There is a general provision that for the duration of the measures adopted by the Federal Government in connection with the control of the pandemic, there is an obligation to be measured with a contactless fever thermometer fever. So there's a fragmentation, the traffic light flashes crazy. Now I say it's really nice on and on, when lights flash colorfully, that fits into a village disco, but as a means of combating pandemic, that's not an appropriate way. I address the urgent appeal to the Minister of Justice for her to establish a uniform state of law and, above all, in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e22955	Mrs Mag.a Agnes Sirkka Prammer is speaking. – Please, Mrs Deputies. e.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e22984	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! Once again, it is necessary to extend the time limits which allow credit to be spent and insolvency claims made for over-indebtedness. Why is it necessary? – Because many creditors are still in an economic situation, in which it is simple and simply not possible to return to normal repayment plans. We are still in a serious health and economic crisis. In order to help people and companies that have entered into good times liabilities that they can now no longer serve in this totally unforeseen difficult economic situation, we have originally created all these provisions together in the Covid-19 Justice Act. With the extension of these time limits, we can put enormous pressure on many households and companies and at the same time prevent premature insolvency procedures which are no longer necessary in the light of the stabilisation of these conditions. The regulation gives the air to breathe, which now stands undying the water to the neck. It helps them to go through until the economic conditions are back to the level they have planned when the liabilities are entered, and then they can resume the repayments. At the same time, we are saving many companies from having to commission and pay a largely unpredictable survival forecast, and facilitating the granting of loans by shareholders by extending the provisions on their reimbursability. That is why I hope again to have a broad agreement on these very sensible regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e23018	Next speaker: Mr Klaus Köchl. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e23042	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Mrs Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! If it is possible for the Mayor of Vienna Ludwig and his councillor to issue a training guarantee, I do not understand why this Federal Government is opposed to giving a training guarantee. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Do you know how young people have no perspective? Do you know how young people want to learn a profession and not find a teaching place? Sebastian Kurzist took part in the National Council election to change something. He said: It's time! – And I'm asking: But for what? Because people are afraid that many people have no perspective? That also concerns very, very many young people. 42,000 young people aged 15 to 24 were unemployed in summer. This was about half more than in the comparison period 2019. Perhaps some of them, for example, wanted to teach tourism in the future, which wanted to complete the most sought-after hotel and gastronomy trainings worldwide, which wanted to become best-trained and internationally sought-after professionals? What about them? - They don't find a place to teach. For gastronomy professionals, for example, the classical waiter's apprentice, there are 50 percent fewer registrations in September than in the previous year. In the teaching profession travel agency assistants usually find 60 teaching beginners throughout Austria a course or a training opportunity. This time there are six applications for three years of training and a few others with a shortened teaching contract. There is a need for a forward-looking policy that nevertheless manages to enable young people to be trained. That is why we are making a request again: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We want the federal government to take up apprentices, we want the countries to take in apprentices, and we want the federal government to support the communities when it comes to apprentices. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[20:07]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e23214	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. Mrs Mag.a Michaela Steinacker has been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e23242	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! Yes, we have indeed difficult times behind us and probably still for a certain period of time, and many people have become financially difficult. In recent months, we have adopted a set of measures to protect health, strengthen the economy and save jobs. In the context of these measures and this bundle, we have provided, among other things, for micro-enterprises and private individuals, the possibility of spending their loans on banks to respond to the income losses of these micro-enterprises or private individuals. The second thing we did: We have created the so-called insolvency brake. In other words, all companies that are over-indebted from March onwards do not have to apply for the insolvency order immediately. You all know the current situation: The number of infections is rising, the economic situation is still difficult for some entrepreneurs, for some private individuals it is still getting worse, especially when they lose their jobs. We therefore want to extend this credit support scheme and, on the other hand, to extend the insolvency brake again, because our measures, which we have, of course, also decided with the help of the Minister for Economic Affairs, help. The fixed-cost grant comes from short-time work, and the hard-fall fund for entrepreneurs also helps, and that is why we believe that entrepreneurs can get out of this very difficult economic situation. Let me say one more word on loans, loans, just to clarify the following: Borrowings shall automatically extend the maturity periods until the borrower agrees with his bank. It is also clear that at this time the fixed interest rates will not be due until later, but the fixed interest rates will, of course, be applied. This approach, which has also been confirmed – and we have also established it in June – is also in line with the guidelines of the European Banking Supervisory Board. These guidelines indicate that these grants should not have an impact on the terms of the contract, but above all on interest rates. That's why it's quite clear: Interests continue to fall to the extent that they cannot be waived. I hope that we can help people and companies in Austria and make life easier by extending credit support opportunities and insolvency brakes. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to agree to these procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e23287	The honourable Member is speaking. Christian Ragger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e23311	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I would like to refer briefly to the Covid-19 Act and the extension of the deadline for loans. We have these loans until 31. ==References====External links== Yes, that'll be ten months. I've looked into all the laws: It is not known to me that after these ten months an extension of the loan will also be taken back. I have found this nowhere in a legal provision. But I tell you what that means in reality: ==References====External links== January, no extension of the loan will have to be made, and this is clarified, a new currency of the loan. That is, for hundreds of thousands of borrowers in Austria, because of the fact that their economic situation has deteriorated over the last ten months, an interest-rate increase is taking place, and this ultimately causes millions of amounts for current borrowers who currently have an extension of the loan, amounts of hundreds, thousands of euros, perhaps even millions of amounts. Perhaps we should clarify this together with the Minister, but also with the competent bodies, because if that is the case, we have made the Bock a gardener here today, by doing a support of the loans and at the end of the day the fallout is taking place. We should really look at this together in plenary and think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e23344	Next speaker: Ms. Mag.a Selma Yildirim. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e23368	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! ==References====External links== COVID-19-Justice Act is intended to continue to relieve borrowers and creditors and to recover payments up to 31. ==References====External links== It is therefore about interest and repayment payments, the suspension of insolvency obligations in case of over-indebtedness and loans under the equity replacement law. Many, very many righteous people in Austria are in dire conditions due to the pandemic. Many have lost their jobs and entrepreneurs suffer from sales declines or have even had to lock up their business with much commitment and abandonment. However, the aid measures decided on often fail to reach out to micro and small enterprises in particular, and many creditors are simply unable to pay their repayment rates at the moment. Unfortunately, this also includes people who – following the Federal Chancellor’s advice – wanted to fix the lack of sustainable housing with the purchase of a small apartment. Therefore, a legal extension of the deadline by another three months is urgently necessary. The question is: What's going on in the February? Will the many people find a job again? Will the micro and small enterprises achieve sufficient sales again? - I'm afraid it won't go so fast. The Federal Chancellor saw light at the end of the tunnel a short time ago, now he says he had long called for a strengthening of the measures – a zigzag course that is not comprehensible. The same applies to the measures and their easing. People in Austria are able to cope with a crisis situation when evidence-based, clear and understandable communication is communicated. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, if one extreme falls into another at short intervals, it is difficult to achieve the necessary acceptance – once the traffic lights as an important signal instrument and then apparently as a toy of the Minister of Health without any force of statement. This crisis is an exceptional situation that does not pass over to us in a few weeks or months. The virus will not disappear, and we all need to keep the impact on people in Austria as low as possible. The SPÖ has worked intensively on the Covid legislative package adopted today, has achieved numerous improvements and has repeatedly given the government a boost of confidence – and this is because we are concerned with the health of people and the lives of people in our country. I ask that the representatives of the Federal Government try to live up to this trust and use the powers conferred on them, taking into account the results of science and research, but also fundamental and freedom rights. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e23411	Mrs Kaufmann is speaking next. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e23435	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House, but above all also dear spectators! First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say that I am very surprised by Mr Matznetter of the SPÖ. The vocational training law and the novels are on the agenda and it goes out here and does not speak a single word about dual vocational training. Now we know what the SPÖ is really worth teaching in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Before the summer, the SPÖ introduced here in the Hohe Haus a urgent one, with regard to the concern that no apprentice will find a training place, that it will be disastrous throughout Austria and that the government does not have the right solutions. But what happened? – dual vocational training has been strengthened – dual vocational training, which is valued internationally, dual vocational training, which in Austria is training our professionals, dual vocational training, which with its specialists will continue to secure the location of Austria in the future. It was our Minister of Economic Affairs Margarete Schramböck who immediately started measures that helped with the apprenticeship bonus at the right time and encouraged many entrepreneurs in really difficult times that they train apprentices so that we can also have skilled staff in three and four years. One thing is clear to us about entrepreneurs who are still looking for apprentices: We need these professionals. We will also need in three or four years these young people who now have the courage to begin this teaching. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have now had 12 000 open teaching places in Austria in autumn, but only 10,000 job seekers. Yes, it is true, in Vienna this looks a bit different, but I would also like to send the following message to all young people who are in Vienna: Perhaps this is the ideal opportunity to get the dream job also in the federal states, because I know a lot of entrepreneurs in the federal states who would be happy to train young committed people in their businesses. Dual vocational training is the right training for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e23480	Magnificence comes to the fore. Peter Weidinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e23504	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister for Economic Affairs! High house! Dear listeners! Dear listeners! Our common goal is to strengthen health, to support the economy and to secure jobs. It is therefore necessary for us, ladies and gentlemen, to support and help those people who have experienced loss of income due to the pandemic that has caused certain conditions. How do you do that? – Quite clearly, by dampening and reducing money outflows for people on the one hand, and on the other hand, enabling money inflows for people. We do this with the short work, we do this with the income tax reduction of 25 to 20 percent, we do with the investment premium and we do so with the child bonus. And to the address of the SPÖ: Dissemination Please don't be pessimism! Optimizism is announced! The investment premium is effective and we have expanded it because many companies believe in this country and see the future here. Ladies and gentlemen, reducing money flows in the context of a credit moratorium means that private households and micro-enterprises, which before the 15. In March, loans have not been entered due to the pandemic. We have maturity until 31. October suspended; if you agree to this law, the maturity will be up to 31. It's been exposed to January. That's important, that's good. In terms of content, I fully support the statements made by our Judge Mag.a Michaela Steinacker. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support this important law for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e23547	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Is there the wish for a final word on the part of reporting? - That's not the case. There may also be no wish of the clubs to interrupt a session. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each item on the agenda separately. We come to the vote on item 15 of the agenda on the draft law on a federal law which amends the vocational training law, including title and receipt, contained in Amendment 832/A. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval at third reading to a sign. – That too is unanimous. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Erwin Angerer, ladies and gentlemen, on the creation of teaching places by the introduction of the Blum-Bonus-Corona. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – That's the minority. This request is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Klaus Köchl, colleagues on 'Leader guarantee at the time of Corona'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. We shall vote on item 16 of the agenda on the draft law contained in Amendment 831/A concerning a federal law with which the 2. The Federal Act on Covid-19 accompanying measures is amended in the judicial system, including title and receipt. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to a positive sign. – That is unanimous. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. [[20:23:00]] 17. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (354 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the Establishment of a Fund for the Promotion of the Contributions of Independent Artists to Legal Social Insurance (K-SVFG) (372 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e23669	We reach the 17th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mag. Eva Blimlinger. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e23699	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens or screens! Today, we decide to increase the Coronahilfe Fund from EUR 5 million to EUR 10 million in the Künstler Sozialversicherungsfonds from EUR 5 million to EUR 10 million, which I am particularly pleased to be able to apply in this fund in particular for those who have difficulty with all the other funds because their income and employment are so heterogeneous that income is so low that it is difficult to get into other funds. I can only say to a story that has taken root, namely that the artists have received something as the last thing: If you stick to the facts, they were the first ones to get something because the artist's social insurance fund had already begun paying out in March, mid-March; in the first phase with 2.1 million euros, in the second phase, starting from 10. July has run, it is 2.8 million euros. There are still applications that we would like to deal with as they meet the conditions, and we have therefore decided to increase this fund to EUR 10 million. I mention a few other actions in the field of art and culture. In the case of the bridging fund, about 5 500 applications have been made, most of them positive; we are also trying to get another change. Mr Schellhorn and Mr Drozda will give a press conference tomorrow, in which they will ask the question: “Does culture die the silent Corona death?” – Of course not! If you look around a bit, see that the culture lives from Bregenz to Eisenstadt: Peter Fischli at the Kunsthaus Bregenz; the sound tracks in Schwaz in Tyrol; the border in St. Jakob/Šentjakob – a wonderful project –; the Styrian autumn; ‘Graffiti & Bananas’; Ars Electronica in Upper Austria; “I am in the picture” in the Periscope and “Freak the Funk!” in Salzburg, “Magda Leeb – Die Kaiserin von Österreich”, a cabaret in Eisenstadt; ‘Acknowledgment of the high-speeder Felix Krull’ in the Landestheater Niederösterreich; European ballet St. Pölten. In Vienna is as always the most, I can of course only list a few: the Design Week opens tomorrow; the Parallel Vienna; the Vienna Contemporary; You can see in the opera “Madama Butterfly”; “The funny widow”; in the theatre “The German Lunch Table” by Thomas Bernhard; You can see in the Sonnwendviertel “Jattle, BAM and Poetry” of Danceability; Huggy Bears; Film matins; whatever. – That means the culture lives. A few of my colleagues here would be the great exhibition. Recommend “After the flight” in the main book of Vienna. This is a wonderful example of what it can lead to when Austria takes on refugees, how it integrates into the country and how its career goes. And, of course, I am still in favour of the fact that the Windisch-Kaserne in Klagenfurt should be renamed Richard-Wadani-Kaserne.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e23745	The honourable Member is speaking. Thomas Drodza. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e23766	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we will agree to the doubling of the Covid-19 Fund in the Künstler-Socialversicherungsgesetz from 5 to 10 million euros. But that it is not done with it, we all know, even if this description of the cultural life between Bregenz and the Neusiedler See is undoubtedly true. We know, however, that the aids that have been addressed so far have not arrived where they should arrive. We now have a hollow half year behind us, about which we have gotten more bad than right over it. We are now standing for another half year, where we have to assume that there will be massive loss of revenue. If this development continues, at the end of the pandemic, we will face cultural lunar landscapes. Therefore, from our point of view, it takes three things very short-term: First: If we want cultural life to take place in spring, in summer, we now have to start planning. This requires state guarantees. No one knows how the situation will develop. No one knows how revenue will develop. We need a liability shield now and we need support for the organizers now. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, we have called for this before the summer, and we will address it again tomorrow, and we need financial support for the implementation of hygiene concepts. This is something that has been made available in tourism; 150 million euros have been made available that will not be collected. There is no reasonable reason not to support cultural establishments with these funds. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Thirdly – and this is seen by the variety of protest measures that are now being carried out –: It is urgent to resume the discourse with the cultural creators in order to give them a perspective. So it finally needs an effective rescue shield for art and culture, because otherwise, I fear, in order to paraphrase a quote, at the end of the day, everyone will know a cultural institution that has not survived the Corona crisis.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e23810	Mrs Maria Großbauer came to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e23834	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Dear Seers! High house! Mr Drozda, I was sick of the corona virus myself in March, but you are suffering from something else. I think you're suffering from loss of memory, but I'd like to help you say again that the help has not arrived. [[Abg. Drozda: Please!]] If you listened carefully to my colleague, Blimlinger, you knew – she just told me – what happened where it arrived and how much. [[Abg. Drozda:... does that really believe so, gal?]] Today we look forward and know that much is still to be done, so we want to double the Künstler-Socialversicherungsfund to 10 million euros today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In recent months, this Federal Government has put in place a whole cultural package to support the many people in the field of culture in Austria. These include the Economic Chamber's hard-term fund, short-time work, which of course could also be used for many employees in the cultural sector, museums and theatres, the bridging fund for self-employed artists of 90 million euros and the re-insurance of the film industry amounting to 25 million euros. [[Abg. Drozda: Yes, it worked great!]] There were also various support funds from the collecting societies such as the AKM. The NPO Fund, the fund for non-profit associations in all areas of life, but of course also for culture, has already supported over 900 cultural associations. ==References== August has been paid 13.8 million euros to these more than 900 clubs. We already have a turnover or VAT reduction of 10 and 13 percent to 5 percent, and it will also be extended for the coming year 2021 – for art and cultural businesses, but also for sales from artistic activities, for books, newspapers and cetera – because art and culture of this federal government are important. At this point also a great thanks to our Secretary of State Andrea Mayer! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Yes, the artist social insurance fund is to be increased by EUR 5 million. He was an important instrument before Corona and helped artists when they got into emergency situations. The Covid-19 Fund has now taken special care of this situation – if revenue breaks in, namely not only for artists, but also for cultural intermediaries. Until now, until 17. September, 2.8 million euros were paid, and it continues. We are now again in a critical phase in this crisis. The number of infections is rising, especially in Vienna. There are travel warnings. This means a new damage to tourism, to the city hotels, but also to culture, because according to a study, 70 percent of the Vienna tourists have said that they come to Vienna because of art and culture. The Albertina lives to a large extent of cultural tourists. The Vienna State Opera has up to a third visitors from other countries. However, I would like to conclude with a positive thought. The cultural event area in Austria has also made positive headlines worldwide over the summer. Very, very positively, I would like to draw out the Salzburg Festival or the Grafenegg Festival in Lower Austria. It was impressive how professionally the corona prevention concepts were implemented, and they were an important example and an important example for autumn and winter. The risk of infection at cultural events with assigned seats and a professional prevention concept is quite manageable. For example, if I hear that in the Wiener Konzerthaus in the Großen Saal, the air is completely exchanged four times per hour – without airflow and with perfect moisture, so that it doesn't get so dry that someone needs to cough – then I can only animated the audiences: We are in a pandemic, but please use the cultural offers that are now possible and which are taking place! Go to the theater, to the concert, to the opera! By doing so, please make a contribution to the culture and support the culture! Culture must continue to take place, and culture needs audience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e23913	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Volker Tireberger. – Mr Magister, before you take the floor, one more request to the Members of Parliament: I noticed that relatively many mandates put their used masks on the speaker's desk. I suggest not to do so because otherwise we reach the opposite of what we wanted to do with the masks. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Smoking.]] Please, Mr. Magister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e23946	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! One thing before: Of course, we support the increase of the artist social insurance fund from 5 to 10 million euros. It was actually clear already in spring that the 5 million will not be enough for the whole year. However, only partially Covid-19 is to blame, the true debtors are actually sitting on the left and right of me on the government bank, or they are sitting here if they are present today. With the policy of the fear of our federal government, we have brought a lot of things to our country: the economy, the labour market, urban tourism, night gastronomy and especially the art and cultural landscape. Whoever makes a baby elephant out of a fly must not be surprised when at the end of the porcelain shop is broken. If you allow the artists to exercise their art free of senseless restrictions, and if you at last stop putting the people into fear and terror, we don't need these new laws today. But they play with the lowest and oldest instincts and feelings of people, they put them in fear. People who are afraid tend to believe everything, take it up and let it go about them, and as we now know, you are working with the fear of the population very specifically. The foot-and-mouth protection is the symbol of your fear policy – the mask is just a symbol, no more and no less – and the second wave flag is also not necessarily used to convey security to the population. This toxic mixture of restrictions and fundamental rights intervention on the one hand and the fear of the population on the other is pure poison for the local art and cultural landscape. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's why you need to spend a lot of money now, a lot of money. “Taste it what it wants,” it said – you talk easily, because it’s not your money, it’s the taxpayer’s money, and spending the money of the others is relatively easy – but all your rescue packages will not be able to repair the damage that you – yes, you, the government, and not the virus – have done. Give the artists, but also all the other people the old, the right normality back, and end this corona madness!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e23990	Josef Schellhorn is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e24014	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Yes, Eva Blimlinger, I know there's some respect for what Drozda and I are doing tomorrow and what we're going to discuss. The truth looks a little different, and we are now happy to talk about how many cultural events have taken place. Yeah, they did. And why did they happen? – Because the artists themselves have had the need to perform them – I can report it itself – because they were also in a certain house arrest situation and then needed to make cultural events take place, even if they had to carry out them with dramatic cuts. - That's fact. But the question is: How long is it going to be? What are they doing next year and next year? If we think about the next year, we must now ask, Mrs State Secretary: What about the art and cultural strategy? Do we have to rework them now? Then: It will, if we look into the truth, de facto there is less money, there will be dramatically less money, because we all have to deal with the budget in some way, and this requires a clear strategy. This requires a strategy, as they have, for example, the French. They are also proud of their cultural nation, and they have also anchored how much we can provide in the budget for art and culture and how much that is. If you divide this and you calculate it together, even with all the ministries, because they have a different system, then at least 2.4 percent of the budget comes together. It's not even 0.3 percent with us, and that's fact. Then I wonder: What's that worth? – Of course, we agree, because at the beginning we have already said: That's too little what's happening here! Then on planning security and on all these cultural events: In recent times, we have also had relatively much conversation with small cultural institutions that wanted to have events held and conducted. However, the fact is in this chaos of the District Head Teams that the District Head Teams did not even look at or read about this health or hygiene concept or have provided feedback; that those were sent from Pontius to Pilate, also in Vienna, but also in the federal states. I'll have to say, If one submits prevention concepts and they are not even read, then that is actually sad. That's what it takes: In the future, it will need a simplified submission of funding and billing. This is what they also criticize, and it also needs funding for the houses and associations, which usually come out without promotion or with a high degree of self-evidentity, because they also fall through. This is also the problem, and I am not talking about the federal institutions yet, because in the next few years they are missing amounts that are in a double-digit millions, and no one is talking about them. At the same time, we know what's happening. Less money will be available, and then probably someone says: Yes, you also have to make cuts, get your driver off or anything! – How absurd is that? So that is, the most important thing we need now, next to that we agree here today, is an art and culture strategy for the next ten years, because we must not do one thing: simply starve them in budget. Then we starve spiritually, then we starve out intellectually, because at every cultural event, from me also at a bubble music concert, it rips people up the brain; at every theatre event, it rips people up the brain and they get to know new spheres. We do not support this, but we drive seeing eyes with these small cultural institutions, but also with the big against the wall, because we do not have a reasonable strategy, which simply puts a vision once and is not just a strategy for the next three years. A vision is a directive: Where do we want to move and where can we move so that we can finally be proud of this cultural nation, which is also referred to by German Chancellors in short? [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] This is the point, and I would like to ask you, Mrs State Secretary, that you, too, try to get the money here, so that you can get the money. so that you can implement this cultural strategy and that we can work together to ensure that the cultural creators in this country have something in mind. The light at the end of the tunnel should not be the train that comes across them.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e24077	Ms Mag.a Andrea Mayer spoke on an opinion. - Please, Mrs. State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e24102	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, to the National Council! With the present amendment of the Künstler-Socialversicherungsfondsgesetz, we can ensure that the artists who live at the bottom of the income line survive this crisis. The artists were the first to be affected by this crisis, and they will suffer even longer from this crisis. We are in contact with the whole scene, Mr Drozda. I don't need to be told we don't have any contact. We talk to every industry, to freelance artists, to the representatives of interests, to large institutions, to small institutions, to commercial and to non-profit providers. The whole scene confirms this and is glad about it. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drozda.]] Above all, the last days and weeks were not easy for the cultural industry. We've had a break-up in the summer. Thankfully, Mrs Blimlinger has already listed and reported what was possible in the whole of Austria, and that was also possible – as I am right in giving Mr Schellhorn – because we have a lot of creative people in Austria, courageous people who, even in difficult times, put something on their feet, let themselves come up with concepts and see that we are experiencing art and culture now, because this is part of our lives, because we also need spiritual food and because there is also a certain mood, a positive mood in the country and is created. The low levels of infection have enabled us to experience art and culture again after a multi-month thirst track and to be part of the audience again. I've missed a lot of people, too. The institutions have been very exemplary in this situation and have enabled great prevention and security concepts, thus guaranteeing the risk that exists at present also a reasonable one and thus also security for the public, as well as it goes. Unfortunately, the pandemic is quite inexorable, you all know the numbers. You are aware of the renewed measures that the Federal Government had to take, and I am aware that these measures are also considered to be a step backwards by various bodies in the cultural sector. I therefore believe that the minimum we can do as the Federal Government is to ensure at the financial level a suspension of this difficult situation. With the second phase of the Covid-19 Fund, the Künstler Social Insurance Fund, we created a collection network at the beginning of July for those artists and cultural intermediaries who could not be included in the larger support funds because their income is too low. These are, for example, co-insurers, unemployed people, or even people who are not insured at all. This group has been able to receive a single payment of up to 3 000 euros since the beginning of July from the KSVF's Covid-19 Fund. That's about 1,400 people. Since the beginning of July, the Fund's resources have been exhausted, together with the first phase. With the increase of EUR 5 to EUR 10 million, we are now ensuring that this group can continue to be helped. But this is only part of the measures we have taken in the Federal Government to overcome this serious crisis in the arts and culture sector. We have taken a large number of measures for the various areas, and we have already adopted a total of 160 million euros to this day in addition to the cultural budget – I repeat: 160 million euros in addition to the regular art and culture budget. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] This is more than one third of the annual cultural budget. In addition, this is also noted in the much quoted comparison with the German cultural billion, keyword factor ten, an amount that can be seen. I am not yet talking about the funds from the short-time work or the fixed-cost grant or the hardness fund, which also partially benefit the cultural sector. However, I do not want to boast of it at all, but it is a necessity and a matter of course that the Federal Government, in this situation of the arts and culture industry, also helps to get over this crisis. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] There are, of course, areas – and we are driving on the lookout and we are learning to do so – in which we need to inculcate. The cultural sector is, of course, seriously affected by this crisis, but it has already succeeded a lot, and we will continue to take sufficient money where necessary to support the industry now so that we do not lose anyone through this crisis. The Covid-19 fund of the Künstler-Socialversicherungsfonds is a relatively small but therefore not unimportant step along this path. I'm allowed to ask you for a broad consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e24184	Mrs Mag. Maria Smodics-Neumann. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e24208	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not see Mr Matznetter now, what I am very sorry about, because I would like to congratulate him: He is the funniest colleague in this House. It is hard to tap, because in his speeches the ORF has to show the belly bandage “This shipment contains product placements” instead of the name below, and on the other hand he has made an extraordinary statement today. I remember when I got back a school job from a teacher and was then told in front of the class: Maria can do better!, then it was usually not necessarily a compliment, but I had to get together that I would do better – Mr. Matznetter perhaps made a Dana gift to Mr. Mayor there. But I'm perfectly right about him, the city government of Vienna could do better. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But now on the subject: Mrs. State Secretary, thank you very much for the very precise explanations and also for these great help to the artists. These are really necessary to correct the hardest hardness. But I think it must be clear to all of us that, in fact, we all have it in common. I am now specifically looking straight at the colleagues of the FPÖ, because the truth is – also dear spectators –: The faster We work together by following the measures that must be taken to ensure that the number of infections no longer increases, but the faster the economy comes, but now, in particular, also art and cultural creators in this area, not to be dependent on promotions, but to be able to restore their artistic life independently and freely and, above all, to challenge their livelihood independently and freely. That must be our goal. That's why: Let's get together, then we'll get it too! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e24254	Mrs. Irene Neumann-Hartberger is speaking on the floor. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e24278	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Trend and future researcher Matthias Horx, in an article on the Corona crisis, makes the following clear: As bad a pandemic as it may be, it always offers opportunities for society to grow together in a crisis and turn out to be more resilient if you want to. We must therefore accept that this pandemic will accompany us even longer. We must definitely not want them impoverished, but we must learn to deal with them with optimism and with a great deal of self-responsibility and responsibility towards our fellow human beings. Don't take this responsibility on your shoulder! Let us respond to this crisis with confidence and let us stay together! Not Covid-19 will split our society, but on the best way to do this, are those who make negative sentiments with ignorance, insolence and populist appeals against the actions of this Federal Government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The innumerable accusations of the opposition appear to me that some really believe that Austria alone and not the whole world is affected by this crisis and that there are only evil measures, restrictions and economic problems in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] The better we manage to limit further spread of this virus, the faster a return to our normal everyday life and a recovery and economic stabilisation will be possible again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] This will require the effort of all, not just individuals. For many sectors and sectors, the current situation is a major challenge without an end to this one. Especially the artists with their loss of revenue are threatened in their existence, and therefore it is all the more important today to increase the artist's social security fund. This fund, originally set up in 2015, has been extended by EUR 5 million in addition to the previous Covid support options for the suspension of revenue losses, and precisely these EUR 5 million have already been exhausted. However, there are still open applications, and they will probably still be available in the future. I am pleased that we are launching the donation for another 5 million euros together today. The artists will thank us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e24336	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Before we enter the voting process, I ask the clubs if an interruption is desired. - That's not the case either. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 354 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[20:56:51]] 18. Point Report by the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives on petitions No. 4 and 10 as well as the citizens' initiatives No. 2, 4, 8 and 9, 18, 21 and 22 (307 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e24394	We arrive at the 18th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Nikolaus Principal has now been declared speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e24424	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Work in the Committee on Petitions is characterised by the treatment of various topics, either as a petition by Members or as a citizens' initiative to us. It contains a great variety of things, which makes the discussion very lively. There is, of course, also the possibility of getting expert opinions and opinions so that we can find out very well how the further procedure is best designed. This helps to break down quite emotional topics to a reasonable level so that constructive work can be done. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] In general, it is clear that despite the diversity of topics and also the fullness of topics, the work in the Committee on Petitions is actually very constructive. At the last Committee meeting, it succeeded in negotiating almost 50 agenda items. In the collective report, two different petitions and seven citizens' initiatives have been completed accordingly, or could be assigned to a specialist committee, and they will be discussed today. It should also be noted that the Committee Presidency by Mr Michael Bernhard is very consensus-oriented. – Thank you very much for that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, as well as congratulation and bravado with the NEOS.]] In March, the Committee unanimously decided on the allocation of three citizens' initiatives to specialist committees so that they can be discussed again; in fact, requests for legislative decisions are not possible in the Committee on Petitions, but they can be further discussed in the Committee. The citizens’ initiative “Don’t make homes poor!” is one of these citizens’ initiatives, which we assign to the Committee on Buildings and Housing by means of this collective report. In this context, I should also like to refer to the government programme in which the introduction of a procurement principle on commissions is planned. The purpose of the Financial Committee is to provide advice on the introduction of a financial transaction tax. The human rights committee is concerned with organ trafficking, and if you think about China and how few rights the people concerned have, you know how important it is that this issue be dealt with in the Human Rights Committee. In this context, it is also possible to refer to the resolution of July, which we have adopted unanimously, in which the government was asked to continue to act accordingly in the future. The remaining petitions and citizens' initiatives will be addressed accordingly by my colleagues. However, education and transport issues have been addressed, for example, or the 5G development. I have two more issues to address. In the Committee on Petitions, Mr Bernhard raised the very sensitive issue of death aid several times and brought in the petition “self-determined dying in dignity”. We have largely postponed their treatment to wait for the opinion of the Austrian Constitutional Court. It may still be this week. For me, this is an example of how to bring a sensitive, emotional issue to a constructive level, and how we can share with each other possible arguments and measures. Finally, I can still talk about a subject that is very important to me personally. I, together with Mr Singer and Mr Zopf, have tabled a petition on the subject of successful wolf management in Austria, and colleagues from Styria, Tyrol and Salzburg have done the same. I believe that we must no longer look at this subject, we must act. It's about protecting human beings, but it's also about protecting animals. I ask all those colleagues who know the subject of big prey grippers and especially Wolf only from fairy tale books, perhaps from school or from the zoo, to look at a slightly different facet. Take a look at pictures! Especially in the alpine area there have been a lot of cracks by wolves this year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] Look You look at pictures of torn animals, whether this is a sheep or a calf, look at that! Where's the animal protection? Take a look at a video where a sheep attacked by the wolf tries to move on three legs because the fourth leg, as it were, was torn off by the wolf! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] Where's the animal protection? I would ask you to consider this when discussing the subject of Wolf! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of herd protection: I am a shepherd myself, and if we want pastures and pastures to be further managed, then we have to realize that the herd protection does not work, not on the 200, 300 hectar pasture, but also not in small-farm agriculture. [[Abg. Amesbauer: That's a joke!]] [[Abg. Singer: You're so great!]] Those who want to discuss it are invited to me. It only has to take the fence, please at least 1,50 meters high, everything else is pointless; you have to put around every day. Finance it from agriculture, not from other economic areas. We then try that for a few months, then you know how much work that is and what cost that causes, and then house mind will get into this discussion. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Then submit an application!]] We'll need that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can only ask those who are now following this debate through live stream, for example, to support these petitions. I should also like to point out that it is also possible to introduce citizens' initiatives and petitions. Who wants to support something: Under “Parliament active” and further under “Integration of Citizens” you will find everything you need for it. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e24526	Mr Kollross is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e24548	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to express my opinion on a citizens' initiative which unfortunately did not happen to what the colleague from the EIA said earlier, because it has not been treated as many other petitions and citizens' initiatives and has then been submitted to the relevant committee of decision-making, but it has been negotiated and concluded and is here today for final reporting. That is why it is all the more important to me to speak on the subject again. It's about the planned wide-track railway. I would like to add: On the contrary, it is not the case that a Member has brought it alone, quite the contrary, 4,000 people have participated in this citizens' initiative. The fact that one simply deals with these, I say now, okay, of the ÖVP one may expect nothing else, but that the former Greens' Civil Rights Party also says that 4000 signatures are nothing, we don't want to talk about it anymore, I think that is a bit strange and bad. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What's this wide-track railway all about? – It is about the so-called silk road. The problem is that there are different railway widths and that it is therefore when it comes to this silk road towards Austria that needs a terminal that is then terminal. This is either in the district of Neusiedl, in the district of Baden or in the area of Schwechat, in any case in the east of Austria, and we all know that there is already massive truck traffic there. We also believe that it is not a solution to bring the products by train up to a certain point and then carry them on by truck from there. This is really the problem. That is why I believe it is important that Austria really deals with this issue, that it is not just saying: Okay, that's an annoying topic, and there's 4,000 people signed, we see that we get it away as soon as we can. Nor does the government programme really reveal exactly what Austria's position is in this area. However, the fact is: I believe that it is all the more important for this region to pursue an active transport policy and not to wait for it to develop, with the motto: Let's see! It can also happen something else: It doesn't have to be the district of Neusiedl, it doesn't have to be the district of Baden, it doesn't have to be the district of Schwechat or Bruck, where this terminal is located, but it can also be across the border. But that means exactly the same for the region, namely massive truck traffic. I am looking for the government parties to think again about whether we really want to deal with citizens' initiatives and thousands of signatures in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e24596	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e24617	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The citizens' initiative against the Breitspurbahn was thus subdivided by about 3 300 citizens in the districts of Neusiedl and Bruck at Leitha. This action was initiated by officials of the SPÖ Burgenland, and soon thereafter also officials of the ÖVP Burgenland joined when they came up with it: Hoppla, we have municipal council elections, we need a topic. In my opinion, however, this is the wrong approach to devote itself to this issue. So, on time before a election, an inconsistency political project was raised, and then this project was buried in committee by the ÖVP and the Greens in advance. But you missed an opportunity. We have missed an opportunity to inform the citizens in full, because this wide-track railway does not come, it is already there, in Slovakia; and that is, the goods are coming to us now, most of them on the road. Isn't that what we don't want? Is that not what the Greens have always used vehemently? Now the Greens are in the government, and you hide this nonchalantly generously. The opinion of the Ministry states that the opinions of the municipalities and regions will be included in the decision. But now there will be no further comments, no opinions from the municipalities and regions in which they are able to report their concerns, and no comprehensive opinion from the ÖBB, in which they can present the five possible routes that are possible. This suffocation in the Committee made it impossible to discuss on the basis of well-founded arguments, in times when a green person is sitting in the Ministry of Transport, whose party credo is actually: from the road to the rail. But now it could be called: from the Slovak track to the Austrian road. And what's all this for? – All for a quick luck in country elections. In 2022 we have municipal council elections in Burgenland. Since, I can assure you, this avalanche of traffic will escape its grave again. So much is safe. In my opinion, it is embarrassing and embarrassing how the fear of the population is dealt with.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e24655	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e24676	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, when it comes to praising President Michael Bernhard, who, I believe, has a very good grip on this and tries to include all opinions and, above all, all political groups and all the initiatives. Secondly, Mr Commissioner Nikolaus Principal! I think with all appreciation that you shot here too early today, literally. [[Abg. Hear: Hello!]] I expect a fact-based debate on Wolf. When we talk about this issue – there are numerous petitions, Mr Hörl, – we will also have to talk about what herd protection means, which means compensation, which means alm management of the future, so there will be several issues there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] [[Abg. He eats sheep!]] There would also be the possibility in the Committee on Petitions to invite honourable Members to an expert hearing on this matter, I believe. It is open to the political groups to deal with this issue accordingly. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The last Committee on Petitions has received petitions, and it is in line with the House's wishes to seek opinions from the Committee on Petitions. These statements are now under way, and I think it would be serious to look at these things and, as has been said, to talk about them in fact. I hope and am convinced that we will find a way there. On the transport issues, three were crucial in the petitions: “For real quality in road transport!” I would like to thank the supporters who are working for less traffic loads and for greater road safety. In particular, these are the districts of Scheibbs and Liezen, where measures need to be taken and considered, how we manage to leave traffic on the higher-level system and reduce transit through the towns. There's a need for opportunities in the future. However, opportunities already exist over the legal situation, there is less need for a change, a revision of the road traffic regulations. Another petition concerned the track-free platform access at the station Kraubath on the Mur. I believe that it is very important – and this is what we are already saying – that the access to Kroubath via transit and transfer – which is still being discussed – should be implemented without delay by 2025. It is very important – and this is our position – that there is a very good integration of the local communities and a very good coordination with them especially in the development of railway stations, the future mobility hubs. I expect even more involvement of the local communities and the relevant stakeholders in the communities in the future. The Citizens’ Initiative “Towards the Broadway” has already been addressed. From our point of view, from the point of view of the Greens, the goods handling must happen where there are already working mobility hubs where railway stations are being expanded. We are convinced – and that is, I believe, clearly – that the Neusiedl region at the lake and Bruck at Leitha will be the wrong locations for this terminal station. To this end, we declare ourselves quite clearly: It won't work. It will also be necessary to wait for the Breitspur to end in Kosice or until Bratislava is continued. We are definitely behind the population, behind the people, to find a solution, there should be ambitions there. However, what is important to me is that the ÖBB are always involved in possible project planning so that we know what is happening. The last point: “Free Poker Game in Austria”. I think that is quite clear, the VfGH has already dealt with this issue six times, and in this sense we do not recognise the need for change. The addiction potential is also very clear when playing poker, and the regulation with which this is reduced to the innpoker and to concession halls is the right procedure; we stand for that. In any case, however, this citizens' initiative was also discussed in the Committee. I would like to thank you for your cooperation in the Committee on Petitions.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e24742	Mr Bernhard came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e24763	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate viewers! I might want to start with something general. In my view, the Committee on Petitions has not yet received the attention it should have deserved. We have an agenda of 40 to 60 agenda items in the Committee on Petitions. This is not only a wealth of points, but in reality the mirrors of the topics that people are dealing with: a school location in favorites, a federal road in Styria, the Wolf in Tyrol, the silk road in Burgenland, various topics will come around Covid-19. It is noted that people who are concerned about them, who may also be insecure, want to take part in this tool and find it directly in Parliament. This is, in fact, a great basis for establishing more direct citizen participation in Parliament. On this very point, we have repeatedly made proposals in two respects since 2013, namely, that the Parliamentary Directorate and the National Council, and hence you, Mr President, are indeed more involved in communication on this tool. It would also have to be possible for every citizen and every citizen in our country to turn directly to the National Council. This is not the case today, and this is incredibly bad, because it works at least at a certain level, and it would be something that will enable us to carry out democracy, parliamentarianism outside and even more dialogue. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The second point, which is related to this and which has just become quite apparent through Corona: Since 2013, we have also been submitting applications for the digitisation of the Committee on Petitions. What does that mean? – That I can make a topic on my subject, that I find 500 supporters and that this petition, this parliamentary citizens’ initiative, can then digitally bring it into the National Council – and that would have been of great benefit now in Covid-19 times – that such a citizens’ initiative can also be used to campaign to promote support in the population and that there is a discussion forum of its own. Imagine that people could bring their concerns to the National Council and then debate their concerns, and they could advertise that they could also defend them. – This is civil participation in the 21st century. ==References== We have tabled the request for the first time in 2013, and there is now again a corresponding request in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, which has never been found in this House a majority for it. Despite the many possibilities, the Committee on Petitions is still very far back in the 20th century. ==References== Let us see this in the 21st century. Bring in the 19th century! I think that is also something against which there are few arguments. I would like to conclude with another point: We have developed an instrument in the Committee on Petitions in recent years, namely the possibility of hearing, for which we can regularly - at least twice a year so far - nominate a topic on the part of each group, invite experts on this issue and then discuss it with them on the subject. Whether this is the death aid, the wolf, the silk road or the unemployment is subordinate, each political group can nominate such a subject. I think it would be great if these discussions were no longer to take place under the exclusion of the public. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] A Committee of Citizens, excluding citizens, is a rather poor Committee on Petitions. We should also prevent and change this as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e24823	Mr Hintner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e24845	Mr President. High house! Among other things, the Parliamentary Committee on Petitions has dealt with the citizens’ initiative ‘STOP 5G mobile network’. We have received two comments, one from the Federal Ministry of Digitalization, which has made a zero report because it is not responsible, and the other from the Ministry of Health. The Ministry of Health notes in its opinion that the current scientific data do not allow the conclusion that 5G mobile radio broadcasting would be harmful to health in the frequency range of the first frequency. While it is acknowledged that there are more and more votes, these would be in the minority. As regards 5G concerning the second frequency above 24 gigahertz, no statement can be made as data is missing and this second frequency will not work until 5 to 10 years at the earliest. We know that every time a technology is introduced, there are fears. There have been fears when the steam machine was introduced – most of us have read in Peter Rosegger’s “When I was still the forest-farmerbub”, how great the locomotives were taken note of by the population. I think of computer and the Internet, but even the microwave started a lot of discussions at the time, and later American manufacturers even had to change the instructions for use in order not to dry small animals in it. In the present situation, the topic is also placed by conspiracy theorists. Bill Gates and 5G are supposed to be responsible for Corona too, which we must take note of from time to time in the social media. From our point of view, from the point of view of the National Council, and from the point of view of the majority of the population, 5G is a technology for the future along the way of digitization. If we want to continue this digitization, there's no way past 5G.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e24878	Mrs Petra Wimmer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e24902	Mr President. High house! Dear Citizens! As a member of the Committee, I am of course pleased when numerous petitions and citizens' initiatives are brought in and I can represent the concerns of the citizens in Parliament as advocates. The citizens’ initiative entitled “Wohnen mustn’t make poor!” is one that is especially dear to my heart. Every person has the right to live in a quiet, secure and modern way. The catalogue of measures includes demands for the introduction of uniform and low ceilings for rents and an extension of social housing. Living has to be keepable. In view of the financial situation of many Austrians, this has become much more pronounced by the Corona crisis. Many people have to calculate their spending even more accurately, and the rent is now large cost factor in family income. It is therefore all the more important that this citizens' initiative be further developed in the Special Committee. A rental reform and greater transparency in the rental prices are long overdue, and the SPÖ proposal for an Austrian universal rental law has been on the table for a long time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The petition entitled “More High Schools for Favorites” is about the demand for better opportunities for education. With over 200 000 inhabitants, the most populous district in Vienna is favorite. However, this high number of inhabitants faces a far too small number of higher schools. In order to open up to the favourite children and young people good educational opportunities, it would be necessary to expand the offer significantly. Incomprehensiblely, this initiative was only taken note of by the government groups and not assigned to a specialist committee. A further political debate with scope was thus prevented. This takes the children valuable opportunities for education. Ladies and gentlemen, especially important to me is the personal and, of course, the family speaker of our group, that families who are burdened by Corona and need every euro get the best support. That is why I have also brought in a parliamentary petition. This is “close with the obstacles to the Family Hard Fund” and can of course be widely supported by all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e24954	Andreas Minnich has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e24978	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Above all, a warm greeting to God to all the spectators who are still there so late! I would like to refer, in my speech, to the proposals from the Committee on Petitions, to the Citizens' Initiative “Towards the Broadway”. Especially for the population in the southeastern part of Austria, in parts of Lower Austria and in the Burgenland, this issue is of immense importance. This issue is not a new one, and even the fears of the population do not come from today on to tomorrow, this idea has been washed around for years now. Let me get this to you: Yes, we want to benefit from international trade, but we want to do so together with our European partners and, above all, not at the expense of the people and the communities. An extension of the wide-track track alone makes no sense. The project is always linked to the construction of a large logistics facility so that the goods can be transported to the road. Even now, the Bruck district of Leitha is one of the busiest regions in Lower Austria. On the A4 at Mannswörth there are over 120 000 vehicles daily. The district of Neusiedl would also be massively overwhelmed by over 8 million tonnes that would be hit by the rail on the trucks. The possible wide-track construction of our regions must not overstep our regions. This project, however, is not only one that concerns our regions massively, but we are talking about strategic issues that also concern European Community policy. This applies both to mobility policy and to economic and security aspects. Innovation in cross-border trade requires an overall approach to rail and road and cooperation with the regions and the population. We are behind the population and the communities.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e25020	Mr Laimer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e25042	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to dedicate myself to the Citizens' Initiative on the introduction of a financial transaction tax. At present, it is the world's largest fraud and bribery scandal, the so-called Causa Odebrecht, which has been exposed these days thanks to courageous journalists, including from Austria. In this perfidious criminal case, 2 100 suspicions of money laundering as well as lubrication payments are in the focus of the investigations. The damage currently calculated resulting from the whitewashing, distribution and hiding of bribery money goes to billions. In the middle of this swamp, Austrian banks appear, including the Meinl Bank and the Raiffeisen Bank International, who seem to be involved in the scandal, as “profile” and ORF have published. Ladies and gentlemen, social compensation no longer works, which is to be read, among other things, in bizarre asset distribution. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] The richest, poor people, on the other hand, will persist in poverty, and the middle class, especially in Austria, fights with all power for it not to slip down. However, this can happen faster than one believes, for example now, in the Covid period, through indebted unemployment and mass redundancies. If one also takes away its catch-up network from the concerned, the free-case is preprogrammed. In order to guarantee stability, our state needs money. Through means of taxation, our infrastructure is maintained or also built up: Health, education, safety, mobility, national defence. The social market economy is currently becoming a grave. Capitalism is becoming more widespread, even with us on the former island of the Blessed. However, the deceptive thing about it is that it is broad under the cover of the social market economy and that this process is taking place insidiously but inexorably. We therefore need to introduce a financial transaction tax quickly and forcefully in order to return to a fairer distribution of assets. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I fully support and emphatically support the citizens' initiative, which is committed to the financial transaction tax, which should contribute to greater justice and to reducing the risks of financial crises. It is estimated that 1 trillion euros are implemented daily with financial transactions. Fight the speculators and all economic criminals because they endanger our freedom and our democracy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e25094	Members of Parliament have been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e25115	Mr President. High house! In many regions of Austria, there is a problem with the quality of road transport: It's about the toll flight from trucks. The federal roads are overburdened by this additional traffic – from this song we can sing many verses in the district of Liezen. More and more road users are trying to avoid traffic jams on the main roads, which makes traffic on the secondary roads in the It has multiplied in recent years. Especially for the anrainers, it is not reasonable if in one day, for example in my community of Irdning-Donnersbachtal, over 10,000 vehicles donate through the cores of the town. My dad is a truck driver and experiences a day-to-day risky overholstery – yes, because it's the most natural thing in the world that sometimes the patient will tear you if you have to drive behind a truck for miles. You want to get over sometime, I think every driver knows that. Road safety needs to be the top priority and there is still a lot of action to ensure a high quality, but above all – and much more importantly – safe road transport. We in the district of Liezen know what a fight it was that on the B 320 we had at least a tongue limitation for trucks. Our task is to create the legal framework for new action by the transport authorities so that they can prevent this unwanted toll. A revision of the road traffic regulations is therefore indispensable and highly at the time, in particular an addition to § 43 para. 1 STVO, so that more precise and easier possibilities are created to avoid toll refugees. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, it is about road safety and quality, taking into account the locals, municipalities and, above all, the regional economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e25164	Members of Parliament have been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e25185	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I should like to address the petition “more high schools for favorites”. In May, our Federal Minister Heinz Fässmann presented the school development programme 2020, with which we modernize schools throughout Austria, push digitalisation forward and ensure the range of day care. Throughout the country a number of new schools and extensions are planned, including in Vienna. However, what I think Vienna's favorites need is much more urgent, serious efforts and measures for successful integration. Violent outrages, as we have experienced in recent months, are absolutely unacceptable. For several days there have been conflicts between Turkish extremists and Kurds demonstrators, the result has been massive attacks, also against the police. This shows once again how strong parallel companies in Vienna are and what dangers they may face. This has not been earned by the people in favour of either the police or the police, so we will not allow conflicts from Turkey to be carried out violently on our streets. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] These dams are also the result of the failure of the Vienna city government to integrate. Education, as it stands in the petition, is a key to successful integration, but it is not the only one in Weitem. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e25228	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Can we come to the vote? FPÖ? Green? - Yes. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives to take note of its report 307 of the additions to petitions Nos 4 and 10 and of the Citizens' Initiatives Nos 2, 4, 8 and 9, 18, 21 and 22. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[21:35:15]] 19. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report on National Anti-Doping Agency Austria GmbH – BUND 2018/30 series (III6/357 d.b.) 20. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Court of Auditors on the Federal Sports Promotion System – series BUND 2019/14 (III-29/358 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e25286	We now come to the points 19 and 20 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I very much welcome the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors to the House. Mr Gahr is speaking on behalf of the European Democratic Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e25316	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) At a later hour, a report on federal sport promotion: The Court of Auditors has examined federal sport promotion from September to November 2017. There have been two priorities, on the one hand the support structures and on the other hand the award of funding. To this end, it can be said critically that the funding has often been granted as a so-called permanent support, which has led to some critical comments. The aim of this examination was four areas: the development of federal sport promotion, the analysis and assessment of the achievement of the goal, of course the identification of system weaknesses and improvement potentials, and the general concerns of transparency up to the role of officials in the decision-making bodies. A total of 40 recommendations were made by the Court of Auditors. He clearly concluded that the system of federal sport promotion is very strongly oriented towards the preservation of existing structures. There has been no doubt as to the economy and the reliability of the promotions, and of course also as regards further development and innovation. The Court of Auditors has particularly agreed – and this is what is going on – that there have been no women or few in decision-making functions. That's really a manko. For six managing directors, six supervisory councils and twelve members of the Commission, only one department was headed by one woman. That is why, I believe, clear: In the future, the decision-making bodies will also have to be equipped with women so that they can participate. The Court of Auditors has seen critically that there has been an involvement of representatives of the Association officials in the award and that there is a clear conflict of interest when officials themselves can be promoted. This is, in fact, an intolerable state; the Minister of State has also said in the Committee that there must be a new approach. Of course, it is true that, in particular, the larger associations are suing promotions, broadband in the field of sports promotion in Austria is actually too short, and there must be a wider spread in the future as far as the promotions are concerned. The aim is not only to preserve the support structures, but also to question and reorient sport promotion in Austria. In the future, the Federal Minister – and there are currently intensive efforts in this regard – wishes to improve federal sport promotion in three areas: in the area of the promotion of women, in the field of disabled sports and also in the field of anti-racism, this is a subject that must be taken into account in the promotion of sport. In summary, there are three clear orders for the future – the President mentioned this in her contribution –: There is a need for targeted promotion of sports in Austria, conflicts of interest are to be avoided, and association officials should not be involved in funding. Finally, one more request: Women must and should play a much better and more intensive role in the field of sport promotion. I think it's really time! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e25374	Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e25396	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! I will refer briefly to two reports: firstly to those about the Nad, the anti-doping agency, and then later to those for federal sports promotion. The anti-doping agency has fundamental tasks. Which are these? – We all know that it is performing doping controls, and one important point is prevention work. A new law should be in place by the end of the year, and there is already the approval of the international anti-doping agency – it is therefore completed. How does prevention work take place? – A key point of approach is youth, both in professional and in field sports. Trainings are carried out intensively and consciousness is formed. We connect doping controls with professional sports, but they also take place in fitness centers, for example. Why is that worth mentioning? – Because the anti-doping agency thus gets an overview of what happens in fitness centers, and so you can set specific measures. I referred to one point in the Committee because it is relevant and up-to-date: those of the Gendoping, and we wanted to know what measures are currently being taken. In this respect, we are assured that a ongoing process and an exchange will take place with the Ethics and Medical Commission. In short, Federal Sports Promotion: What are these promotions used for? – For trainer training, orientation of sporting events, establishment of sports infrastructure. The support system is based on two pillars: on the one hand on the budget the Ministry, on the other hand, on grants paid through the associations. The roof associations in Austria serve 14,000 clubs. Ladies and gentlemen, I think you all know examples: In recent months, many of these sports clubs have suffered serious losses. They couldn't do any events, and it's also difficult with the officials running away in crowds, and new ones are hard to win. I asked Mr Vice-Chancellor in the Committee whether there were already figures on funding available. We know that with stand mid-September 2 500 All in all, 55 million euros have been received or promised. As a group, we have really asked for the Vice-Chancellor to develop and present targeted support concepts to keep the associations – in particular sports clubs – vital, because we all probably do not want to imagine what it means if these associations are unable to comply with their work. As I said, the appeal is deposited, our support is fully given. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e25441	Member of the Committee of the Regions. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e25462	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Now I have to look at this from the front. That's another measure – and I've been really looking forward to the income today to see what it might look like about – which is just as pointless as it looks. I felt confirmed by the fact that today I received a call from someone who looked at me at home and said: You all look like a bunch of hendln in a leg battery with these bells of glass! – And so is it: Bring it nothing, and you're making fun of it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] It is again a great story of the ÖVP and the Greens that you put such things up here. Apart from that – which is now the reference to the Court of Auditors – I do not want to know what it cost. It won't be very much. Bringing it does nothing, because I have no contact protection at all – I don't need it either, I talk to the people normally – and if I want to talk to my neighbors on the left or on the right, I also refuse. So it is completely free of charge and costs, as I said, only a lot of money, Mrs Schwarz. [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: How about a mouth-nose protection?]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] This will also be one thing that can be explained: how much all these measures have really been; and as I said, the benefit is zero. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Madam President, thank you for the report on sport promotion which we have discussed in detail in the Committee. We know about the problem of sport promotion, which is very nested because sport is actually sponsored by three levels: the municipalities, the countries and the federal government. Of course, it is also an important dimension – if you see how little movement young people do today – that you achieve something with appropriate measures that naturally cost money. This is also a health-enhancing, preventive thing, because, as we children have played – often in a lot of dirt – we have in fact all been immunized and have survived many diseases. Today, it would be no harm if one left out the children more and perhaps did not constantly separate them with any hygiene spray in order to keep the child as clean and hygienic as possible, because this in fact costs immunity as well as Immunity. In this sense, thank you again for the report, Madam President. We'll see you at the next committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e25527	Mr Zanger, I may be able to inform you: I don't know if you heard it in the beginning, it's similar to the Swiss National Council, there's a health certificate there: It's not pointless. However, we can also assume that Members are responsible for their own actions and that they work as an example for the population. [[Congratulation of ÖVP and Greens.]] The next item is Mr Stögmüller's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e25557	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like Madam President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! This speech will now be hard to relate to. [[Cheerfulness of the speaker.]] I'm trying to get back to the business. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Zarits.]] There are two audit reports of the Court of Auditors. First of all, thank you very much for these test reports to your entire team, Madam President. It's about sports. These reports once again show that the Court of Auditors' reports are being taken seriously, because many of them have already been implemented, including in recent years. Sports and movement take a huge place in the lives of people in Austria. Sports is often associated not only with everyday life, but also with social contacts for many people and a balance to work. In order to have a wide range of sports for the people, there are many clubs and carriers that implement this offer. This requires financial resources, whether they are broadband or top-notch sports. This item on the agenda is now about two different Court of Auditors reports. One is the report on federal sport promotion, the second of the report on the National Anti-Doping Agency. A few points which I have noticed in these reports, however, I would also like to say critically, as the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors. Let's start with the federal sports promotions! My biggest criticism is that the BSFG 2013 and also the BSFG 2017 provide for a membership of representatives of the promoters in the decision-making bodies of the Bundes-Sport GmbH. The promoters therefore largely decide themselves on their own funding. This, of course, brings with it the legitimate criticism that conflicts of interest can arise in the award of federal sports promotions. I am very glad that our Sports Minister has already stated in the Court of Auditors that the problem is known and that we are considering what improvements would be possible. A second point, which draws through both reports like a red thread, is the low proportion of women. The increase in the proportion of women in their own bodies, both at Bundes-Sport GmbH and at the National Anti-Doping Agency, is urgently needed. The Nada, for example, hardly has women in their commissions. With the Ethics Commission and the Medical Commission, the proportion of women was just 20 percent. There were no women in the selection committee at all. What I am particularly pleased about is the commitment of the Minister of Sports to the Court of Auditors that the fact that no single woman is represented in a decision-making function in the Bundes-Sport GmbH is finally addressed and changed. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think that's welcome. This is particularly important because especially those sports in which women are very successful on the road – often much more successful than the male colleagues in this sport – are still very in the background, also in the media, public perception, and are promoted. This increase is at least a small but important step. I am also sure that a gender mainstreaming strategy will soon be developed in the award of funding, with which women and sports are not only seen as special projects but also actively promoted. I think that is important and necessary. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, I would like to come to another topic in the field of sport. What would please me would be if the focus was not only on the large ones – such as the ÖFB, which is clearly the largest beneficiary of funding at EUR 15 million in 2016 – but also on the small associations and associations. There would also be a need for targeted support. Why targeting? – Currently, the small associations and associations receive their funding from the umbrella associations. As a result, there is little possibility of giving federal funding to certain small associations. That would be a personal concern to me, especially as a speaker for honor and voluntaryness. There are so many who volunteer and volunteer into sports clubs, be it as a coach, as a Schiri, as a sportsman in and so on. This is also intended to be supported and to be used more specifically, not only for the top-level sport or the large associations. In particular, since the volume of sport promotion has increased considerably since 2000 and is significantly more than double the resources available, the focus should also be placed on this in the future. I'm also sure that our sports minister will like to take this up. – Thank you once again to you and to the Court of Auditors for this report.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e25646	Member of the European Parliament, Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e25667	Mr President. Madam President. Let me start by thanking you and your House very much for the three reports that are under discussion today. I will deal with two in particular. However, I would also like to thank those who have invited us and who have provided us with more information in the discussion, and also the Minister and Vice-Chancellor, who has been present and has given a very detailed opinion on all our questions. In advance, perhaps very briefly, to the Nad report, he was already mentioned by one, two previous speakers: This is a very encouraging assessment, particularly with regard to the demands of the Court of Auditors, because they have been implemented almost all, both by the Ministry and by the Nada. This is something very positive, which must also be emphasized, because we see that the work of the Court of Auditors is working as a High House, but it is also the work of the Court of Auditors. Less positive, I would say, is the second report, which we have also made very long and very intense, namely the report on federal sport promotion. There are far more comprehensive recommendations, all of which have not been implemented and have not been addressed. I do believe that this is to be mentioned and that, as a High House, we should also deal intensively with what it is all about. It's about the promotions on the one hand. The situation is, and the Court of Auditors has rightly criticised this in my view, that the Managing Director can encourage, disbursement, but the decision to support each of the A Commission agreement is needed. The absurdity is that this Commission will again be occupied with those who receive the funding, i.e. with the promoters, and thus a situation in which the promoter can decide independently whether or not to receive these subsidies, which one cannot really understand and with which, of course, the cat bites in the tail. The Court of Auditors has made very strong and very clear criticism of this. We have also made a request in the committee in accordance with § 27 and have tried to debate it. Unfortunately, he was rejected by the Greens, the SPÖ and the ÖVP without providing any justification. I am very sorry because I believe that this debate should also be held in the Court of Auditors' Committee, because it was a clear recommendation from the Court of Auditors. That is why we have brought this request back to us today. The second issue I would like to address – Mr Stögmüller has just explained – is that of women. It is true that in the Bundes-Sport GmbH neither in the management nor in the Supervisory Board nor in the two commissions is a single woman or was at the reporting time. That is, we have a quota of 0 percent of women – and that is, I think, quite embarrassing. This can and must be addressed in this way, and I hope that action will be taken as quickly as possible to improve this quota. Another topic is the funding cascade, i.e. the payment of funding at the federal level, which will then be paid to the umbrella and professional associations, which in turn will be paid independently to the lower organizations. This means that we, as Parliament, but also the Court of Auditors, and elsewhere, have no control over how these resources are handled, for which they are actually passed on. This too is a point which the Court of Auditors has criticized and which, unfortunately, has not improved so far. Finally, I would like to address the point of parallels. In the field of sport promotion, we have clearly and graphically well described the situation – the Court of Auditors has presented it – that sports promotion takes place at different levels, at federal level, at national level and also at local level, so that it is quite parallel promotions and we cannot understand them until then. This is due, among other things, to the fact that the transparency database is still far too little used by the other levels in particular. There is quite a potential to save, in order to be able to take in new, modern sports – we have heard from colleagues Stögmüller that sports promotion is very much linked to old structures – so that we can get more diversity in it and, accordingly, make sports wider. I think that's something that would be in our hearts. I should like to thank you, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, on behalf of our group - and, I believe, also partly of the other groups - for these reports and ask you to pass on this thanks to your House as well. I would also have an appeal to the Greens and generally to the government – but in particular to the Greens, since Vice-Chancellor Kogler is also responsible for sports: I really ask you, finally accept the topic of sports promotion and see that there is a modernisation in which in the end the individual athlete is really promoted and the money is not shipped into any large, bloated, mostly party-like devices! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e25728	The rapporteur was Mr Brandweiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e25752	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners at home in front of the screens! Sports connects, whether in school, where, in addition to physical activity, social contacts are also connected, or in leisure time, in clubs where children and young people learn respect and how to deal with each other while at the same time doing something good to their bodies. Of course, sports also belong to competitions, and there too is learned from a small age to sports fair and clean. Unfortunately, some athletes forget this on their way to top sports when it comes to beating others and being better. I am a passionate and enthusiastic spectator myself – whether in the Zwweider Sporthalle, when our Waldviertler Volleyballers dredging and bragging, or at the many TV broadcasts, when our top athletes fight for medals, titles and points. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] Our sports heroes have already provided many great moments, but unfortunately there are also less beautiful memories. As a result of the 2006 Doping scandal at the Winter Olympics in Turin, the National Anti-Doping Agency was founded in 2008. The basic tasks of the Nada include, in addition to the information and information about doping – of course with the aim of prevention – the initiation of procedures against persons who do not comply with the rules or where there is suspicion. Since the Nada is financed by federal funds, in November and December 2016 the Court of Auditors examined the Nada in terms of performance, economic situation, ownership rights and funding situation. In general, the cooperation of the Nada with the main owners – that is, the federal government and the federal states – was considered to be good. The essential recommendations, the promotions and billing documents as quickly as possible and compliance with reporting requirements are continuously improved and evaluated by both sides. That is why I would like to end by thanking the College of the Court of Auditors for the examination and the report, but also, of course, the employees of the Nada for their commitment to clean sports in Austria. Austria is a sports country with many great athletes, who not only provide us with many beautiful TV moments, but also ambassadors for our beautiful country on the world stage. All of us probably just recently joined us when Dominic Thiem won the US Open in tennis. These are headlines and memories that we like to enjoy, and of course great, fair athletes, which we can rightly be proud of.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e25798	Mr Köllner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e25819	The quarter-nine film is almost finished, everyone wants home, now we are still talking about the Court of Auditors report. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased personally, because this is how we finally have the opportunity – even if the competent minister is not here – to put sports in the foreground again. Before I get to that, let me add a few words to my colleagues, Kollross, who spoke on the citizens' initiative “Towards the wide-track”. This is very important to me personally, because thousands of people have signed against this monster project in the region of Nordburgenland and Lower Austria. Why? – Because they just want to maintain their quality of life. That this citizens' initiative is simply strangled down in the Committee on Petitions, I consider personally not only to be depressing, but even to be a matter of political concern for democracy. But now to the Court of Auditors report: Madam President, the Court of Auditors has taken a picture of the National Anti-Doping Agency and the Austrian Federal Sports Agency, and yes, it has to be turned at one screw or another to make it even more efficient so that the sports promotion funds arrive directly where they are used, namely at the clubs and at the athletes. Unfortunately, many great successes in Austrian sport have repeatedly been pushed into the background by blood bags, which is especially for those very, very bad who are doing clean sports. We must therefore not take a sheet in front of our mouth as far as doping is concerned. Is it proportionate to be able to make an essential sentence for a small theft in a grocery store, for systematic and repeated doping that harms the entire sport, but with conditional penalties? There is a need for clear, strict and uniform regulations at international level, because otherwise our Austrian athletes come to terms with the others. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the whole, however, highly professional work is being done at the Nadad and at the Federal Sports GmbH, which was founded by the former Minister of Sport Doskozil and the Sportdachverbands, to which the responsible party may be congratulated. Allow me a few more words about the Federal Government's decree. My former football coach has always said: You can make mistakes, but don't make the mistake twice! – Instead of making the game itself, the government team played the corona lead and is now running after it again, because it seemed more important to stand in front of the TV cameras at press conferences and stage themselves instead of finding simple and clear solutions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The result is that after the last announcement or regulation, there is the same uncertainty as in the spring. The population questions such as: When and where do I need the mask? How many people are allowed to participate in the yoga course? How is it going to the gyms, sports courts and so on? Many leisure sportsmen simply frighten this chaos – and that is quite logical if you can even be punished for it. They avoid the gym, yoga lessons and sometimes even outdoor sports. And this is happening right now, as the World Health Organization recommends us to make a strengthening of the immune system especially in times of pandemics sport and movement. The fact is, hardly anyone knows what's going on, but it certainly doesn't blame people, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e25883	Mr Kainz has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e25904	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Appreciate spectators at home in front of the screens! One thing before: I have a number of reports from the Court of Auditors in the past. and be surprised by the recommendations and proposals for improvement. I have never thought it possible for the audited bodies to take such careless action in relation to regulations. Unfortunately, I think that is such a report. The General Assembly held a meeting twice a year, but the Court of Auditors noted that the sitting information often lacked the decision-making, in particular with regard to the 2011 and 2012 budgets. The performance of the tasks of the board of trustees is also found to be inadequate. In 2012, 2013 and 2015, the quarterly curatorial meeting intervals were not observed. The Court of Auditors also critically assesses the fact that the Nada provided the managing director with a service car, which he could use privately, but without written agreement on the cost recovery of fuel and toll costs, as well as any transport penalties and costs for damage to the car. Furthermore, the Court of Auditors is also concerned with the resignation of the managing director in 2012. Finally, he agreed with the Ministry on a further salary payment of 11 months while at the same time exempting the service. The Court of Auditors considered this agreement to be extremely generous, and I can only agree with that because the examination of alternatives was definitely inadequate. What really surprises me: Why are there so many abuses? – In every small local community, there is a minimum set of municipal council meetings, each mayor also holds a meeting; the infinitely many local associations work out their actions in accordance with their statutes and carry it out properly. Ladies and gentlemen, I think there is a huge need for follow-up and organization, not only for the Nad itself, but also in the ministry. I therefore hope that the Court of Auditors' recommendations will be implemented as soon as possible to put an end to this chaos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e25949	Mr Prammer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e25971	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! Do you know the donors for breakfast flakes as they exist in hotels? These are so plexiglass cylinders with a wheel below which you can rotate. This then activates a spiral, holding the keys underneath and turning on the wheel until you have enough in the bowl. This is about the principle that sports promotion in Austria has worked in the past: Those who come first turn to Gusto as long as they want; those who are later at the buffet only get the rest. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] In contrast to this, we imagine the sports promotion system of the future as a food edition: You come with your bowl and get so much that you get full. Someone who needs to be piled up also gets enough for it; someone who has the opportunity to serve on other buffets, all the less. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is urgent that we create a system of sports promotion, in which the funds are really used for what they are intended for. This is, of course, the promotion of top sports, which makes Austria celebrate international successes and provides young athletes with the models they want to follow. But they are also the structures in broadband sports. In which every day thousands of people in In their leisure time, Austria is making it possible for children, young people and adults to be active on a voluntary basis and with a lot of commitment. It must also be used to ensure that, up to the most elementary level, there is the possibility to train exercise managers, trainers, referees, to teach functionalists knowledge and to obtain sports facilities and equipment. Just the recent difficult time has shown what enormous potential lies in the sports clubs – I mean not only in sports, they have proved that enough in the past –: Now it has been revealed how much creativity, courage, solution expertise and, above all, will to make possible there, from the respective federal associations down to the smallest associations. You can't say thank you enough. Thank you to all those who are involved and who do not give up, even if the external circumstances are now just anything but easy and require them very much. We will take this courage and initiative as a model, and with the Minister of Sport not only the recommendations of the Court of Auditors, for which I am very grateful here, I will continue to welcome and implement, but also make the system of sports promotion as good as it does in Austria, with the aim of: Every institution gets what it needs.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e26028	Mr Shetty is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e26049	Mr President. Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, My colleague Hoyos has already mentioned what our fundamental criticism of this federal sports promotion law is: It is not transparent, it favours the economy of friends and the waste of tax money, and this is also reflected in the Court of Auditors' report. In order to perhaps provide a very concrete, clear example of what is happening there for critical events – this is a current story, the “Falter” has reported about it, namely a request from us, and it concerns a matter that has happened a long time ago –: The last dictator of Europe, Aljaksandr Lukashenko, has spent a week in Austria at the invitation of the ÖOC, the Austrian Olympic Committee. All this was paid by the Austrian Olympic Committee – the EOC, which receives millions of sports promotions each year; the EOC, whose officials, must think of it, is sitting in the bodies that pay for sports promotion. This EOC has financed this luxury holiday. I think this example shows very clearly that we have a huge problem with transparency and structural corruption in the area of federal sports promotion. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The problem in the promotion of sports is that the money remains with the officials, in the functional levels, and does not come to those who really need it, namely, the sportsmen. Since the answers from Vice-Chancellor Kogler to this topic are rather perplexed, I have relatively little hope that there will be a change in federal sport promotion, but I have no hope, unfortunately, as far as – in order to hit the bridge – crisis management in sport during the Covid crisis is concerned. Mr Köllner already suggested: For example, confusion, uncertainty and chaos prevail in yoga, sports and dance studios. The companies did not know on Monday whether to lock them up at all. They had to combine the information on the various websites of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Sports, and it is still unclear whether sports and yoga courses fall under the terms of the event of the § 10 of the COVID-19 Act. – So that was a disastrous information policy. Today, a new regulation can be found on the homepage, which says that although this ten-person regime applies to yoga courses, it is possible to have several groups trained at the same time in large rooms if they do not mix. What that means is whether they mix or not is still unclear. On the basis of which this statement rests, whether it is based at all on a legal or regulatory basis, is further unclear. Here, and already at the first lockdown or in the first phase of the crisis, there is absolute arbitrary and sense-free action. For example, it is now the case that 100 people are allowed to gather in a small room in a fitness centre, but in a large yoga studio no more than ten people are allowed to attend a course at the same time. I'll tell you one thing: I can't imagine that this arrangement will be in front of the Constitutional Court if a single case is really carried up to the Constitutional Court. We said at the end of May – and this is annoyed by me especially with regard to the Vice-Chancellor and responsible sports minister – it needs customized solutions for sports. We have warned that in October, when the second wave threatens, we will need solutions that must be different from those in March and April, because in the cold season we cannot escape into the open. It is also very important to me to say that in sport, we must not ignore these collateral damage, these negative effects, if yoga studios, gyms, gyms, sports studios. We have already said at that time that it can and will be a threat to the existence of many SMEs and small businesses if they are put before such unclear rules. I would like the Minister for Sports to put his attention on tailor-made solutions, to put more emphasis on distance rules instead of on people's limits. It really makes me angry that, four months after we first drew attention to it, we are again facing the point that no new solutions are available. I wonder – just as Mr Loacker has already said on other points: What have the experts done over the last four months? [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Smoking.]] It is also important to me to say, especially in the sports sector – the vice-channer is not here now –: It is not about making him or members of the Federal Government bad, but the resentment and anger among those concerned are really huge. I just made calls from yoga and sports studios on the weekend with many operators. They don't know each other anymore. They're really done because they didn't expect what happened in March and April to happen again. That is why I would like to make an appeal to the Minister of Sports or to those responsible in the Ministry of Sports: Please find clear, tailored solutions, because otherwise we will really experience that quite a lot of these small and medium-sized enterprises will be destroyed in their existence!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e26134	Member of the Tsarits has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e26155	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear sports friends, if you still watch the television sets, I can welcome you very warmly! I believe that the Court of Auditors' report on sport promotion has been discussed very differently today and that there are different assessments. I would like to take the opportunity, as a sports speaker of the largest group here in the House, the People's Party, to thank the volunteer very much. In a challenging time, in the Corona era, it was just the volunteers who maintained the structures of sports and did a lot of things. 2.2 million hours of work are volunteered in 15 000 clubs and 580 000 volunteers are active in the sports sector. Thank you very much for that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to say thank you because it is not a matter of course that the athletes, the officials and officials have kept to the rules and very, very, very many concepts have worked out at the club level. They have also contributed very, very much to the fact that the crisis was better handled in Austria at that time than in other countries. They have also contributed a lot to the fact that the risk has not been taken from sport. An appeal to all those who are sports enthusiasts, to all who are members of the sports clubs: Please stay true to your club! The associations need each member, the clubs need every single member's contribution. Please stay faithful to your club and support the clubs! In the last few weeks and months, we have decided on many sports projects here in Parliament. I remember the NPO funds with a volume of 700 million euros, I also remember the funds for the sports leagues in the professional field, with which we secured the clubs and also the profilers. We have also managed here in the House to adapt provisions on the Prae to the current situation, and in good discussions with Federal Minister Heinz Faßmann, we have managed to get the sport and the movement back to school. A warm thank you for that! It is mainly due to the expertise of our associations that the Covid-19 lockout regulations have been implemented exemplaryly, namely with a variety of prevention concepts. In the crisis, however, one has shown itself to me, namely how efficient and committed and professionally organized sports in Austria. The uniqueness of our honorary office is the undisputed argument for the autonomy of Austrian sport. The sports sector with its specifications is therefore not comparable to any other funding areas in Austria. As a People's Party, we stand for the autonomy of sports and naturally want to strengthen the autonomy of sports. The review period of the current Court of Auditors report is before the entry into force of today's law on sport promotion. Many of my previous speakers have so far been put into effect. I am thinking, for example, of priorities in the funding area such as the federal programme for children moving healthyly. How is the funding going today, since the year 2017, when there have been improvements? – The Federal Minister gives priority to funding. The Management Board, appointed by the Minister of Sport, develops the funding programmes on this basis. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Commission will then have to release it, but if it does not The final decision is to be reached by the Supervisory Board, which has the same status and in which the Minister of Sport has the right to conduct. In any event, it should be stressed that each promoter must also present an association concept, which must also be discussed with the management. I would like to stress that funding needs to have clearly defined objectives and that of course the funding programme needs to be clearly demonstrated. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also positive to mention that in recent years, the sports sector has been considerably lagging behind in the billing of funding. It is also very positive to mention that federal sports funding has increased in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, two million members in 15 000 associations throughout Austria, 570 000 of them children and young people, 80 million euros of association support: That means 40 euros per member, and I think this support is also justified. What we still learn from the report is that we need a better coordination between the various promotions, such as municipal funding, state support and federal funding. On the side of the sport, it is also suggested that the Bundes-Sport GmbH should be a central resolution point in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe it has been shown during the difficult time in recent months that we need the expertise of experts from sports to further develop the sport and autonomy of sports. This is also enshrined in the government programme, and I am good things that we will do this. A warm thanks to all those who volunteer for sports. I think we've been on a good track since 2017. Since the Court of Auditors' report many improvements have already been implemented into reality. I think it was a good tradition in Austria that there was a dialogue between politics and organized sports. This will continue to exist in the future and sport will be designed and developed in agreement in Austria. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e26234	The President of the Court of Auditors has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e26256	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Honourable Members! I am grateful for the fact that a debate has now taken place on the two reports of the Court of Auditors on sport, which were also held in the Court of Auditors' Committee last week, namely the reports on Nad GmbH and the system of federal sports promotion. Of course, the Court of Auditors also knows that sport has a huge social significance and that it has a lot of stakeholders, whether we are talking about top or long-distance sports. The topic of the autonomy of sport has already been addressed as a specific feature of federal sport promotion. Against this background, we have looked at and examined the system of this sport promotion. We have examined how the funding is distributed to the promoters, whether funding accounting control works – I can say that we have really identified weaknesses in this regard, for example at the level of the ministry – and whether there are system weaknesses, such as in the form of conflicts of interest or parallel structures. Sport is financed – you know – from the general budget on the one hand, and on the other hand very much from gambling revenue, that is to say, 82.7 million euros in 2017. The larger part of this funding is granted by Bundes-Sport GmbH. The funds increased very strongly, by 153 percent in the years 2000 to 2017. In view of the amount of resources available, the Court of Auditors is concerned with the transparent design of sport funding and the efficient allocation of funding. We have found that the Ministry often lacked the overview of who ultimately benefited from the funding. The transparency database has only helped because the final recipients are not listed and not visible. The funding landscape in the area of sport itself is strongly fragmented and difficult to see. There are similar priorities in all areas, including between the Ministry and the Bundes-Sport GmbH and then between the local authorities, because countries and municipalities also strongly promote sport. It is therefore all the more important, in the Court's view, that there is a coordination of support activities and that the risk of multi-funding and inefficient use of resources be minimized as far as possible. Something that we have naturally raised very strongly when we examine the system of federal sport promotion is the question of system-immanent conflicts of interest. What do we understand about it? – We understand among them the involvement of representatives of promoters, for example, in the form of the Federal Sports Organisation in the decision-making bodies of the Bundes-Sportförderungsfonds and the Bundes-Sport GmbH. In fact, the funding concept and awarding take place in the main sphere of influence of the promoters. As we repeat our constant recommendation not to transfer co-decision to promoters, but to limit them to a consultative function. We have also seen in the billing check that this is often not met with the necessary repressiveness. Generally speaking, we welcome the fact that through the new Sports Promotion Act, the Ministry has the role of the Strategy Provider. This role must, of course, be filled out and the control competence must be used. The Bundes-Sport GmbH is to become a single resolution centre for sport at the federal level, which is still to be implemented in practice and, so to speak, transferred the funds to it. The central criticism point – which is of course important – concerns an adequate representation of women in the sports bodies. Women were and are extremely underrepresented in all decision-making functions in the sports sector. We have clearly criticized the fact that neither in the Supervisory Board nor in the Executive Board nor in the Commissions of the Bundes-Sport GmbH a woman was represented – all the bodies were exclusively men-occupied. In the demand process, we received positive feedback. I hope that the report on the system of federal sport promotion will trigger something. In the Nada report, I would like to refer exclusively to the question procedure, including the discussion within the Committee. We have seen that there is a serious attempt from the management of the Court of Auditors to comply with all the Court of Auditors' recommendations in terms of efficiency and transparency. I would also like to highlight this positively, because the Nada is an important national body in the field of doping control, prevention and also doping tracking. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e26311	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Before we go into the voting process, I ask the clubs if they are all ready. - Okay. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 19: Request of the Court of Auditors to take note of the report concerning National Anti-Doping Agency Austria GmbH, III6 of the Supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 20: Proposal from the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on the system of federal sports promotion, III-29 of the supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[22:29:22]] 21. Point Report of the Court of Auditors of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on Federal Services' Disciplinary Services – series BUND 2019/48 (III73/359 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e26377	We are now coming to Agenda item 21. There was no oral reporting. The first is Mr Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e26405	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I can start with a positive message: After more than 13 hours of sitting, we have now reached the last item on the agenda – I see with some Members relieved faces. That is why in the short term: Now, as already announced, it is about the disciplinary system for federal servants. The Court of Auditors has examined this discipline in four ministries. What's this about? – The basis for the public service is civil service law and contract staff law. We know about Pragmatization in civil service law. A service relationship can only be resolved if there is a criminal prosecution or if there are disciplinary measures that are examined by a Disciplinary Commission. What was the main criticism of the Court of Auditors? – The Court of Auditors has complained that there has been a fragmented structure – in the individual ministries there have always been separate disciplinary committees – and the Court of Auditors’ central request was to ensure a uniformity. I should like to conclude by saying: "The central recommendation to the Federal Ministry of Public Service and Sport, in the sense of professionalization, quality improvement, uniform utilization, uniform case law and cost transparency, to provide for the concentration of the disciplinary procedure at a central disciplinary commission, was adopted in the framework of the 2nd annual report. Service Law Novelle 2019, BGBl. I 58/2019, implemented.’; There's nothing to add to that. There was good cooperation between the government, the Court of Auditors and Parliament. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to thank all employees in the public service at the federal, national and local level. There is also scientific evidence on this, namely the World Bank public sector performance index: Among 135 countries, we have 16th place, which is very pleasing. – Thank you for the attention and a nice evening.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e26444	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e26465	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Mr President. I too would like to thank the President-in-Office very much for the Court of Auditors' report. The officials of the Republic are, of course, in a special loyalty to the State. The number of officials has fallen, but the number of disciplinary organs has not been reduced, and this is also criticized in the Court of Auditors report. However, this has been fixed by the Service Law Novelle 2019. Nevertheless, the working world of officials in recent months has not become worse, but has not improved, because the particular loyalty to the Republic must not be a one-way road. Of course, officials also have the right to have confidence in the Republic, but since the Turkish government has built up its rule, the networks and rope companies that decide on the careers of officials have become closer and more skrupellos. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] I would also like to give a specific example of how people are dealt with: Mr F. works in the Ministry of Education. He is an official with great commitment and diligence. In his spare time he wrote this book, which is a standard work for all who deal with university laws. [[keeping a book entitled “The Austrian University Law 2005” high]] He is what you really call coryphae. It is not surprising that Mr F. applied for the post as Vice-Chairman of the Vienna University of Education. He has also been elected by the University Council to become the best candidate, and the University Council is the body which also has the legal proposal. In itself, it is only a matter of form for the Ministry to accept this proposal – but now it becomes very difficult: The Ministry did not agree. An external opinion has been ordered – an opinion on a paper that is very poor and for which only 600 euros have been spent – and then suddenly the turquoise miracle has happened: Although the staff representatives of the university teachers, the staff representation of the administration, the college, the working group on equal treatment issues and the rector of the University of Education Vienna have delivered an opinion that Mr F. is clearly the best official for this job, Mr. Fäsmann decides on the name that has been given on the paper. I think the officials have the nose full of these processes and machinations and do not need discipline by turquoise, but fairness and objective appreciation of their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e26514	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e26535	Mr President. Madam President. High house! It is about the discipline of the federal government; it has already been said a lot. Thank you once to the Court of Auditors, to you and your team, for the comprehensive report. [[in the direction of President of the Court of Auditors Kraker]] The keyword is a uniform Federal Disciplinary Authority. This is long necessary and was planned with 1.7.2020; now it comes with 1.10.2020 – that was postponed because of Corona. Until now, there is no business breakdown. One may be excited how it goes with the Federal Disciplinary Authority in seven days. It is clear from the report that more written warnings or instructions have been made on account of the breach of duty in the bagatelle sector. There is only one problem: They are not entirely in line with the rule of law. The Federal official has no right to complain or appeal against it. He can only write an opinion on the written reminder made in his personal data. This is not entirely in line with our legal order. I have tried in committee to draw the attention of the Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Staff. I didn't feel that he understood it so well. I'm not expecting any great changes. We will, however, see to it that we can also create clarity in this area for the many Federal officials, and in the near future we will make one or another request in this direction. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e26571	Mrs Blimlinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e26593	Mr President. Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! Thank you very much for this report by the Court of Auditors on all discipline. Let me mention a few numbers: In the Federal Ministry of Education, Science and Research alone, there have been 33 service authorities, ten Disciplinary Commissions with 57 Senates; this is due to universities and schools. In the Ministry of Finance there were 63 service authorities and only one disciplinary commission with three Senates. Some of you know that I am a historian, therefore briefly on the disciplinary right of officials, because this is fundamentally different from labour law: This was introduced in 1914 with the pragmatism of the service; before that, the official – even the officials – had already existed before 1914, although very few, but still – was subjected to some sort of inquisition process because they had no way of defending themselves. In the field of service pragmatism, the disciplinary law has been introduced, which has been based on the rules of the disciplinary law of the judges, which already dates back to 1868. It has progressed ever further, but the really essential change came in 1979 with the Civil Service Law, when the disciplinary law no longer referred to obligations of office and standing, but to the duty of service. Among officials and officials, the story is still being told that in the 1980s section heads who came to the Ballhausplatz by bicycle have been instructed to be disciplined that this is not possible under the law of the state. Thank God everyone today can come by bicycle, which does not violate any duty of service. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The result of this audit is the establishment of a central authority. The Court's recommendations have been largely followed. ==References====External links== Service law Novelle 2019 established, it is now also occupied. We will see how this Federal Disciplinary Authority develops and will accompany it. Officials, officials know, a disciplinary procedure is not really funny. The instrument of admonition and teaching always reminds you a little of the school situation, and you should actually get more into an adult situation as an official. So there will also be a need for reform in the future from my point of view. By the way, I am in favour of the change of name to Richard-Wadani-Kaserne. I wish you a nice evening.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e26647	Mrs Kraker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e26668	High house! The report on the disciplinary system of the Federal Services has now been briefly discussed. It is true that there is the Federal Disciplinary Authority, we see that as implementation. However, I would like to address one point, which is the subject of different treatment of officials and contract staff in the event of a breach of service. For contract staff, there is a classified list of sanctions and formal disciplinary law applies only to officials. However, the Federal Government is increasingly using contract staff to perform tasks. The number of officials is declining and the number of contract staff is increasing at the same time. Thus, the issue of the applicability of disciplinary law depends on the date of entry into service. It therefore raises the question of a uniform right of discipline for all public servants, with, of course, systematic considerations on how to bring both systems together. In this context, I also recall that many government programmes repeatedly call for a uniform right of service for officials and contract staff. However, implementation is still pending. That's why I'm asking: What actually prevents you from using a uniform cross-border right of service for all public servants? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e26702	No one has been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Before we come to the vote, I ask again: Are everyone ready? - That's the case. We shall then proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-73. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The agenda is exhausted. [[22:43:48]] Vote on a request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e26747	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by Mr Fuchs, Mr Krainer, Mr Doppelbauer, Mr President, to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure for reporting on Amendment 421/A. In September 2020, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the protection of their personal data. I ask the ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. [[22:44:20]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e26774	There is a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the Official Protocol on Agenda items 1, 2, 6, 9, 11 to 13, 15 and 17 so that these parts are deemed approved at the end of the sitting. I read: Agenda item 1: ‘The referral request Annex 1/I is rejected [...].’ ‘The draft law, in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 370 of the Supplements, shall be adopted at second reading in separate vote and at third reading [...], taking into account the amendment proposal. The application for a referendum Supplement 1/III is rejected.’ Agenda item 2: ‘The draft law is adopted in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 371 of the second and third reading supplements.’ Agenda item 6: ‘The amendment Annex 6/1 is rejected [...]. The draft law is adopted in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 361 of the Supplements in second [...] and third reading [...].’ Agenda item 9: ‘The amendment Annex 9/1 is rejected [...]. The draft law is adopted in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 364 of the Supplements in second [...] and third reading [...].’ Agenda item 11: ‘The draft law will be adopted in the second and third readings in 366 of the Supplements to the Committee’. Agenda item 12: ‘The draft law will be adopted in the second and third readings in 367 of the Supplements to the Committee’. Agenda item 13: ‘The draft law is adopted in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 368 of the second and third reading supplements.’ Agenda item 15: ‘The draft law contained in application 832/A is adopted at second and third readings [...].’ Agenda item 17: ‘The draft law is adopted in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 372 of the second and third reading supplements.’ Are there any objections to the version or contents of those sections of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. These parts of the Official Protocol are therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. [[22:46:31]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e26882	I am entitled to announce that, at today's meeting, self-employed applications 833/A(E) to 903/A(E) have been submitted. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 22.47 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
