ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e4334	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Federal Government! Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! All Ministers, Ministers and State Secretary! Values Media Representatives and Values Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the televisions! I'll get the 60. Declaration by the National Council on Openness. [[09:08:31]] Address by the President on the occasion of the terrorist attack in Vienna
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e4358	We've all been hit in the market by the cowardly and staunch terrorist attack in the city center of Vienna. Many of us have not considered it possible for Islamist terror to reach our doorstep. For a long time bloody attacks have been in Vienna. In these difficult hours, all our compassion, our participation before all the victims and their relatives. With the arbitrary selection of the victims, the defendant wanted to meet our society as a whole. That was a planned attack on our free society, our values, our way of life, on our democracy. But we must not allow hatred to split our society. Austria has just been a grown, a strengthened, open, liberal democracy, and all levels of society. We will defend this democracy with all the means we need, and we are all stronger than hatred and terror, and we will never and never be allowed to leave the way of the rule of law. He who believes he can intimidate us is wrong. Our democracy is a defensive one. As much as the pictures of this horror have burned into our memory, so much should we always remember how great the overwhelming Cohesiveness of our society in those hours was and immediately became apparent and visible – whether it were for the forces who had bravely put themselves in the way of the defendant, without hesitation, and despite the life-threatening and inconspicuous situation from all the federal states on the fastest way to Vienna to support their colleagues; whether it were with those operators of hotels and restaurants who did not lock the doors but provided protection to people; whether it were with the passersby who cared for the victims under the greatest risk of life and thus selflessly put their own lives at risk to save their fellow human beings. We can rightly be proud of this country and its people – and I am proud of this country and its people. I am also proud that all political leaders, including all those who take decisive positions in social life, have put the common responsibility ahead of the parting. I am grateful that Austria received as much international support at all levels as it also wanted to express to all of us Bundestag President Wolfgang Schäuble in a letter. It is a matter of ‘remarking’ the need to ‘intensify security cooperation in the European Union’. Pressing Union to be able to ‘even more decisively oppose the fanatical enemies of our kind’ – says Wolfgang Schäuble in his long letter. That's why I'm appealing: In the coming discussions, let us choose our words with care and consideration, not because we spare the political competitor, but because we as elected representatives must always be clear that today we also see those who do not think well with our free society! Of course, there is a need for comprehensive, careful and thoughtful processing of all circumstances. But with every understanding of an intensified rhetoric, I appeal to you all not to insure people in addition by your public statements and not to endanger the security of Austria in this delicate situation – after all, we all took an oath on our laws. Not the het brings us on, but the common. The common spirit should in the best possible future prevent these actions. I would ask you to rise and remember the victims of the terrorist crimes of Paris, Nice and Vienna. [[Those present rise from their seats and persist for some time in silent mourning.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e4411	We have agreed in the President that all Members of this House will find a place in the plenary room, but at the same time the gallery and the roof foyer are open. Thus, the media, especially the photographers, have the opportunity to use the gallery. Before voting, consultation shall be held with the club members. You know the health authorities' recommendations. The official protocols of 55 and 56. Meeting of 14. October 2020 and 57th, 58th and 59th respectively. ==References== October are in the Parliamentary Directorate and have not been challenged. The Members of Parliament are prevented today. Michael Hammer, Andreas Kühberger, Dr. Reinhold Lopatka, Alexander Melchior, Josef Muchitsch, Dr. Susanne Principal, Mag. Gerald Hauser, Ing. Norbert Hofer, Mag. Christian Ragger, Mag. Philipp Schrangl, Mag. Faika El-Nagashi, David Stögmüller and Dipl.-Ing. Olga Vogluwer. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e4486	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e4660	I can announce that ORF 2 will be given over to the meeting by 1 p.m. and that ORF III will forward the meeting in full. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e4678	A consensus was reached between the members of the Presidential Conference on the design and duration of the debates. According to § 57 para. 3 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure a day block time of 3 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: ÖVP 59, SPÖ 41, FPÖ 33, Green 30 and NEOS 24 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club, 12 minutes, per debate 5 minutes. First, German chancellors and vice chancellors will make a statement, and then a round of club members will take place. The Federal Minister for the Interior and the Federal Minister for Justice then took the floor. This statement follows on from the other Members' debates. The sum of the speaking time of the members of the Federal Government should not exceed 40 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft and the speaking times that have just been presented. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Let's go into the agenda. [[09:16:11]] 1. Point Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on "Terror attack in Vienna"
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e4731	Following the declarations, a debate will be held within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure in accordance with the request submitted. I can give the floor to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e4760	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Estimated Austrians! Dear spectators and spectators of this Parliament meeting! The brutal terrorist attack that took place in Vienna on Monday continues to cast a dark shadow on our Republic. Our compassion – and I am not speaking alone, but, as I think, for all of us – applies to the victims and their families, to the four defenseless civilians who have been killed from close proximity cold-blooded, but also to the many injured who are sometimes seriously injured and of whom some still live around their lives. Our thanks go to the forces who had to do their service on this terrible night – often using their own lives – to ensure our safety. First of all, I would like to thank the young policeman, who courageously put himself in the way of the suspect and was seriously injured himself. I was allowed to visit him with the Minister of the Interior at the AKH yesterday, and it was impressive to see that, despite the serious injury, he did not lose his love of his service as a police officer and told us that he could hardly expect to return to service. However, I would also particularly like to thank the Special Forces of Special Units, especially the Weda, which managed to turn the defendant off after 9 minutes and thus could prevent worse. In addition, I would also like to thank all Austrians and all those who live in our country who have grown beyond their borders in this difficult situation and who have supported fellow humans, have provided injuries, or have also supported the police in their investigations with mobile videos. Thank you all very much in this very difficult hour for the Republic. Such a barbaric, Islamic terrorist attack rightly affects us all, for we all will never be able to understand that there are people who hate our society, security, freedom, democracy, all so much that they are willing to kill innocent people. That is why we must now act all the more quickly and consistently to combat extremism and the underlying ideology with all its strength. We will certainly not make the mistake of splitting ourselves as a society. We will not conjure up conflicts between Christians and Muslims, between Austrians and migrants, because these are not the dividing lines. All the people who are good will, no matter what origin or religion, are the enemies of these barbarians who wish for war and violence. All of us, ladies and gentlemen, must therefore also fight with full determination and without compromise against these enemies of our free society. That's our job. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] What it takes for the first time is full education and the persecution of the guilty. The Minister of the Interior and the security forces of the Republic are working with all the means available to fully clarify the act, including the transfer of possible rearmen and like-minded persons. I am grateful for the rapid house searches and the first arrests have taken place. We informed the National Security Council yesterday about progress. We need to find out who radicalized the perpetrator, whether he had helpers and supporters, and also what networks this act see positively and are family perpetrators in the spirit. All those who practice such acts, but also those who support these actions, as well as all those who welcome such acts, are the enemies of our democracy, are the enemies of our free society. Secondly, of course, prevention is also needed. We cannot and will not allow there to be structures and parallel societies on Austrian soil that hate our Republic and work actively against our constitution. In Austria, we need a better approach to dealing with known hazards. The case of the defendant last Monday shows it very clearly: The Austrian authorities, from justice to police to constitutional protection, do not always have the legal means to monitor Islamic extremists and other hazards and, if necessary, to preserve or sanction them. It is understandable to the least people that someone who wanted to join the IS in Syria will be released from prison early and can live largely unlit among us, just because he falsely pretends to have turned away from terror. [[Abg. Belakovich: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Kickl: The wrong information continues!]] Such situations must not be repeated. I am grateful to the competent ministers, the Minister of the Interior, but also the Minister of Justice, for having started talks on this matter, how we can further improve our system together. This includes, ladies and gentlemen, a reform of the BAT, of course. The Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Anti-Terrorism has suffered massive damage in recent years for various reasons. This damage must now be repaired. I am grateful to the Minister of the Interior for working with the necessary care, but at the same time determined to strengthen the BAT again, to rehabilitate internationally and to clarify possible failures in a complete manner. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] In addition to the BAT, the Documentation Centre for Political Islam must also play a crucial role in detecting extremist associations and dissolving them in cooperation with the security forces. I would like to thank the Minister for Integration Susanne Raab for her work, because this project is already being seen as an example internationally in many countries. Most recently, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the information and prevention, it needs international cooperation, especially, of course. Islamist terrorism is connected internationally and is equally dangerous everywhere. Especially in Europe, we face a major challenge that we can only deal with together. All of us are dealing with the same questions, namely: How can we prevent terrorists from entering illegally and then, as last in Nice, commit murders? How do we deal with extremists who have left or wanted to leave Europe to murder in Syria or Iraq, and who have fought for or wanted to fight for ISIS? How do we deal with those who have returned now in prison, but perhaps they will be released from prison in the foreseeable future? – They are all ticking time bombs for our society, not only in Austria, but throughout Europe. In the European Union, we must be united and united in order to fight the enemies of our life model everywhere at the same time. I would like to thank all the Heads of Government who have expressed their solidarity with us over the last few days and who want to lead this fight together with us. I am glad that we were able to agree with Emmanuel Macron, but also with the head of the EU Commission, that we will hold discussions in the next week to vote on a common approach in this area. A broad European alliance must be created out of these talks so that terror can be fought decisively in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that the time we are currently experiencing is challenging in many areas. I understand everyone in fear, sorrow, but maybe anger. At the same time, however, we should be grateful for living in a strong Republic of Austria, in a society in which people are there for each other, in a society that cannot be divided even in difficult times, and in a society that will have the strength to deal with all these challenges and fight against threats together. We promise you that, as a Federal Government, we will continue to work tirelessly to deal with these crises in the best possible way, both the fight against terrorism and the fight against the corona virus. The year 2020 is definitely not a simple year, but I am sure that this year, too, these challenges as the Republic of Austria will survive well and as a society will even emerge from this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e4824	I thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic for his statement and may give the floor to Mr Vice-Chancellor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e4845	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Members! Estimated Members on the Government Bank! Dear Austrians and all who live in Austria! Yes, our Austria has been shaken by a shocking terrorist act in the last few days, on Monday evening. These are acts of violence that we have experienced in our federal capital, Vienna, as we have known them so far only from news from other parts of the world and Europe. The last terrorist attacks in Austria are already very, very long ago. But the feeling is of course distressing when you move around the city center for example and especially close to the attack sites, where people have been killed recently and many have been injured. This feeling will probably stay for a long time. The thoughts of the victims will also remain long; and I too can express that I am still with these people with my thoughts: the victims who are by the way different nationality and origin that have been torn out of their lives or now carry many wounds, physical and also psychological, with them. So all our compassion applies to relatives, families, friends, those who mourn for their loved ones, and those who have had to fear for the victims or still have to. [[Congratulation with Greens, ÖVP, SPÖ and NEOS.]] However, I would also like to highlight the rescue forces in general, the police, including the members of the special units, the firemen, the doctors and also the federal army members, who, partly using their lives on Monday evening, quickly provided for the safety and care of the people. I would also like to express my great thanks and my great appreciation for to express this enormous and co-existent commitment. [[Congratulation with Greens, ÖVP, SPÖ and NEOS.]] However, I and we would also like to thank those who have demonstrated civil courage and cohesion in these minutes and in the dramatic hours thereafter – and I would not like to mention this, including many with migration backgrounds that have helped directly on the spot without hesitation – those who have endured disciplinedly, and those who have opened their doors to those who needed a safe place, whether it was the concert halls, the locals or even those who have opened their apartments. In this spirit of cohesion and solidarity, we can deal with serious crises together, and that is what is now necessary in many ways and in the near future. The international dimension has been addressed, and I would like to express that it is an encouraging feeling of experiencing the great participation from all over the world, which is truly of solidarity, whether by Heads of State or Government or by high-ranking international personalities. For example, I was very touched when I watched on television that in Paris the Eiffel Tower was irradiated red-and-white-red and also sent similar signs of solidarity in other European metropolises. But also in Austria, I feel that, here in Parliament and among the citizens, there is this participation. It is also encouraging to see and hear how many people in Austria are appealing to cohesion – because we cannot be divided. We don't want and we won't let that happen either. In particular, we do not allow our path of peace, freedom and democracy to be reduced by the violence and violence of glorified ideology with all that belongs to it, fundamental rights and fundamental values. These values and attitudes are a strong foundation, and in this context I am sure that it is an unshakable foundation. [[Congratulation with Greens, ÖVP, SPÖ and NEOS.]] But now to the event itself: There is nothing that can justify such an attack – nothing at all! – and nothing that can relativize him. Therefore, as the Federal Government, we will respond consistently, determinedly and wisely to this attack; consistently in the preparation of what happened and how it could happen – first of all, because it should not be different than that such a thing is being worked out and clarified, but also second, to learn from it when mistakes have happened, without premature debt allocations. That is why the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior will set up an independent committee of inquiry to evaluate the events and the administrative measures before the attack, a period covering not only a few days, but the entire period that is relevant here. And the consequences will also be drawn out of it and the corresponding consequences will be drawn. Regardless of that, but also now determined in the fight against terrorism and the prevention of violence. This will require action, but it will also require resources that we provide, including employees in the competent authorities – I would like to mention in particular the BAT and the LVTs, i.e. the Offices for Constitutional Protection and Terrorism – in order to support them in this work. That's one. At the same time, we need to re-start and realign these institutions, especially the BAT, in the centre of these reforms. Yes, I say It's quite open, I'm not the only one anyway: There will also be abuses to be eliminated there. We need – and we strive to do so – a well-functioning, rule-of-law, anti-terrorism protection, i.e. a counter-terrorism, which ensures surveillance, rapid intervention, as well as a clear and immediate transfer of information to the public prosecutor's office and the judicial system. Again: I am grateful to all of those – and I believe they are distinguished by size – who do not make premature debt allocations now, yes, but of course, as it turns out, there will be some clarification, and we will also identify mistakes and possibly those who are responsible for mistakes there. It will have to be so, it will not be different in this situation at all. There's the first one that shows with his finger again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schnedlitz.]] I'm not surprised that this is from the blue group. It doesn't surprise me! You're sitting right there! Don't light us with your calls now, the situation is too serious! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] We need reason, therefore, because we do not want to draw any premature false conclusions from it – some would say that temptation is resisting – and we may then be ourselves, who then question democratic fundamental rights in this procedure. We don't want to. In fact, it is true that the terrorists want to do so, and in this case we should not touch because the terrorists pursue exactly that goal of splitting, creating insecurity and dividing society. These are all obstinate, these are our free way of life, but they are in truth based on our fundamental rights and values, and they can and must not be questioned. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schnedlitz.]] In any event, the task of the investigating authorities and the independent judicial system must be to clarify this act comprehensively and without delay, to disclose all links and backgrounds, to identify and to take responsibility for possible agents, at least complications and backmen. We will jointly defend our fundamental and freedom rights – and that will succeed, for Austria is a democracy, with firm, if you want almost unshakable foundations. Our values can and will not be put out of power by this attack, they cannot be shaken. In this situation, we will now be more than ever on this common basic consensus of a liberal – a liberal! – Building democracy; as far as we can: with more cohesion, with more respect. I hope that many will do just that, while respecting these basic democratic values. In any case, there will be a need for determined action against those who want to destroy that by force. I think that is the strongest rejection of those terrorist murderer gangs, of these extremist, totalitarian and violent ideologies. This is the best reaction and the strongest rejection. [[Congratulations on Greens, ÖVP and NEOS.]] Yes – and it is true of course – we are at the moment highly demanded as a society and as a community; it is an extraordinary time. Who would have thought a year ago, what events will all be happening here in Austria. This attack is happening to us at a time that is already very stressful for many, if not all citizens. In Austria – now again, in Europe and all over the world, we are fighting a pandemic, as we have not yet experienced it in our lifetime, it is actually a pandemic like for a hundred years, and now terrorism is still leaving traces in our country. Yeah, that's stressful, that's challenging. This is especially true for decision-makers, but it is challenging and challenging for all, but we need to deal with these fears, which are now emerging and are being appalled in addition, with these uncertainties and new uncertainties, which result in one – as you say so beautifully – being dealt with. That is what we want and that is what we are going to do, and that is only possible if we give hope again, if at least we are able to give orientation. That is why I also appeal for a certain level of debate that we should maintain here, but also outside of Parliament. We should take such an attitude into the future and take the next steps – and, yes, and finally, by holding together on the one hand and acting decisively on the other. This can and should lead – and I am quite confident – to the fact that in a few months, perhaps half a year, we are looking back at this time, on these days, on these difficult months, which are still in front of us, not only difficult, but also sad weeks and months, and then we can see that together we have dealt with this shock of terrorism, but also the pandemic-related social and economic challenges quite well to very well. That should be our goal – and together we can do that!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e4999	Mr Klubobmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e5024	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is in state mourning. On Monday evening we had to experience a brutal Islamic terrorist act in the city center of Vienna. Four people were killed, more than 20 more were injured; some of them are still in the hospital. Our thoughts are with the victims of death and their families, as well as with those who want a quick recovery. Many people also became eyewitnesses of this loathsome act. It was a still lukewarm evening, the last one before the lockdown, many were still eating or traveling with friends. A woman, a staff member who is also working in Parliament's environment, has personally told me that at that time she has found herself in a locality and is then on the ground for several hours. Others, in turn, watched this act from their homes, had to experience the shooting changes or saw how people were shot down. These too are our fellow feeling that these hours and these pictures still need to be processed. But our particular thanks and our respect are especially for the executive and security forces and for the civilian population. This commitment was exemplary, ladies and gentlemen, the cooperation between the units – police, rescue forces, federal army, special units and civil society – has worked perfectly. Within 9 minutes, the defendant could be turned off. Unfortunately, we know from other cities that this can take longer, that it can take half an hour, a three-quarters of an hour. We are not an island of blessed people here in Austria, unfortunately such attacks are taking place throughout Europe and worldwide, but, Minister of the Interior, I am particularly concerned that you pass on this thanks also to the police, to the forces, to the special units. – Thanks to these people, we can live in a safe country! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] What does this terrorist attack show, what conclusions do we draw from it? – We live in comparison with the population with the highest number of ISIS hazards. I already mentioned it, we are not an island of the Blessed in Austria. Unfortunately, there has now been such a terrorist attack in our country. We must remove the ground of any kind of extremism. We must be vigilant and we must act decisively against political Islam. Be the beginnings! – We must not look away, but we must look at it when confessions enter our churches. That's our job. These networks and these backmen must be removed. That is why I also welcome the setting up of an independent committee of inquiry to investigate and to clarify without delay all the operations associated with the defendant, because there may have been any mistakes in communication. It is important that a complete investigation is carried out in this area, because we need to remove these networks and these rearmen. We must do everything in our power so that it can't get that far. We must give the police and the justice the effective means in order to be able to oppose this extremism. If you look more closely at the circumstances of this suspect's life, you can only say that he is also an abnormal right-winger, who has more or less overcome all the deradicization measures and programs through deception and deception. Such people, ladies and gentlemen, are sick. It's like a addiction, a addiction that you've been building for years to kill people at the end of the day. We must face this disease firmly. That is our task in politics too! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] As long as these extremists do not fully accept our social life, we must quickly consider how to deal with such hazards. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] Another point is the renewal of the BAT, the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and the fight against terrorism. It is about monitoring and rapid intervention, and this institution, which is so important to us in this context, has been strongly affected in recent years. There, negative energy has been sprung there, including the employees, and it is our task that we should make this Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and the fight against terrorism a strong, powerful unit that we need in our Republic. It is now not the time for scapegoats or for looking for scapegoats, but it is about the establishment being strengthened quickly to combat any kind of extremism. [[Abg. Miel-Risinger: Then stop it!]] [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Schnedlitz: You have to tell the Nehammer!]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: This is your responsibility!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will not allow hatred and terror to split our society. We are a defensive, a liberal and a strong democracy and we will also defend it with all the means available to us. We will do everything we can to oppose any kind of extremism, and we must be closed and indignant about terrorism and the perpetrators. Austria has grown up through cohesion and a strong solidarity in society – this is especially important in this situation now too!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e5121	MEPs are speaking on behalf of Mr Rendi-Wagner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e5142	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Dear Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, I say it quite openly: In fact, I wanted to start this speech differently in these difficult days of our country, but only the operations of the last 48 hours will lead me to address a question to the Federal Government right at the beginning. I ask you: Why do you stress in the public over and over again the need for common and self-responsibleness when you seem to be doing exactly the opposite in this difficult phase of our country? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] On the first day after the horrendous terrorist attack in the heart of Vienna, it was to be heard that the Minister of the Interior is making the Minister of Justice responsible, and above all in your speech, in this speech on the occasion of these hideous terrorist events in Vienna, Mr. Federal Chancellor, you have tried this again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] A day later, the Minister of the Interior admitted a mistake. He acknowledges mistakes made by his own authority, the BAT. He commits the responsibility for these mistakes of his own authority but also to another person, apparently his predecessor, again someone else – errors that in the end caused four people to lose their lives on Monday plus the perpetrators and there were numerous injuries in Vienna. [[call to the FPÖ.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, Minister of the Interior, when do you understand that it is never and certainly not now about the removal of responsibility that is not about mutual debt allocations within the government at this difficult time? [[continued applause with SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS]] When do you understand that it is an honest one, an open, a serious Enlightenment and Error Culture? The questions many ask in Austria, such as: How could it get so far?, should be answered. Now it's mainly about one thing: It is about developing responsibility towards the population in Austria, to clarify this case in a complete, serious and honest manner, so that the right political conclusions can be drawn as quickly as possible from the objective of keeping the risk of further attack on the Austrian population as low as possible in order to protect people in our country. It's definitely not about fogging. It definitely is not a distraction to shift responsibility. It's not about headlines and records. It is about taking over the federal government's own responsibility. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] It is about taking responsibility with all the consequences, Mr Internal Minister, and you can assume this responsibility here and today before the National Council, because on Monday four people were murdered in the heart of our capital. Four people are dead, although the authority had clear evidence that the terrorist is in danger. This is a matter of honesty, it is a matter of propriety, and this honesty has earned the victims and the family – and I too would like to express my deepest compassion to them at this point. This honesty, however, is also important to the forces, the police, the federal army, the rescue forces and also the civilians who put their own security behind the security of the population this night. have done great things that have proved extraordinary courage. I would like to express my great thanks to you on behalf of the Social Democracy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to express my thanks to the doctors, to the care staff who are doing great things in the care of the victims this night, but also to this day. We are proud of you! Yes, we are very, very grateful to be able to rely on you. [[Congratulations to the SPÖ, to the representatives of the FPÖ and to Mr Ernst-Dziedzic and Mr Maurer.]] This horrendous terrorist attack took courage on the night of the day; Courage, a short word of great importance. – As a federal government, show you courage – courage that is necessary to work out honestly and in a complete manner, courage that is necessary to admit mistakes! Many questions remained unanswered in the National Security Council yesterday, including during the previous meetings: How could it happen that the perpetrator was so radicalized? How could he be noticed by the authorities an automatic gun – a war rifle! – buy, get? What happened to the information from Slovakia? Why was this person not monitored, closely monitored and observed by the intelligence services because of this information? Is it true that the next day a razzia was planned in the Islamic scene, which was flown up, which might have led directly to this act? – All this and much more, much more needs to be worked up honestly, seriously and completely, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Yes, many questions are open, but many things are already clear: It is already clear today that major mistakes have occurred, that the authorities of the Interior Minister had clear indications as to the terrorist's danger and that they have not followed them. It says that on Monday four people were executed innocently. It is clear, Minister of the Interior, that the people expect the government and you as ministers to take responsibility for all of this. You have the opportunity to do so here and today. Ladies and gentlemen, terror is not only attacking innocent people – it hurts, it kills, it attacks us, it attacks us all, our society, our state, our values and our democracy. And the goal of the terrorists is quite clear: The goal is to frighten our society. Our response must be clear and clear: We must not allow that to happen, and we will not allow it to happen. We consistently and resolutely defend our values! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This message is so important because it gives strength and hope in these difficult hours. It is not easy, in this great grief and in this deep pain that we all now feel to sow hope, but that's what makes us strong, that's exactly what makes my hometown Vienna strong, and that's exactly what makes Austria strong. Let us stand together as a society, just as the forces did in the night of action! They are united, and this has made them strong in the fight against these terrorists. If we defend our freedom, we defend our democracy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e5271	Mr Klubobmann Kickl is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e5294	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Yes, it is just three days ago that in Austria there has been the worst terrorist attack of its history, and I think it is not exaggerated to talk about a tragic acidity in the history of the Second Republic in this context. In some cases, 22 people have been seriously injured, and four innocent people have been killed by an attacker ice-cold and bestial, by an Islamist, by a man who, as a member of a terrorist organization, has been released from prison on parole, that is, the one who has been released from responsible world improvers and fantasies to the Austrian population, by a man who is housed in social housing, by a man who has lived by social assistance and who has enjoyed the privilege of having two citizenships. [[Abg. Pfurtscheller:... Laws...!]] Mr Bundeskanzler Kurz, I would like to say one thing: As much as my grief is in view of the events that have taken place there, so great is my horror and so great is my anger about all that is possible in this country, in a country where you and your party have held responsibility for many, many years in the field of justice, security and integration – you and nobody else! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you now speak of an end to the wrong tolerance, Mr. Bundeskanzler Kurz, forgive me for these clear words, then this is one self-esteem. Minister of the Interior, there are four people who have been murdered, four and not five, just as you claimed yesterday in a press conference, because the fifth dead, that is the Islamist. That's the one who pulled a blood trail through Vienna. He wasn't murdered as you said yesterday in your press conference. No, ladies and gentlemen, the police officer who drew God out of the traffic and thus prevented bloodshed is not a murderer, but a hero. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] He is a hero, like all the other security and military forces who, using their lives and at risk of their health this night, have been outside to protect the population. I find your choice of words, Minister of the Interior, embarrassing in this regard. I think it is just as embarrassing as your defense strategy, for two days to show in all possible directions, just to forget itself, is cowardly. I have to say that in this clarity. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In such a situation, it is necessary to do two things. One is the merciless and honest analysis of the tragic events, the preparation of the causes of this attack, in order to draw the necessary conclusions to minimise the risk of further attacks. But for that, it needs – and it was addressed – honesty and for that it needs openness. Honesty and openness, this is the claim the people make to you, and that is also what we owe to the victims and the survivors of these victims. In the present case, it is in fact possible to come to a very concrete and central knowledge already after a few days, and this is a knowledge: This Islamic attack could have been prevented. That is so simple and so sad, ladies and gentlemen, that is the reality. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger:... with the existing laws!]] Mr. Federal Chancellor and Minister of the Interior, four innocent people could still be alive now. Their families and their friends, their survivors, would not now have to endure untold suffering and untold pain, hundreds of policemen would not have had to risk their lives and march through the city as a bullet catch if, if, would not, had not been awfully failed, in your area of responsibility, Minister of the Interior, in your term of office. Not anywhere and at some point in time, the warnings of the Slovak security authorities regarding the attempted purchase of storm rifle ammunition by the later defendant and a second person, who may have to be used more and more. Only by means of this information would it have been possible to lock up this later suspect, bring him behind the castle and bars, but that's not exactly what happened, and so he was able to do on the 2nd. ==References== What you, Minister of the Interior, are impoverished as a communication mistake – it has also happened again today – what you call a communication mistake has in fact been the death sentence for four innocent people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is quite clear to me that, as Minister of State, you also bear political responsibility. I am very, very grateful to the media for making these warnings to the Slovak authorities on the protection of the Constitution – which, by the way, shows that the flow of information works of course – public. I am very grateful to them because now you can no longer dispute this fact. It is also interesting, in my opinion, that in all the statements you have made in the last few days, there has been no mention of this fact. You admitted it to the public only at the time, you only admitted it when you were already flying up as far as this great failure is concerned. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] I already promise you today that it will not take too long for you to admit what you are now arguing about, namely, that the later suspect has, of course, been under the surveillance of the Constitution and that, despite this surveillance, he could perform his bloody work. Yes, I know, ladies and gentlemen, the truth hurts, but four people had to pay for this failure with their lives. The price for your failure was the life of four people. There's the price you have to pay, a similar smaller one, Mr. Interior Minister. It is your resignation, no more and no less. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I'll tell you one thing: I know in your place what I have to do today and here. [[Call the ÖVP:Genau!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wöginger:... a naughtiness!]] Another second thing is important: It must be concluded that on the usual terms of concern and on the well-known rhythm of distress, which is always the same whether it is Vienna, whether it is Paris, whether it is London, then always follows the same thing, namely nothing at all. That's the big problem. We do not come to action, we do not come to action, and the reason for this is that it is much, much more difficult to act than just to speak as you have done today. Those who have listened attentively have found that all your announcements have always been articulated in the form of the future. You have not been able to bring any evidence from the past to what you have not achieved. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This action is also a bringing debt to the population, but I fear that you do not have the strength and courage to do so. We need a law against political Islam. This has not failed with us. If we had such a thing, we could have pulled those terrorists out of traffic, because it allows us to access before blood flows. They didn't want it. [[Abg. Wöginger: Yes, you wanted to give 14-year-olds the gun!]] We have always opposed premature layoffs from such individuals. We are in favour of the exclusion of citizenship, even if in the end the statelessness remains. This is not our problem, it is the problem of these terrorist individuals. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We're going to bring in these packages again, and I'm excited to see if you're with us this time and support us. However, we will also have to ask ourselves very basic questions, and the answers will not be pleasant for some. We will have to ask ourselves whether an asylum system where we are more and more concerned that the vulnerable are in many cases the real danger to their own population does not have to be completely changed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pfurtscheller]] [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: The culprit was not an asylum-seeker!]] We have a different view here, and I think the events have confirmed us this time too. We will have to ask ourselves if it is right for human rights to be used to protect terrorists from the consequences of their own blood attacks, while the dead no longer have human rights, because they have been simply and effectively murdered. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We will also have to ask ourselves whether it is really responsible to subject fanatical fundamentalists to a program of deradization and to believe that it can make people who have inhaled a completely different system of values than ours, with a few courses of value to glowing representatives of our kind. This is naïve and irresponsible, and we need to discuss it, because all this is the feeding ground for Islamism that you are supposed to want to fight. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We, ladies and gentlemen, are ready to engage in this debate and to do so. I'm excited if that's what you're going to be. That would be the necessary end of the shoulder, that would be the necessary common ground as a credible answer to this terrorist threat. I think we are in debt – in the guilt of the victims and in the guilt of the Austrian population. We have to act – to live for the security of our citizens, for the protection of democracy and for our way. Talking was long enough.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e5468	Mr Sigrid Maurer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e5489	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers in front of the screens! [[Call at the FPÖ: Now it's definitely about disarming the police!]] Like millions of other people in Europe and all over the world, we are shocked and deeply affected by what happened in the heart of Vienna on Monday night in the heart of our Republic. Four people were brutally murdered, cold-blooded shot. A terrorist robbed them of life, torn them out of their life story. Many more people were injured, some of them still in danger of life. Our compassion applies to them, to their relatives, to their friends. I would also like to thank once again the armed forces who managed to shoot the perpetrator within 9 minutes of the emergency call and thus ensure that more people do not lose their lives, including the rescue forces that have brought people to safety and hospitals. But I would also particularly like to thank those people who held together on this terrible night, who saved others, offered them refuge, also a bed for the night, because of the 1. District could not leave. Many have shown civil courage, without regard to their own lives, especially those three young men who have saved the shots of the police. [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as of SPÖ and NEOS representatives.]] Austria is a very safe country, Vienna one of the safest millions of cities in the world, and we have been spared until Monday by Islamist terror, which has plagued many European cities in recent years. But we also have a problem with young men who are radicalizing, who are being indoctrinated and join a murderous, disdainful ideology. [[Abg. Martin Graf:... belongs, please!]] The reasons for radicalisation are diverse, and our answer must be as diverse as that. It is the task of our democratic institutions to protect us from this radicalization, and it is the duty of the entire civil society to oppose it decisively. This begins in educational institutions, in schools and goes to justice and security authorities. We do not know with certainty whether this attack could have been prevented. [[Abg. Worm: Yes! We now know!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] We still know far too little about the backgrounds and procedures, about how it could have been possible for an already condemned Islamist after his release or not sufficiently observed by the constitutional protection, that his attempt to buy ammunition in Slovakia remained without consequences, and how it could have been done to get weapons and ammunition and not stopped. All of this has to be dealt with mercilessly. The Minister of the Interior has already honestly admitted that the competent authority, the constitutional protection in the Ministry of the Interior, appears to have made a serious mistake. He and the Minister of Justice will therefore set up an independent committee of inquiry which will clarify all the details on this terrible case, and we will of course also have to address the question of whether our systems are well placed to combat radicalisation and prevent violence, of course, on the basis of democratic fundamental rights. This concerns in particular the recasting of the BAT including a corresponding parliamentary control. [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as Members of the NEOS.]] Hatred and terror are the attempt to split, the attempt to destroy cohesion and peace. Terror is an attack on our peaceful living together, on our diversity, on tolerance and respect, on the principle of equality of all people, an attack on freedom and the democratic values that have been fought so hard. The defendant did not succeed in achieving this goal. Our society shows itself strengthened and condoned by the condemnation and rejection of this loathsome act. The city of Vienna refuses to give the perpetrator the name and that he will become famous. He is only described with a sluggish word that I do not want to repeat now, but that expresses our total contempt for his actions. So heavy and dark the last days were, so comforting and encouraging it is that cohesion is so much stronger than hatred, across all groups, whether young or old, whether born here in Austria or elsewhere, no matter what religion. Our Federal President Alexander Van der Bellen said: “There is freedom! Live our Republic of Austria! Live our common, peaceful Europe!” – I would like to join him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e5569	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e5591	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear people who look at us! A red rose, stuck in one of the shot holes: This is a picture that was really shared in the social media a thousand times yesterday, but it is a flower in each single shothole, in the windows, on the walls. Countless people have now come to the crime spots and have thought of the dead, the injured, the deed and shown with this perhaps small, but so important and so powerful symbol that love is greater than hatred. The evening of the 2nd. November wasn't an evening like anyone else. It was the night before the lockdown. It was actually a nice, mild evening, and many people were on their way to the city centre to sit in the shady gardens, to drink another beer, to drink another glass of wine, perhaps to look past the host who now has to lock up for weeks, and to give him courage. At around 8.10 p.m., we knew that this evening will not be an evening like anyone else for other terrible reasons. It will be the day that brought terror back to Vienna after many years. I grew up in downtown. I was three years old in 1981. I did not really know the attack in the side street at that time, but probably the increased security measures around Jewish institutions. A friend of mine has already heard this attack in 1981. He told me yesterday, when I happened to meet him at the High Market after we laid down the wreaths and flowers together, that it was his nanny that was killed because it was between the assassins and his little brother. ==References== In November, four people were killed in Vienna and many more were seriously injured. These four people have been torn out of life – rarely is a language picture more striking than this for the description of this evening. Stay behind – and they are valid for our sincere and truly heartfelt participation – parents, friends, partners and perhaps children. We can do the evening of the 2nd. No. November, we can't make the killed people alive again, and we can't, or can't, just... Due to the fear and the horrors that have been spread in these minutes and hours, simply wipe away from the table. This will be a very long time for us. But we can, and we have already proved this to many people in the past few hours and days, show that we stand together as a society and don't make one millimeters soft, terror and fear never leave the field. [[Congratulation with NEOS, ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens as well as the Abg. Kickl.]] The fact that this statement is not a floscle shows the words of the golden heart of Vienna, which have already been addressed, which can be heard in a video called to the defendant. No, I will not repeat them here either, but rarely before was such an expression more striking, more at the point than any slogan after other attacks in European cities. Just like the rose in the shothole in the wall, this sentence is a little balm for the soul. [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and Greens.]] In an open society, in a liberal democracy, it must always be clear that precisely this democratic freedom, this openness, also democratic fundamental rights can be exploited in order to combat this very freedom, this open society, this liberal democracy. Therefore, our society must always be vigilant and, above all, always be defensive. The achievements of Enlightenment and secularity – and these are our basic values – must be defended by means available in this democratic bow and made available as legislators. Freedom – and that is very important to me – is not only a right, but also an obligation to defend this freedom again and again. Freedom always comes with responsibility and care. But attention also means that one must clearly name the enemies of open society. They are many of many different sides, and in Europe this is especially Islamism at present. On the ground of a religion, it is really about fundamentalism and extremism. A vastly cross-crossed state of God will be there over the democratic rule of law, fundamentalist views are placed on our liberal and open society. That is not tolerated, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] It doesn't have a place with us! Since the Enlightenment, since the historical achievements of a Constitution that secures fundamental rights and freedom, it must be clear that it has no place in our society. It is precisely this freedom, but this liberal social order must not now be abandoned, otherwise they would have won. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, three days of statestroopers are, in my opinion, an important reaction, although only a symbolic response to the terrorist act on Monday. It is a collective reaction that will never help the individual, the directly concerned, the victims and relatives, but also, of course, the many people who are now afraid, who have had to experience the events directly or indirectly. In such a time of mourning, no blame is sure. And I must say at this point that I am horrified, surprised – I do not know – or that it has not taken 24 hours for you, Federal Chancellor, and you, Minister of the Interior, to go into the media with debt allocations, to make up the debtors in the justice system. In the headlines it was to read, you repeated it today – and I have to say that I found very little statesmanic and actually blatant – that the justice would have released the defendant from prison too early. At the same time, the first media reports from Germany came that there have been massive failures and mistakes in the context of constitutional protection, the BAT and thus the Ministry of the Interior. Essential information about a ammunition purchase attempt in July was passed on and then nothing apparently happened. It also fits in with this picture that a well-known hazarder has apparently already published a picture of himself with the weapons in the social media at noontime. I find these early debt allocations displaced and few statesmen. That is why we made it clear yesterday, without any debt allocations, that an independent committee of inquiry needs to be set up to investigate these incidents. However, independent also means that the opposition will be included, in particular, in the question of who is directing this Commission of Inquiry, and that the opposition must at least be given comprehensive access to documents within the framework of the National Security Council. One thing seems to be clear: This attack could and should have been prevented – and it is important to me to say as a legislator: at the bottom of the existing laws that are obviously sufficient. Madam Minister of Justice, I think it would have been nice yesterday to stand before justice a little more clearly. After this committee of inquiry, we will clarify the consequences, which will not help the victims or the relatives, but will perhaps make Austria better and safer. Actionism and party-political maneuvers – especially not from the government bank – should now have no place. We now need clean information and responsibility. And yes, responsibility also means taking responsibility, if it is clear that something has gone wrong in its own authorities, Minister of the Interior. Finally, I would like to quote a gentleman, Andreas Wiesinger, who was interviewed yesterday in the “ZIB 2”. He was eyewitnesses of the attack and spoke to me from the soul, and I want to make it equal to him. He said that right after the lockdown, he “will return to the place and drink a beer with the waiters there, because my favorite place I don’t let take away from it. ” – Terror has no chance in Austria, we all prove it together!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e5697	Mr Nehammer, Minister of the Interior, has been spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e5718	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians! Dear people who live in Austria! It is not quite 72 hours when the most severe terrorist attack has occurred in the history of Austria: Four people were murdered, 22 injured, a lot of them heavy. To be quite precise, 13 people were injured by gunshots and gunshots and nine people suffered injuries in their escape. The perpetrator could be eliminated after 9 minutes, but every victim, every injured person is too much. That evening I was at the Ministry of the Interior, and at 8 p.m. the first news came on the police radio: culprits with long-range weapon. [[Abg. Schnedlitz: The first news was in July!]] From then on, a deeply disturbing and dynamic terrorist situation developed. Persecutor with Langwaffe is the code word for the police that the use becomes extremely dangerous because the impact of these weapons is particularly high. Switching off the perpetrator after 9 minutes was due to the hearty intervention of the police and a well-prepared and trained mission tactics. I am particularly grateful to the Vienna police and the police president, who has also done the job with caution. It made it possible to turn off the perpetrator quickly because there was a collaboration of special staff and police officers on the ground; in this interplay there is a high effect – and this was achieved. A total of 1,000 police officers were in service this evening, and I thank all of them very much. I am deeply moved and proud to be ministers of the interior of staff who have not hesitated for a second – even those who were in their deserved free time or on vacation – to enter the police inspections, to strengthen the Federal Criminal Office or the Constitutional Protection. There was a relationship and a cooperation. When the first reports went out, the strength of Europe was also felt. We were immediately offered aid and support - from the Federal Republic of Germany, Hungary, Slovenia, the USA, Israel - to achieve support in the secret service by strengthening the special units in order to avoid the terrorist attack as much as possible. The great solidarity with Austria is also expressed by the fact that the Minister of the Interior of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Chairman of the Council of Horst Seehofer will completely re-order the next Council of the Interior of the Interior and will put the topic of anti-terrorism and the fight against terrorism in the first place. The Federal Chancellor referred to it: Yesterday we faced the injured policeman who thanked God for having made a very strong and courageous impression despite all circumstances. That was certainly one of the most moving moments for me as Minister of the Interior. He described both of us in the time of our visit. In this conversation, it became clear and visible what incredible dynamics and dramas played out in these minutes. The hearty intervention of the police and the cooperation of the rescue forces has prevented worse – a great thank you all. A great deal of thanks also goes to the Austrian Federal Army, the Minister of Defense, who quickly made sure that police forces were released by providing us with special units that took over the property protection and also provided armored vehicles if that were necessary. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Many have spoken today in the previous speeches that solidarity and cohesion have become so visible during these hours. I have to say a lot of thanks to the people, and I would like to say proudly, because she herself – the citizens of Vienna – has massively supported the police action. In cooperation with the Constitutional Protection Office, the Federal Criminal Office has provided an online platform through which videos could be uploaded from the site of the attack, with the request not to send them around, because this often leads to uncertainty and anxiety. Over this platform we got 20,000 videos that support police work. Thanks to these videos, it has succeeded in quickly getting clarity about how many perpetrators actually acted in the crime scene. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schnedlitz.]] In addition to the weapons he carried, the perpetrator also had a explosive belt that turned out to be an attack. This took some time to identify him, but then everything went very fast. When it was clear who it was – it was possible because it had been turned off – a house search followed in his apartment. This house search in his apartment still triggered further house searches that night, in the following hours, and led to 15 arrests. The arrested have now been transferred to justice. It is strongly determined what links there have been to the terrorist, which networks he has operated, and what possible connections there are, even beyond our national borders. There were also two arrests in Switzerland, and there is a close coordination with the security authorities to examine further links. It quickly became apparent that the perpetrator had links to the IS, known to the Islamic State, and thus was a follower of terror, dictatorship, and human contempt. That's exactly what he's shown with his deed. I am grateful to the Minister of Justice, the Procuratorate and the Judges for being able to act so quickly and decisively and we are now quickly able to continue the investigations. Yes, it is true, on the one hand, we have the challenge of hunting, tracking and identifying the terrorists, possible other terrorists, but on the other hand we have the challenge of looking at where things have not gone the way they should have been – that is, to bring exactly this clarity, the Commission of Inquiry of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior. Allow me just one comment on the previous speakers: It is the Commission's intention to clarify, and it is not yet the time to draw up final findings of the circumstances and the mistakes that have been made. That needs to be examined now. [[Abg. Smoking: You have to create clarity!]] There is full transparency on the part of the Ministry of the Interior, to which I recognise, that is important to me. Together with the Minister of Justice, we will ensure that all steps are presented transparently and publicly. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Worm:... People sitting in the Commission!]] We need to work together – we need to be prepared for the new dangers, we will have these challenges even further – that we get the tools needed, on the one hand, for the police, on the other, but also for justice, so that we can identify people quickly and actually become addictive to them before they endanger other people. This will be a big undertaking; it also needs the merciless looking in where there is still need for improvement. At the same time – and this has already been mentioned – it is important that constitutional protection be re-established. We are on a good path in the project phase – the legal framework decided by the High House – in order to have clear and efficient structures in the field of state police, even in the field of intelligence, in order to be able to fight even more strongly against terrorism and indeed to become the perpetrator. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the attack was an attack on our democracy, on our fundamental and freedom rights. The police protect fundamental and freedom rights, they are on the side of citizens, and one thing that presupposes: Terror will not shake our fundamental and freedom rights, it will not break our society apart, it will not divide us. We have seen how important cohesion is, we have seen the life-saving measures of the Austrians with migration background, which have brought the police out of the death zone and thus started their life saving. It is now the time to find those who want to destroy our society, but at the same time to explain what Austria is like: a free, a strong republic and democracy that is characterized by tolerance and stands for a peaceful and orderly living together.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e5804	The Federal Minister for Justice has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e5825	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! The Austrian population, all the people living in Austria, had to endure incredible this year. In 2020, we not only caught up with a global pandemic, but we also had to experience a terrible attack on the 2nd of November, which shook us all into the foundations. My thoughts are with the victims, with their families, whom I would like to express my deepest condolences. Yeah, we're all scared, we're insecure. I can also tell you that everything we say now and what we're going to do can't cure wounds. [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as of SPÖ and NEOS representatives.]] What we all now have to do together is to stick together, for only in this way can we give each other comfort and also give hope for the future. The sight of the pictures of 2.11.2020, the feeling that people were shot in front of our door with a storm gun – shot defenselessly, shot innocently –, innocent people who had been drinking together with their friends this evening because they wanted to enjoy the evening before the lockdown: This reminded me and many others of a time, we have felt moved back into a time that we do not want in Austria, which we never want to experience. That is why I will use all my strength to ensure that such a thing never happens again, that terror is not possible in Austria. The prosecutor's office – I promise you – will make every effort to clarify this terrible act. I can also promise you that we will do everything we can to account for those behind this cruel attack. [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as of SPÖ and NEOS representatives.]] I can also promise you that we in the Federal Government will do everything together to prevent such actions in the future. My request is: Stay there for your fellow people! Don't be split! Yesterday we had a anniversary day – you have to say – 70 years of the European Convention on Human Rights, which has passed us a little traceless. That the foundations of our democracy, our freedom and our human rights are so shaken this week is sad. This also causes us to keep in mind that we are not being split, that we will continue to raise our freedom, our fundamental rights. [[It was in favour of Greens, ÖVP and NEOS, as well as of SPÖ representatives.]] This perpetrator tried to split our country on Monday, he tried to cause chaos, he tried to stir us up against each other, migrants against Austrians, Christians against Muslims, Muslims against Christians. He and his ideologies wanted to make us those monsters as he himself was. I say he won't succeed. We will continue to uphold our democracy and the rule of law, we will continue to uphold our values and we will continue to be there for each other. That's why everyone needs your help together. [[Congratulation with Greens, ÖVP, SPÖ and NEOS.]] I can also promise you that I, the Minister of the Interior and the entire Federal Government will do everything possible to clarify everything without delay. Of course, it will be necessary to highlight the action and the Tathergang as well as the events before the deed. It is therefore important that we have also jointly decided to set up this Commission of Inquiry. I can also tell you that, of course, immediately after the attack, I have been told of what happened in the course of the pre-crime in 2019, and I have also conducted detailed discussions with all the section leaders and, of course, with the then officers of the defendant. I can tell you, according to my current knowledge, that the perpetrator was sentenced to 22 months in prison. He had participated as a member of the ISIS terrorist association by travelling, among other things, to Turkey in order to move further from there to Syria to support further members of the ISIS. But he did not succeed because he was arrested in Turkey by the security authorities there and then, finally, was transferred to Austria and arrested. He was in prison from 15.9.2018, partly in detention and in custody in Turkey. He was released in December 2019 due to two thirds of the penalty. He was tested under strict conditions for a period of three years. He was ordered for the duration of three years to provide assistance, support and control, while at the same time there was the possibility of monitoring by the security authorities to avoid any risk. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] The monitoring of the risks and the necessary flow of information between justice and security authorities is of particular importance when it comes to people who are pre-criminalised for a terrorist crime. The prosecutor's office and the courts may act only if they have the necessary information. This is precisely why the flow of information is so necessary in these cases. That is precisely why I also support the initiative of the Minister of the Interior to re-establish the protection of the Constitution, because of course it is also a question of improving and improving cooperation between justice, prosecutors and the protection of the Constitution. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] First and foremost, it is about protecting the population, about the security of all the people living in Austria, and it is also about the fact that people who pose a threat are not only closely cared for and controlled, but also monitored by statesmen. The care and control will have to be even more closely followed after detention, and we will also take care of it. In order to find out all the details of the processes in hand and to find out what happened, as mentioned earlier, the Minister of the Interior and I will set up the Commission of Inquiry so that well-founded lessons can be drawn for the future. It is now important not to make early debt allocations, but to make every effort together to draw the appropriate lessons from them and to ensure the protection and security of all people living in Austria. I can assure you that both of us are merciless interested in a reconnaissance and will highlight all the processes in recent days, but also in recent years. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: This is not particularly credible!]] I can also assure you that justice – prosecutors and jurisdiction – will do everything to help clarify. Finally, I would like to thank all the heroes of the night of Monday: the Blue Light organizations, the rescue, the police, the doctors, the nurses, the nurses who did extraordinary things to prevent worse, also for the great cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, between the police and the prosecutors who worked tirelessly in the journal service that night to approve orders, and also the judges who quickly approved orders that night. I would also like to tell you that, according to my current state of knowledge, the judges as well as the staff of the courts and prosecutors have acted at all times according to the best knowledge and conscience according to the information available to them and also according to the current legal situation. I would like to express my express thanks to them for their use. [[It was in favour of Greens, ÖVP and NEOS, as well as of SPÖ representatives.]] I would also like to thank those – even the Minister of the Interior has already mentioned it – who have shown civil courage to save the lives of others in order to secure injured police. I would like to thank the people who offered refuge during the night under the hashtag SwedenplatzTür and open-doorsvienna in the social media. I would also like to thank the local owners in Vienna, who have already suffered a particularly difficult year, for offering refuge to the people. You all, ladies and gentlemen, have shown that we can be proud of Austria that we can be proud of Vienna. They all make Austria a great country. This culprit, no, will not divide us, for we will continue to hold together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e5922	Mr Mahrer has now been spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e5943	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Values of Austrians! Today, in Parliament, we are commemorating the victims of the terrorist attack of the Allerseelentag in Vienna, but we will never forget this cowardly, this horrendous atrocities, ladies and gentlemen, in our lives. But this dramatic attack has also shown that our police and the local helpers have done quite excellent work – hundreds of police officers, the rescue forces, the doctors, the nurses in the hospitals. We should be grateful to all of you, just as the people of the civilian population who have helped. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear to us: What happened on Monday were acts of a criminal, and these actions of a criminal have been directed against our democracy, against our values, and all those who believe that they can endanger our democracy and our peaceful living together are said here by the Austrian Parliament: We're not going to let ourselves get under! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I therefore also, of course, welcome the measures, I would also like to say that I welcome the steps taken by the Federal Government in the last few days, because yes, ladies and gentlemen, it is also necessary to question whether we have done everything right. The establishment of an independent Commission of Inquiry for Complete Enlightenment, the identification of organisational improvements, the starting point of learning processes, better networking, all these are necessary measures, and all of this may also raise the question of whether legal new regulations are also needed. However, ladies and gentlemen, we also need answers to various questions. Is the release on parole for criminals in connection with terrorists the right instrument? Is deradization really a success in prisons and in parole aid? What improvements are there to better monitor hazards? Are we on the right path with a possible denial of citizenship? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, we are of course concerned with the consistent reform of the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and the fight against terrorism. I'm already at the Klubobmann Kickl not present right now. You all know, I always try to build bridges and search for the common. [[Abg. Belakovich: Exactly! That's it!]] There's a connection here with Mr Kickl. Please address Mr Kickl! [[Abg. Belakovich: I'm directing it to him!]] Mr Kickl announced to the public yesterday at a press conference details of possible police actions to combat terrorism. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Yes, and is it true?]] Ladies and gentlemen! If the actions he mentioned were really real, he would have severely impeded these efforts and Mr. Kickl would thus also endanger the lives of police officers. [[Abg. Belakovich: That was in the past!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: But stupid!]] That's not responsible! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Call:But such a nonsense]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: Isn't that embarrassing to you yourself?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] We must look at the root of the problem, ladies and gentlemen, and the root of the problem is why people are being radicalized. Why are they radicalized? – I continue to maintain my statement, which I have met several times here in the House, and I repeat it again: If a young person has shortages in education and also in confession to the values of the Republic of Austria, then he has no chance of actually becoming a valuable part of this society – and if he has no chance, then he has no hope, then he has no perspective, and that is the basis for crime, extremism and terrorism. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] We need to get even more involved in the field of education, and we also need a clear commitment that we not only promote integration but also call for it – consistently! [[Abg. Kassinger: We don't have to do anything!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: But you already know that the suspect...?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I have come to the conclusion, but I would like to stress it once again, because it is so important to me. Many of you – including Mrs Rendi-Wagner – have said today, Mrs. Meinl-Reisinger has done so in recent days, the opposition has repeatedly confirmed and strengthened it: Let's stand together. – I give you an answer from my point of view: Yes, we stand together, especially in this difficult time for the Republic of Austria! Let's pull one strand together! This invitation also applies to you, Mr Kickl; They came back in the meantime. [[Abg. Kickl: Be honest once in a lifetime!]] It is time to push away the parting and put the common position in the foreground, ladies and gentlemen, and to put it in the foreground. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] It is time for a joint effort and, ladies and gentlemen – I hope, at least that unites us – it is time for the common commitment to the Republic of Austria, to our values and to our liberal democracy. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] In this sense: Let's help! We, I'm quite sure, even with different opinions, we're not going to get under.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e6162	Mr Klubobmann is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e6184	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take the opportunity to express my warm condolences to the relatives and friends of the murdered. I would like to wish everyone who has been injured good quality, and I would like to say thank you: Thanks to the forces, thanks to those who risked their lives, but also thanks to the silent heroes of this night, yes, also thanks to the one loud hero of that night, who told the attacker loud his opinion, yes, and thanks to the people who worked and helped in the hospitality industry, thanks to the people who worked in theaters, in museums, in opera, and thanks to all those who worked at events. That's where it turned out: In the crisis, the country holds together. Thank you very much to everyone, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But it's not just a question of thank you – you have to make it clear – it's also about questioning: What happened? Why did it get involved? We tried yesterday to get answers from the Federal Chancellor and the Minister of the Interior from the National Security Council. We have now listened, I have now listened and tried to get answers, and I have to tell you, these answers have not come. One might object that in this time of mourning it is perhaps too early to ask for these answers, but I do not think it is too early because I have the feeling that these answers, when going to the government, will never come, ladies and gentlemen, and therefore they must be asked. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have now listened exactly to how, when the government comes to it, we should come to these answers, and the words “independent investigation commission” have fallen about 50 times yesterday and today. In the case of an independent committee of inquiry, which is used by those who are to be examined, ladies and gentlemen, the word is something independently misplaced, I must say quite frankly to you! If independent, then it would have to be parliamentary control, but apparently you fear parliamentary control. I don't understand. If we were to talk about cooperation, if we were to talk about common responsibility, it would have been the minimum to say immediately: Yeah, something went wrong. This requires parliamentary control and not a Commission of Inquiry, set up by Mr Nehammer, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] There are some things that really need to be clarified according to our current vague state of knowledge – I really say: vague knowledge. How did it come about that this information, the information that the perpetrator in Slovakia has tried to buy storm rifle ammunition, apparently came to the Austrian authorities, but there was no response and the judicial system was not in agreement? The Ministry of Justice – as we have heard today – received this information for the first time during the night of the attack. In such a situation, it would seem to a federal chancellor that it would not immediately be the first reflection to adapt the Minister of Justice, no, it would be a federal chancellor to go into himself and question why this mistake could happen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] It is also necessary to ask why – and I have personally experienced this in part in the BAT study committee – a once-functioning constitutional protection, intelligence, or as one can call it, for several decades among ÖVP ministers, briefly interrupted by a FPÖ Minister of the Interior, seems to be no longer able to carry out his duties. If party-political occupations go before qualification – and that for 20 years – you must not be surprised that mistakes happen, ladies and gentlemen – and someone has a responsibility too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] A few days ago, we looked into the gray, cruel, terrible face of terror. We have to complain of the dead and the injured. The people of our country are filled with grief, yes, and also with anger; and now it is about this anger not leading to hatred, to destruction and to further suffering. In order to prevent this, it is necessary to assume responsibility, to exercise responsibility. That is the task of the Federal Government, and yes, Mr Federal Minister, it is in particular your task to take on responsibility and not to try to adapt to each other in the Federal Government. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr Federal Minister, on the basis of what you have reported here before, what You reported yesterday in the National Security Council, I regret to note that you do not seem to want to take on this responsibility yourself. I must therefore tell you that Austrian social democracy has no confidence in you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e6275	Next speaker: Mrs Dagmar Belakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e6296	Madam President. Citizens' values! Dear Members of the Government! It has already been said by all of us how terrible this incident was, also from our side, thanks naturally to all the forces. But let's see what actually happened, Minister of the Interior Nehammer! There has been an attack, the most serious attack since 1985 – I would like to say this clearly here. However, the difference to the time is: This attack could have been prevented, and it should have been prevented, ladies and gentlemen. But they have gone here and have now been lying permanently to the Austrians, but also to us as Members, for more than 72 hours – at least until yesterday, even today, you have said it again. They stood up and explained perfectly: This man cheated on him. – You did that yesterday in your press conference. Mr Minister, you know that's not right! This man didn't fool anyone! It was known to all that he is not de-adicated. That's what those responsible at the Derad Association said. It wasn't him. He didn't deceive anyone. The only one who has tried this and is still trying is you, Federal Minister, and the Federal Chancellor. They are trying to deceive the citizens of this country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They are trying to put off the blame, and I have listened to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic today, when he said: Yeah, he was released too early. – First of all, he was released from prison on the basis of existing laws. One can now discuss whether these laws are correct or wrong, fact is: It all happened on the basis of the law. By the way, Mrs Zadić was still not the current Minister of Justice at the time – you should also remember this, Mr Minister, if you want to push on with responsibility. What did you do yesterday? – When you noticed that this doesn’t work quite well, and when the media arrived at once with the documents from Slovakia and the Slovaks said they immediately after this purchase attempt, after this failed attempt to buy ammunition, informed the Austrian authorities, you tried to push the blame of an interior minister who was in office before you, in a very loathsome way. What you did there was last-class, Mr. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What happened? – What we know is: ==References== In July, this failed purchase attempt in Slovakia. The Slovak authorities have also made this clear on Facebook, for all Austrians: They informed the Austrian authorities immediately thereafter; and on 10 July they were informed of the Austrian authorities. The Slovak authorities then learned the identity on September, the identity of the supposed buyer and the identity of the owner of the car. So it's not like nothing happened, Minister Nehammer. It was communicated with everyone except the justice. There was no communication with the justice! You've been informed of this on the night of the murder. I would like to ask myself the question: What else? After the culprit was dead, you informed the court of justice. Minister who plays the game You there? – You should not try to find the responsibility elsewhere. You will find the political responsibility when you look in the mirror. There you will find the political leader, Minister! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You're fleeing from your responsibility. You're welcome to do that. You're very happy to do that, and that's probably the reason why you're trying to fog it all. It was also very remarkable that you did not even dare to repeat all these accusations today. Mr Minister, I have also listened closely to the Minister for Justice. She said here in the house a few minutes ago: In his early release, the security authorities ordered the surveillance to observe him. – This is clear: This suspect was under observation or should have been under observation. So, where did the mistake happen now? – This is not a communication mistake, Minister! If he has been observed, he has become a terrorist under the supervision of the BAT, he has become a murderer of four innocent people under the surveillance of the BAT. This has nothing to do with a communication error, this is a system mistake, Mr Minister, and for this system error you bear the responsibility, and only you, Federal Minister Nehammer. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Skill You really look the victims' relatives in the eye? Skill You're actually looking at yourself in the mirror? Can you actually answer to say: With all that has happened, with all that I have political responsibility, I continue as before, I try to sit it down!? – Mr Minister, this is not going to happen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this sense, Mr Federal Minister, I think it would have been the most honest way if you had stood up and explained your resignation. That would have been clean, because you alone bear the responsibility. Because there have now been headaches here in the ranks of the ÖVP and because Mr Leichtfried has told me that in the area of constitutional protection there is a lot in the arrogance: Yes, that's right, there's a lot in the arrogance and that's been in the arrogance for a long time, probably since it was founded, because just once the first director was removed by an intrigue. There's a lot in the arrogance there: In 2016, there was already the first house search there, in 2017 there was a house search again and 2018 again. Because there are misconceptions there, that's exactly why there were these many house searches – what happened before, we actually don't know everything at all. Minister of the Interior Nehammer, this responsibility belongs to you and your party. You have not succeeded in forming this post since you took up this post, and you have not managed to control an attacker, a terrorist who already wanted to go to the IS to Syria, so far that such a terrorist act is not committed in the face of constitutional protection. That is your political responsibility, Minister of State Nehammer, and I therefore make the following request: Request for Distrust by Mr Herbert Kickl, colleagues on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for the Interior The National Council wants to decide: ‘The Federal Minister for the Interior is hereby approved by the Federal Minister for the Interior of the Federal Republic of Germany in 74 Paragraph 1 of the B-VG, by express resolution of the National Council, fails to give rise to confidence.’ [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, I think it would have been cleaner for you – and in the sense of the Republic, also in the sense of the victims and their relatives – if you had taken this step at the moment when you realized that there have been a lack of responsibility for which you really have the sole responsibility. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[11:12]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e6488	The request for distrust is properly filed and is under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Georg Bürstmayr. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e6512	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Everything has its time, and today is still the time of mourning. In the course of today's debate, the members of the victims of this attack spoke several times, and it was They have our compassion. This is such a phrase that is very obvious at such moments. If the relatives of the injured and the dead listen to us today, I would like to tell them: I can't feel what you're going through just now because I've never lost one family from one minute to the other. I can only try to feel your pain, and the attempt alone hurts infinitely. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I cannot take this pain at this time, but I hope that I will speak for the whole of the Federal Government and the whole of the High House – one thing that we will support you, not only verbally, not only with the expression of compassion, but quite real, and not only today or tomorrow, but also in half a year or two years, if it has to be. We're here for you! And I can remind you, because I have never experienced this myself, only the words of an American politician, Joe Bidens, who will probably be the next elected President of the USA, who has already experienced the same thing twice and on a similar occasion once said: The day will come when the memory of your loved ones will first bring a smile on your face and only afterwards a tear. It'll take, but it'll be better. - Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e6557	Mr Douglas Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff spoke next. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e6582	Madam President. Ministers on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the televisions! The pictures we have had in our heads since Monday and all of us have experienced in close proximity, we will probably not forget everyone. It was for the first time for my generation and for many of us that we experienced a terrorist attack so close by and really felt it on my own body, what it means for one person when terror arrives at home – and that is exactly what this federal capital is for me. What was all the worse for me is that we were met in a place that stands for joy. For many the place is Vienna, 1. District, for joy, for being together, for exactly that which is also a liberal democracy, for exactly this one with one another and with that one another, and precisely there we have met with this terrorist attack. It was 9 minutes that for many who have experienced this very close to the ground, who had known people there and who have come to know it, they felt sure as hours, and also the hours after that were for many fearful hours, in which one did not feel well, in which one was afraid, but precisely this fear we should not have, for that is exactly what this terrorist wanted to achieve. But we can also be very proud, we can be happy that the police and many other forces have managed to put an end to this within 9 minutes, that they have managed to prevent worse – and that this attack has been completed so quickly, my and, I think, our thanks. [[We welcome the NEOS, as well as representatives of the ÖVP and Greens.]] But there are also gestures of humanity that we have seen about whether these were the two young guys who helped one shot at the police, whether it was hotel owners, employees in the hotel lobbys who opened the door, whether it were people who wrote on Instagram, Facebook, in social media: Come home to me, I'll offer you a bed for this night! – These are exactly the gestures of humanity that this time has shown, these are gestures of liberal democracy, of liberal living democracy, which we are so proud of. But Monday's act has also shown us that there are things that we have to question, that there are things we have to ask very clear questions about, because in the weeks and months before that everything has not happened completely. This is precisely what we are going to be dealing with as Parliament, but the ministers, the Ministries, will also ask the people, and that is why these questions must be addressed clearly here and in addition to providing for information. It is not understandable to me how it can be that someone who is pre-punished first comes out of prison and then is not monitored. That's exactly what we have to ask how that happened. We must ask ourselves the question: How did it happen that this suspect in Slovakia tried to buy ammunition for a weapon reported to Austria and nothing happened here? All these questions remain, and it is up to you, Mr Federal Minister, to provide information as quickly and transparently as possible. It is also important to clarify the question: Why was it that this suspect just before he posted photos of himself with weapons on social media and we didn't respond to it? This question will also be clarified. I am very happy that you announced yesterday that you will support our proposal to set up an independent Commission, and we will hopefully use it soon. However, I would like to say very clearly that this independent Commission must also be truly independent. It must not be a Commission which is about diverting from itself, diverting from failure or from mistakes in its own home and moving them to other, former ministers, to other ministries, but must be an independent Commission, in which Parliament is also strongly involved, in which all the facts and facts are disclosed, so that this Commission can really do its job. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Then: The aim of this Commission must be to strengthen one thing, and this is the security of the Austrians, because we want such a thing to never happen again and in this sense liberal democracy is strong in the future and will be strengthened from this situation.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e6652	Next speaker: Mrs Michaela Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e6673	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! Mr. K. F. was a terrorist. On Monday evening, he tried to put people of our country in fear and terror by brutal violence. Innocent people have left their lives or have been injured, partly very difficult. My deepest compassion is for the families, family and friends of the victims who have died in this terrible attack. We grieve with them and we care for those who remain in the hospitals or heal at home. Thanks to our excellent police officers and special units, the culprit could be placed within 9 minutes after the emergency call. Thank you for the commitment, a thank you as well as the rescue, the fire brigade, all those who were there as blue light organizations! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] After such a terrible act, we all ask ourselves: How can it get that far? A teenager is infected with Islamic thought. He wants to join the IS in Syria, is stopped in Turkey, arrested, returned to Austria, delivered and sentenced in court proceedings. The law provides for a criminal framework of up to ten years for the membership of a terrorist association. Decisions on the level of punishment take into account, among other things, the impunity, the youth, the state of mind at the time of action, the damage caused, the consequences of the act – this is what our judges consider. The assassin in Vienna was sentenced to 22 months of imprisonment. At present, only prisoners who have been released early under conditions can continue to care for them. Mr. K. F. has deceived everyone, angrily and visibly with intent. [[Abg. Belakovich: He didn't deceive anyone!]] [[Abg. Kickl: He made no secret of his attitude!]] Already in prison, he behaved well to be released from prison early. It has participated in deradicisation programmes and clearly fulfils the requirements in the probation period. We have to ask ourselves: Why was it possible that despite the support of various organizations, this attack actually happened? [[Abg. Belakovich:... surprised?]] We must ask ourselves, and the education and development of our systems must also allow the question: How does the Derad Deradicisation Organization report? How to restart? When was the last report to the courts? And above all: What has been reported? [[Abg. Belakovich: That he is not yet de-adicated!]] Why was Islamic terrorist Mr. K. F. willing to take self-killing? Was there no sign of that? – There's a lot to work on. We all have to make sure that something like this never happens again. Yes, there may be a lack of information – in order to clarify this, there will be the Commission of Inquiry. Communication between the authorities and also with the other countries needs to be made even more effective. Our ministries must work hand in hand, they must have the necessary information. Our constitutional protection plays a crucial role, where all relevant intelligence information is merged. As a former Minister of the Interior, Mr Kickl, we have “thanks” to you – in quotation marks – that the credibility and trust in our BAT are so miscredited internationally. [[Abg. Kickl: Just keep doing that!]] [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Stefan:... the Slovaks report because they don't trust!]] You, Mr Kickl, have tried to make the BAT fit. [[Abg. Belakovich holds a panel with a photo of German chancellors Kurz and the inscription “short in the BAT-U committee: ‘No evidence that Kickl had made something illegal’” in the height.]] You have first Your own house destroyed with house searches by you, so you can then rebuild it after your guild. [[Call to the FPÖ: You have created the bounties!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: What are you talking about house search en? ...!]] The reform group you set up was definitely not capable of building a good, new and well organized BAT with new systems. [[Abg. Kickl: You don't know what you're talking about!]] This has also been noted by our subsequent non-party Minister of the Interior Peshorn. [[Abg. Kickl: But the mailbox has already worked, right?]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Call the FPÖ: Isn't this embarrassing to you?]] Systems are and may be faulty. You would not have been able to change this system permanently, and you owe it, unfortunately, that we have lost valuable time and valuable information. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Call to the FPÖ: That's incredible! Isn't that embarrassing to you?]] [[Further call to the FPÖ.]] We also need to improve the interfaces between the judicial system after arrest and to ask ourselves whether we also have to provide for changes in criminal law. [[Call the FPÖ: Help me: Who was Chancellor]] [[Abg. Deimek: We finally need to install a mail system in the police so that they can read something!]] At present, early dismissal is possible in the case of terrorists. Is that all right? Are there other needs? [[call to the FPÖ.]] How can we, even if a perpetrator has committed the imprisonment and is completely free to organise after-care, especially in the area of terrorists and radicalized persons? [[Call at the FPÖ:The ÖVP had already better appearances!]] I would like to go into the discussion and involve everyone without any shambles. [[Abg. All right, let's go!]] I would also like to invite those who may have made mistakes in their work in the past – their experience is also important to us! [[Abg. Belakovich: Go?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Kickl: It's no longer embarrassing to outdo what you're doing there!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: After your behavior?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] Finally, I would like to say: I do not want to imagine what would have been if the police and the rescue had not been on the spot so quickly if people with civil courage had not intervened, if not in the inns, hotels, theatres, private persons would have allowed fellow people shelter if tram drivers had not stayed outside the stations to pick up people and bring them out of the danger zone. The great solidarity and helpfulness of each individual present in this terrorist area in Vienna I shows: Neither origin nor religion, nor age, nor gender, were crucial to this cohesion. All those who were on site were united together, just as Austria is closed together. Our democracy is defensive, liberal and strong. We must not be separated from each other by false terrorist attacks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e7037	Next came Mr Reinhold Einwallner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e7058	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers! I am going today, as likely many of us, so that you can hardly find the right words for what happened on Monday. The events affect and make a little speechless. Our deep compassion applies to the family and friends of the victims and our thanks and great respect for all the forces on the ground, above all to the police who have prevented worse by their use. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We can also be proud, however, of the sign of the civil courage that has existed in addition to the use of the security forces. It has been mentioned several times today: The men who have rescued the shot at police from the danger zone are an example of many signs of the local population’s behaviour. This can make us proud, and we must say so too, and I am now also saying in this context that these men, who have saved the police, have also a migration background. With the perpetrators it is always explicitly mentioned, but the saviors also had a migration background. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! At the same time, it is our duty here in Parliament to do everything and to create all the conditions for preventing such a gentle and hideous terrorist attack in the future. In addition to the current investigations, it will also need clarity about the operations that happened in the run-up to the attack. In the last few days and hours, more and more details have become known, and we will have to follow them closely politically. Of course, Minister of the Interior, it must be clarified how it was possible that an information from Slovakia to our authorities that wanted to buy ammunition was transmitted, but then nothing was done. There is a political responsibility, Minister of the Interior: For this political responsibility you have to stand right here in the house. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] It is an imaginable bad crisis management when the first response is to shift responsibility. Unfortunately, this is what the Federal Chancellor does, and this is what the Minister of the Interior does: first, to shift responsibility towards the Ministry of Justice – that was the first step – and now to shift responsibility to one of your predecessors. You know that we weren't the biggest fans of Interior Minister Kickl, but this push-off of the responsibility you're doing here is in no relation; I almost want to call it great cows that the ÖVP is here and pretends to have no responsibility in the BAT. The BAT Examining Committee has shown one thing quite clearly: how the states in the BAT have been among foreign ministers for many years! [[It was in favour of SPÖ and FPÖ, as well as Neos representatives.]] Now, of course, one can discuss whether today is the right time for a mistrust request, ladies and gentlemen from the FPÖ, whether this is the right day for the third day of the state mourning. One thing, however, is out of dispute: On the content of your criticisms, we also say quite clearly that you have played your trust, Minister of the Interior. [[towards FPÖ]] We will also support this motion for a reluctance. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Because today so much has been said about Commissions of Inquiry, independent Commissions of Inquiry: If an ÖVP minister establishes an independent committee of inquiry, one becomes a bit nervous. I am a little afraid that someone from the ÖVP Lower Austria will then have the chair; then we already know where the whole thing will lead. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! One thing needs to be: It needs a reform of the BAT. We are also willing to participate in this reform process. But there is also the following to be taken into account: It is always the question of how to deal with reforms. Now, of course, there is this reform commission that you have used, Minister of the Interior, but for many weeks and months the opposition has been calling for a clear involvement of Parliament. There can only be a BAT reform if there is a corresponding parliamentary control; that is the key to our being a social democracy. Only with a clear parliamentary, strong control is there a reform of the BAT. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] Since the Federal Chancellor is back and Mr. Vice-Chancellor is there again – I am glad that it is convenient to follow the debate here in the house – I say the following: If I really understood you today, Mr. Vice-Chancellor Kogler – and I have listened very carefully – you have said that if someone has a size, he does not act with prompt debt allocations. [[Abg. Kickl:... does not even defend your own Minister of Justice!]] Mr Vice-Chancellor It seems clear to the Minister of the Interior and the Chancellor today that they do not have the necessary size. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] So you see, there is a need for action in many places. I believe that it is important that we also act quickly to implement reforms quickly, where there are weaknesses. But in all these areas where there is a need for action, one must always remain in the foreground: Austria is a strong, democratic country. We firmly resist violence and terror and will not depart from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e7149	Next speaker: Mr Hannes Amesbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e7170	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Dear Austrians! Of course, my thoughts are also on today's day with the victims of this cowardly Islamic terrorist attack and with their families. My thanks and my special appreciation apply to all the police and rescue workers who have given their best possible use of their lives to prevent worse. [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and the representatives of the NEOS.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, we must not go into the agenda. On the one hand, we need long-standing legislative changes in order to finally master the threat posed by Islamist extremism and terrorism, on the other hand, we need, of course, a complete clarification of the events of this disgraceful terrorist attack, and we also need a clarification of political responsibility. Minister of the Interior Nehammer! It is unworthy that, as an interior minister, you are now beating the third day like a drowning wild around you – in fact, the water is up to your neck –; You have nothing better to do than operate on debt allocations and point your finger at others. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This story of you, this fairy tale, Kickl would have destroyed the BVT and shaken confidence in the BAT, is not only a embarrassing distraction maneuver in a difficult time, it is also clear the untruth. This is also evident from the Berne Club's well-known report – these are our European partner services. [[Keeping a document in height]] There is stone and clear inside that the search in the BAT is not responsible for the loss of confidence. So listen. You end up with this fairy tale! Responsible was a wrong and defective IT system that was not suitable for the processing and storage of highly sensitive information. The computer, which was connected to the Internet as a whole, represented a serious vulnerability. All this has been determined here. [[Keeping the document just shown in height]] Why has the anti-virus program of the Russian company Kaspersky, which was used in the BAT, been removed from its system for months and years? – The reason: because this Russian antivirus program poses a high safety and spy risk. The security of buildings has been criticized. It was criticised that employees who were partly not sufficiently security-controlled could have taken their private mobile phones with them in secret spaces and could have taken photos of secret documents and highly sensitive information. It was also complained – and this is also known – that the entire BAT is dim like a sieve and that there is a climate of mutual distrust among the employees, ladies and gentlemen. These are the conditions in the BAT and - – that makes the - - the next unqualified call from the Wöhammer: [[Abg. Who did this? - The kickl!]] The kickl's to blame. The kickl wanted to turn this off, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The house search was arranged by the prosecutor's office. And what does Nehammer do in view of all these known conditions? – After many years of black Interior Minister Nehammer goes here, praises on every occasion – including in the Internal Committee on the reform of the BAT – until a few days ago, the good work of the BAT and has, until the last moment, put himself behind those who have borne the main responsibility for the conditions in the BAT. This is by far the most unable BAT director, Gridling, which you have defended until his retirement. This black network in the BAT has become known in the BAT investigation committee, whose investigation period dates back to 2008, I think. Mr Zadić will be able to confirm that she was a member of the Pilz list at the time of the investigation. Under the duty of truth, the Chancellor there confirmed that there is no evidence that Kickl has done anything illegal, ladies and gentlemen. [[The speaker presents a panel with a photo of German chancellor Kurz and the title “short in the BAT-U committee: “No proof that Kickl would have done something illegal”” on the speaker’s desk.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's the truth, and that's what you've given it for the best. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Because we are in the unqualified debt allocations, I must also say that it is unheard of that you have also shown your finger to Minister Zadić and to the Justice. Minister Zadić has weakened this from Coalitionsraeson a little, but in fact you are trying to clean yourself down. In July 2020, this later defendant tried to buy ammunition in Slovakia for a fully automatic storm rifle, and in July the Slovak police received information to our BAT. - Nothing happened! Justice has not been informed. There was no information to the justice! Justice was informed on the night of the attack. To point out to the justice of Nehammer, but also of Kurz: Yes, we will need legislative changes in dealing with juvenile offenders, especially with Islamists, but in this case we do not need to adapt the court. It has decided on the basis of the applicable laws. Apart from that, at the time of the attack, the suspect would have been on his feet for a long time. The advantage of early redundancies, however, was that there were probation charges for three years that would not otherwise have existed. If it had been reported to the judicial authorities about this attempt to buy ammunition, then this man would have been arrested again because of the probational charges he has violated and prevented the attack, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They have repeatedly said the untruth, even with regard to the alleged statements of the association of Derad regarding the deradicalization which has never existed. Minister of the Interior! They are politically responsible for these conditions and also for how they could come to that extent. You have to take the hat! They're unbearable as Minister of the Interior! – Yes, last-class is the behaviour of the Minister of the Interior, who points to all others, colleague Wöhammer, last-class is the behaviour of the ÖVP, colleague Wöginger! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wookers: Last-class! Last class!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Last-class is that!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: I'm called Wöginger! Take it! You learn that normally as a child!]] Finally, be ready to take the political measures, because this terror has hit us hard, but it did not come completely unexpected. [[Abg. Wöginger: Hide behind the immunity!]] For years, a blood trail of Islamist terrorism has been pulled through Europe, whether it was in Paris, whether it was in Nice, whether it was in Stockholm, whether it was in Berlin, whether it was in Madrid, whether it was in London or in other European cities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smart]] We have to act now! We do not now have to ask for any talk about integration or dialogue, we must now deal with unruly political hardship against this radical Islamism, ladies and gentlemen. That's the only answer these people understand.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e7333	I now give the floor to Mrs Agnes Sirkka Prammer. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e7354	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Please allow me to turn first to those who have been injured physically or psychologically who are still fighting for their lives, and to those who have lost loved ones: I'm so sorry you had to live through. I can't imagine how big your pain must be. Let me express my thanks to the forces, to those who have prevented worse by their heroic use! I stand here as one of 183, who have the power to shape those rules with which our society responds to such crimes. And as such I ask: What's missing? How could we have prevented what happened? Would we have been able to prevent it with other laws? Would we have been able to stop the culprit? Would there have been a possibility at all? What can we change? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] – We need to clarify all these questions now, and we must do so with peace and discretion, not with anger in the belly and not driven by actionism. That is why I believe that the setting up of the Commission of Inquiry is the right step. It is important that the Commission of Inquiry is jointly set up by the two ministries involved and that it is developed independently. It is not enough for each ministry to clarify its own procedures internally, it must also be clarified how its cooperation can be improved. We ask ourselves: Could this act have been prevented? – According to what we know so far, there would have been times when other decisions might have led to other results. But before we start looking for the guilty, let's first think about headlines like: Suspected terrorists! Islamists Arrested! – Let us be aware that this act is so shocking because it is unique because, in so many other cases, the right decisions have been made and the right measures have been taken. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Let's not forget one thing: Debt's the culprit. Debt is the man who has gone to the city centre until the teeth, has gone to people who wanted to spend a nice evening there with friends and who shot at these people – with the intention of killing as many of us as possible. This man's to blame! Please don't call him a terrorist or a suspect. Let's not give him this title. Let's call him what he is: He's a murderer! He killed four people in cold blood, and he wanted to kill a lot more. Terror is what action is doing with us, and on the other hand, we have to take care of it. Of course, we now have to ask whether we have the right rules. We need to ask whether the cooperation of the different authorities works. We need to ask whether we are using the right methods and whether we are funding them enough. We must draw the right conclusions from the results and we must put the right action. But what we cannot do is question our system in its principles. This system is what makes us as a society what we are: a community that confesses to the same basic principles, a community in which democracy and the rule of law, freedom and fundamental rights are above all. If we question this, then we have lost – and the terror has won. If we are driven by criminals and their crimes to act against our basic rules, we have lost – and we will not allow that!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e7422	Next speaker: Mrs Stephanie Krisper. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e7443	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear people in our country! What we experienced on Monday evening in our beautiful, lively, life-loving, worldly Vienna is a loathsome, despicable crime. What or whoever brought or helped the murderer to this crime will have to clarify the investigations of police and justice. Nevertheless, we will never understand this act, and we will not be able to reverse it either. Our thoughts are therefore among the four victims of death, the many injured ones, their families and friends, the shocked eyewitnesses who had to experience this act of blood. The four deceased do not bring back any investigation, not the young art student, who, in addition to her studies, has responded to her studies and will now no longer return to her family in Germany, not the 21-year-old boy, the 39-year-old man, nor the 44-year-old woman, whose shooting injuries were too heavy than that she could have been saved from our doctors in the hospital. These four dead don't bring anything and no one returns. The last thing their families and friends need is unfair debt allocations and disputes. The last thing people in this country need now is unreasonable debt allocations and disputes. The last thing that the police, who heroically risked their lives in this mission, now need, are unreasonable culprits and disputes. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] What we all need, Minister of the Interior, is an independent and complete investigation and are consequences according to the results. What we need is a state that ensures the security of people in this country – at the best possible level. That's the state's duty. The work of the last Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on the BAT has already made clear: The BAT cannot fulfil this obligation. The BAT is a building site, a staff and a structural one, and this has been a long time since party-political interests stood in front of the protection of the people in that country – for a long time – because party-political games in the Ministry of the Interior have been more important for decades, because there has also been more of a friend economy than competence – long in black, short in blue, now in Turquoise. This is the bitter reality. On Monday night must be finally over with this negligent handling of our security. The construction site in which the BAT was pushed and in which it was maintained by party policy has now become life-threatening. The BAT should not be there for a party, for not a party, but for our country. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] It is, Mr Amesbauer and others, very well equipped with the legal possibilities to protect all who live in Austria from what unfortunately became saddest reality on Monday. What it needs is that in the BAT there is no party book, but competence, throughout competence; Competence and a keen mind, which is not blinded by party political desires from above, but clearly pursues and defends the fundamental values of our liberal, democratic and open society as a guiding principle, no matter which side these fundamental values are threatened. And there is a sufficient need for many such competent employees to protect us, for example through the monitoring of hazards. Only then are we a defensive democracy. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We should start together, finally, to make the BAT what it is for, and that as soon as possible. We should not delay and paralyze this urgent necessary reform work further. We NEOS and I have always felt obliged to do so, and now all the more so and all the more urgent because of the view of the victims, their families and all the other people in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e7512	Next speaker: Mr Ernst Gödl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e7539	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! Dear Seers! The terrible act of three days ago has caused real and honest distress among all of us – distress, but partly also anger toward a young perpetrator who has shot, executed, or injured people indiscriminately, in order to let his aversion to our values and against our life model run free. It was certainly an attack of hatred for our democracy, an attack that has led to us all seeking to split ourselves as a society, but this attack has shown that we are a strong society – with strong intervention organisations that cannot be thanked enough. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] This attack has also shown that our country is on a good foundation and that our policy is also on a good foundation. I would like to stress it in particular: Starting from the Federal President to almost all representatives of the political parties, the right words have been found in this so bad situation for our country. I am particularly grateful to our Federal Chancellor, who has clearly formulated that our common enemy is Islamic extremism and that it is not a dispute between Christians and Muslims and is not a dispute between Austrians and migrants. [[Abg. Kickl: Ah really?- Oh, my God!]] No, it is a dispute between the well over 99 percent of those people who want to live together in peace and the greatest possible security, and those few but very dangerous persons who are deciding against our society and its achievements. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Of course, our world has always been exposed to changes and upheavals, only when all our areas of life are integrated into a global network. For several decades, migration has increasingly marked the countries of Western Europe. In every country of Western Europe, migrants represent at least one fifth of the population, i.e. 20 percent, or more, and this also applies to Austria. This makes you quick to answer the question: What about the integration of those who migrate to us or who were born in second generation with us? Each of us – each of us! – knows many examples of successful integration. “The standard is not the origin, but the attitude,” it aptly formulated a few days ago by the Upper Austrian head of state Stelzer. It is also important not to close your eyes to the fact that a certain proportion of the borders have become part of parallel companies. It was not until July this year that the Austrian Integration Fund presented an appropriate research report to highlight the challenges in dealing with the parallel societies. These parallel societies are often biotope for anti-democratic, anti-Semitic, homophobic or totalitarian world views, and thus we are in political Islam. The outcries in June of this year in favorites or also the recent attack of around 15 young people on a church, also in favorites, indicate that we must lead the fight against political Islam with all clarity and that all intolerants must not be given a spark of tolerance. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] However, the recent attacks from France to Vienna show that political Islam is expanding more and more in Europe. That is why it was absolutely right and important that our Minister of Integration Susanne Raab, as provided for in the government programme, set up an independent documentation centre for political Islam this summer. This is an important measure in the fight against a very dangerous ideology. And so that this is also clarified: The fight against political Islam is not a struggle against a religious community, it is not a struggle against Muslims, it is a struggle against Islamists. He is a struggle against an ideology that is directed against our basic democratic system, which is equipped with general rights of freedom, as the attack in Vienna has so clearly led us to face up to. This government and our Minister of the Interior – although not so long in office since the beginning of this year, and also facing a global pandemic – have already taken steps in the first months to combat political Islam; as has been said with the documentation agency or with the own task force against criminal Chechens, which was only set up a week ago. We tell every extremism, whether from left or right, quite clearly the struggle at, and I am amazed and also somewhat negatively surprised with what debt allocations are being done here to our Minister of the Interior, who in these difficult hours of the 2nd century. November has really shown the coordination of the forces who, of course, spent the whole night in the Ministry of the Interior and helped to end this barbaric act. This Minister of the Interior is to be warmly thanked. – Minister of the Interior, thank you for your commitment and for your steadfastness! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] I do not know, Mr Klubobmann Kickl, what measures you have taken in your admittedly short term in the field of Islamism. They have spent a lot of energy organizing an illegal house search in the BAT, as it turned out afterwards, and have therefore significantly weakened the BAT. And it is our Minister of the Interior who is now trying to rebuild it and bring it to a good course with a reform. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr SPÖ, what really surprises me is that you come here at this hour of the sovereign mourning, with your finger pointing guilt and actually want to support a mistrust request made by the FPÖ against the Minister of the Interior. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hafenecker]] [[Keeping the pointing finger in height]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] [[further calls to the SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] [[Further, continuing calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] It is not worthy of you to go here on this day, at this hour, where we have come together in the light of the incidents, with a guilty finger display on our Minister of the Interior and on the government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With all the need to hold harsh political debates here in this House, to exchange arguments and counter-arguments and to keep the democratic discourse between government and opposition alive, as elected representatives of the entire population of our Republic, we have the special task of fighting side by side and not side for peace in our society. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Ladies and gentlemen, peace does not result from the peacefulness of the peaceful ones. Peace arises only by the fact that the fragrants are stronger than the aggressive, that the tolerant are stronger than the fanatics, and that the democrats are stronger than the dictators and the demagogens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have been elected to work for this peace. – Let’s do this together!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e7688	The next speaker was Mrs Andrea Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e7709	Ladies and gentlemen! We had to experience in our wonderful city, where we are so proud of the peaceful togetherness in which there is so much joy of life, a cruel, a terrible night, as we had not had to experience it for a long time. We have to complain of dead people, we have to complain of injuries, and many people will not get the terrible pictures out of their minds for a long time. – Our compassion applies to the relatives, to the injured ones whom we want good and soon to improve; and also to those who have just escaped, who had to experience the cruel scenes, we wish to be able to deal with them soon. We thank the forces, the institutions of the city – the rescue, the fire brigade, the Vienna lines – who worked and helped tirelessly. It is bitter and at the same time very touching that parallel to this horrific horror but also the beautiful image of this city has shown itself: the willingness to help, the civil courage, the fore-da-being, the opening-up of the cultural institutions, the hotels, the spoiled hospitality. – It is touching, and thank you very much for that. This is our city. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and MEPs of Greens and NEOS.]] Of course, ladies and gentlemen, this is an attack on our basic democratic values, on our peaceful cooperation, on the way, our way of living a free life – and thus it is expressly said: where women too can lead a free, self-conscious and self-determined life. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We now have to restore the sense of security in our city and in our country, and therefore do everything to clarify and learn from it so that something like this can no longer happen. We have to take the consequences. A self-elected committee of inquiry is too little, dear Mr. Federal Minister, dear Mrs. Federal Minister. We have heard many appeals not to make any debt allocations, but it is a bit difficult to have such a debate when, in the next half, immediately debt allocations and debt deportations occur. This is what you, Minister of the Interior, and you, Federal Chancellor, have opened up this level of debate. Minister of the Interior! Today, we have expected you to inform us more, let Parliament know more than you have already said in press conferences. We have expected you to inform Parliament, which authorities have had what information and how these authorities have responded on the basis of this information. You didn't tell us. In this situation, ladies and gentlemen, we would not have tabled a motion of censure to the Minister of the Interior today, but, Mr Federal Minister, I must tell you that it is not enough for you to actively express your confidence.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e7764	Next speaker: Mr Michael Schnedlitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e7802	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! It has come to a cowardly attack in which four people have lost their lives and have been injured innumerably. After not even 36 hours it was clear that this cowardly attack could have been prevented and should have been prevented. Minister of the Interior, I would have expected at least today To the survivors, express your apologies regarding this failure that you have the size and apologise for it. You didn't even make it to a lip confession, although I have to tell you quite openly that the only honest excuse would have been your resignation today. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Instead of an excuse, you stage a huge-scale cover-up action, a cover-up action in which you spread misinformation and among the people from public press conferences to this day in Parliament. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] They act as fighters against terrorism, although in Austria it is already known that the terrorist has long been known to you in the ministry and has been under observation and you should have pulled it out of traffic for a long time. You start a strategy, according to which all are guilty, just you yourself not. First of all, your own coalition partner, the Minister of Justice, is to blame. They are a strong Minister of the Interior who calls for the fight against terrorism – and who then cleans himself up with a pregnant woman in terms of responsibility. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And how does the Minister of Justice react? – She draws up a paper proving that your authority has been shown to be informed of the arrest, and this paper brings down your construction and you fall. Ladies and gentlemen, at least in this case, the Minister of Justice has earned an applause. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Next, Herbert Kicklals comes up with your predecessor, and you're trying to cheer him off your guilt and your failure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] They span a construction of stories – of loss of trust, of services, of BAT, of communication lines with Slovakia. And now I take out a paper for you – by the way, this is the paper that brought you to sweat and stutter yesterday in front of all of Austria, when the abdominal breathing, the gassing, was obvious, because with this paper, your construction is broken down – which proves that not only the BAT and the services were involved in communication with Slovakia, but also Europol and your Federal Criminal Office. [[Keeping a document in height]] Thus, this construction has done absolutely well. We now have black on white. I don't know. You next construct down the stream, namely that the Slovaks are guilty. Slovakia, ladies and gentlemen, would have informed the Minister too late of the incident in Slovakia, which is only in October. By the way, you have also said that to several journalists. I hope you can remember this misinformation. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== Your authority was informed by Slovakia, and not only that – and now it comes –: ==References== September, over 50 days ago, your authority reported back to the Slovaks, I quote: “The said person” – with full name, place of birth, current address of residence and so on – “is known to the Austrian police in connection with terrorism”, and he was sentenced according to § 278b, terrorist association. At the latest 50 days ago, you should have intervened, Minister, but you did not. [[call to the FPÖ]] They still disperse conscious misinformation in Parliament. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I could continue this misinformation forever now, and I promise you, we will do so the next few days, weeks and months, because both the victims and the Austrian population deserved the truth after such a gentle attack, and not a cover-up action by the person responsible for the failure and the guilty, which is you, Mr Minister. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Save You're looking at your strategy: The Minister of Justice is to blame, Kickl is to blame, the Slovaks are to blame! if you only have to look in the mirror to find the true debtor and the true responsible for this failure! In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say three very simple points to you. First: Do not continue to endanger our Austrian security, but step back! Secondly, Do not continue to hinder the investigations in the terrorist case by placing a fog veil on the facts with your spread half-truths and your spread untruths and your cover-up action! Thirdly, Minister for the Interior: Her police officers proved character on the night of the terrorist attack when they went to the fire. Be the first to prove the turquoise ÖVP character and step back!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e7920	Mr Michel Reimon has now been reported on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e7942	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! As a European speaker of the Greens, I would also like to talk about a broader basis of the whole. Europe as a whole will be the goal of attacks, the whole world, if you take it carefully. These attacks are of an alarming frequency. As a member of the European Parliament in Brussels, I have experienced the attack on the airport there, in Strasbourg that on the Christmas market, which was 2016 and 2018; 2020 now in Vienna. This has a frequency that is terrifying, and this is the case because the perpetrators have a strategy and intend to do it. The Islamic State has written all of this in a paper: how to proceed, how to do these attacks and what to achieve with them – to spread fear and terror and to divide, disperse and stir up the population. What happens is targeted and will continue so. They have also changed the strategy, because of course Europe is responding to it. After every attack, what happens here: You look at what you can do and Europe reacts. The terrorists also react, the attacks are getting smaller and smaller. It's something like it was on the 11th. September 20 people get four planes, thank God is almost impossible to carry out, and now individuals take a gun and shoot in the crowd, because it spreads just as much fear and terror. This is strategy, and if that doesn't work, they take a truck and drive into the crowd or take a knife and plug a passerby, a passerby. [[Call the FPÖ:As in Graz!]] That is almost impossible to prevent in this form, and that is intention. This strategy, that killing, has, as has been said, the goal of dispersing people. The goal is not the dead themselves, the goal is society, a society in which women have rights, in which gays, lesbians, transgenders and so on are respected, a society that is designed to disperse. They divide society into unbelievers, foreigners and anything else to split. We have a name for these people in Europe: These are fascists. These are fascists that we must fight, and they also support each other. You have to say that. We also have right-wing extreme terror, which makes exactly the same thing, which skinns in exactly the same track that wants to achieve exactly the same, namely this division – they say foreigners and not unbelievers to it. This is the same terror we have to fight. Whoever supports this division is participating in the game of these terrorists. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This applies to media, some of which have been seriously neglected a few days ago and others have worked very well; this applies to us in politics if we take part in it and play this game; this applies to us if we do not protect the Constitution in order to combat terrorism – it is not for nothing the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Terrorism. That is why we must do it: protect this free society, which guarantees the constitution, from these fascist terrorists, whoever they are. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If the terrorists have a strategy, we also need one, and in that we have to think more than just: How can you prevent a single, small attack, how can you eliminate this whole scene? – We need a broader, global strategy, we must oppose the allies these people have. In two years a football world championship will take place in Qatar, and hopefully Austria will be qualified and play there. But like we there with a regime that finances these people, who take Sharia as the basis of his government, takes as the basis of his laws, takes it as the basis of his discrimination, we look at it. We cannot then stand there and say, yes, we praise all of this, we may support all the oil dictatorships, but there we criticize! – No, no, as Europe, we need a great and broad strategy against these people. We demonstrate every week in Vienna for the release of Raif Badawi, a Saudi-Arab activist who has done nothing but demand democracy in Saudi Arabia. He sits in prison for life and is whipped out by a regime that is hoped for by European governments, who then say they want to fight Islamism. [[It is a surprise to the Greens and to representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Members of the House of Representatives, Kassager and Stefan.]] Yes, fight him where he is financed! If we want to be active, if we want to fight this, then we have to support democracy movements, then we have to build schools, then we have to build universities, we have to fight poverty, we have to fight discrimination in these countries, and this must also be a European strategy. I'll tell you something: Let's go out, let's go into the offensive, let's not just be in the defense, let's finally make active politics in this world against these regimes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e8004	I have a word for business treatment. – Please, Mr Klubobmann Leichtfried.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e8031	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I have now listened very interested to Mr Reimon's speech and also to some others before, because the great commonness and the interdependence have been conjured. I believe that we all share the view that we are one of the most important debates that are necessary in view of these terrible events in Austria. It's Mr. Vice-Chancellor there, it's the Minister of the Interior there. The Federal Chancellor is not here, and I think that does not correspond to the use for this debate. This is already a disdain for our house, ladies and gentlemen. [[Complaints with SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS.]] I therefore make the request in accordance with § 18 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Federal Chancellor. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e8070	I ask whether there is still a point of order. - That's not the case. This request should then be put to the vote. We agreed at the Presidential Conference that in this debate the members of the government who speak will also be present in the National Council during the entire debate. This was an agreement we reached at the Presidential Conference. [[Federal Chancellor Kurz enters the hall.]] [[Abg. Haubner: He's already here! He's here anyway!]] However, the session must not be interrupted for a vote either, because the Federal Chancellor is back in the hall. Mr Klubobmann, are you withdrawing the request?
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e8111	Madam President. I am now withdrawing the request, because the Federal Chancellor is back, but I would appeal to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to remain here until the end of the debate. It would be giddy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e8143	Then I will continue the debate. The next speaker is Mr Christian Stocker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e8167	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, especially highly esteemed Minister of the Interior, for whom this debate, as it was led by the opposition, is probably not only difficult to endure, but also, if I look at the motion for a reluctance, completely undeserved! [[Abg. Listen: Ha! Ha!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Seers! We are on the third day of the state mourning and all are still under the impression of this terrible terrorist act, which has pulled a blood trail through the city center of Vienna, has cost four people lives and left many injured. My compassion and participation apply to the survivors. I should also like from this point of view to wish all those injured a speedy improvement and a complete recovery. Terror, this is an attempt to divide and insecure a society, a country, a state, to undermine democracy and the values of our society and to instrumentalize people for the purposes of this terror. The Federal Chancellor, Mr. Vice-Chancellor and many other representatives of this state have found the right words for this – words that flow into it and end up saying that we will not allow all that is meant for terrorism here. I do not think the right words have found the opposition today, especially you, Mr Klubobmann Kickl. Just you complain of the failure of the BAT, just you complain that the BAT does not work as it might work. That's where I say, let's remember together! Was it not you who caused this Razzia, which was also described as a march in the BVT? [[Abg. Worm: You weren't in Parliament yet!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Jessas!]] – “Jessas na!” is the right word for it, I agree with you with the exception. - Jessas! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: (a panel with a photo of German chancellors Kurz and the inscription “short in the BAT-U committee: “No proof that Kickl would have done something illegal”) Read ahead! Can you read?]] Mr Klubobmann Kickl, we still do not know what you were looking for in the BAT, but we know what you have found. We know what you've found, little to nothing. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] But you've already achieved something, it wasn't like you didn't do anything with your work as Minister of the Interior. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] – Appreciated Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, even if you are still so excited – I am a little surprised at this aid for the FPÖ – but remember They are also against who was against the danger of carrying a foot-belt! Go a little bit inside, even that would be appropriate at this point! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But back to the FPÖ and to the processes during your time in the Interior Ministry, dear Mr. Klubobmann Kickl: I said you didn't find anything, but you achieved something during your work as a minister. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] After all, you have achieved the unlawful suspension of the head of the BVT, then have joined him back together and said that you will work together – what you are now blaming the Minister of the Interior. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] They were also the Spiritus Rector of a later considered illegal house search in the BAT. All of this, of course, does something with an institution such as the BAT and also with the employees of the BVT. [[Abg. Kickl: I've never seen you anywhere else; I think they've been looking for a volunteer who's ready to tap this stupidity! The price is yours!]] [[Further call and acclaim at the FPÖ.]] – Look, you can qualify as you like, but you said in your speech, “the truth hurts”. You have to endure a little pain now, too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I tell you, if you, as a minister, had opted to approve a fantasy uniform for a Secretary-General, to exchange a carpet, to also install the police cavalry from me, then we would have all of this as: [[Abg. Listen: You're telling us there...!]] Except for fees!, you can say – with fees and even with this proverb, your party has a certain experience. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Sobotka claps!]] - Not just. However, it is true that your activity called into question the entire BAT. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kickl and Mr Deimek.]] The status of this facility has been damaged nationally and internationally and the function of this facility is at risk. You as Minister of the Interior, Mr Klubobmann, were neither right nor order nor security in good hands. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl taps the sleep several times with the index finger.]] - Please a little more consistency! If I now look at this motion of censure – even if you have experience in it, you have received seven mistrust requests – yes, I am right, a little more content, ladies and gentlemen – then I wonder if it is shown here that debt allocations should not take place today, what this mistrust against the Minister of the Interior is different from the greatest possible debt allocation in this House. [[Abg. Lausch:... but also voted against!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: Quite a weak speech!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] What else is this, if not the greatest possible debt allocation, and that undeserved and unwarranted and yet with a sequence which I have not yet heard and noticed in this form? In this mistrust, you say that the management and thus the Minister of the Interior should be denied confidence because his failure cost people's lives. I say to you that we can talk about political responsibility and a mistrust is a democratically legitimate means, but you are using this means to put under a personal responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, to a minister who has proved successful in this crisis. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: There is no at all...!]] If I say that this minister has proved himself, then we have heard today that this use of the security forces has gone well on this terrible day. [[Abg. Kickl: I think you've never told the truth before!]] It was the Minister of the Interior who led this, and together with the Minister of Defence, and I would also like to involve the Minister of Justice here, that they managed to manage this threatening situation half well. 9 minutes are too long, but I don't want to imagine what would have happened if it had lasted longer. In cooperation with the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice, this Republic has worked. This is due to the Federal Government and also to the Minister of the Interior. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] While the Federal Government and the Minister of the Interior have had to face many crises since the government took office in these difficult times, you, Mr. Klubobmann Kickl, have caused the crises primarily in your term of office and have not dealt with them well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we are facing these crises now, I can tell you quite openly that you can already complain that in the BAT not everything is going well – and many see it that way, and probably you will have to have consequences there – but one thing is also to say: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hafenecker]] [[Abg. Worm: Ah!]] It's like a vase. It's very easy, with just one stroke a shredded pile is executed, but it's very laborious and very long to put it together again. Often cracks remain to stay with this picture. That's what you're responsible for. It's from your work as Minister of the Interior. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by thanking the security forces for the rescue services, including civil society, which has made a significant contribution, which has also come together in the days following this attack and has shown one thing: This society will not be divided, it will not be insecure, and this democracy and the foundation of values will not be shaken. Together we will not give any room to terrorism and hatred in this Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e8491	Mrs Belakovich spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e8515	Madam President. My predecessor from the ÖVP came here and claimed that the then Minister of the Interior, Kickl, had caused the BAT to storm. - That's wrong. There was a legal procedure and it was so that the prosecutor's office waslord of the event. On the sides of the ÖVP – only for your information, you can also read it – her then Secretary General Nehammer said exactly that in a speech. He said: ‘There is a rule of law. There is a report from the Ministry of Justice, in which [...] many questions of opposition are addressed in advance, namely that this procedure has been carried out by the rule of law, that the public prosecutor was the master of the proceedings, and that the officials employed by the EGS – the street crime deployment group – “ have merely accompanied the measure and all the seizures have been carried out by the prosecutor or by experts commissioned by it.” So it was not a storm, so this statement has been incorrect.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e8553	Next speaker: Mrs Selma Yildirim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e8574	Madam President. Dear Federal Government! High house! Dear Seers! The terrorist attack on Monday evening in Vienna has hit me – like all of us – deeply. First of all, I would like to express my compassion to the victims and wish the injured soon to recover. In many places, almost reflexively a question arises: What is wrong with us in Austria – but also other countries – not being spared from such cowardly and loathsome acts of violence? But be careful: Not the way of our life is to question, we must not be looking for mistakes in our way of living! On the contrary, we can be proud that we are living in a society in which tolerance and freedom exist. The center of a nonviolent co-operation is; these achievements characterize people. We can be proud that our work or our way of life has led us all to feel that we cannot leave people alone in economic, health or emotional crisis situations and that everyone in need can rely on other people. All the forces have done great work. A warm thanks to the police forces, the doctors, the nurses, the psychosocial services, the public drivers who safely brought people home. They all did not think of themselves and their own well - being, but first of all of those who need help, and this help was provided. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Other pictures and reports of this terrible evening have also deeply touched me, for example, pictures of those young men who bravely demonstrated their humanity this evening; they have provided first aid to an injured policeman and a woman, using their own lives without long thinking. These are images of a civil society that has held together in great need and has been there for each other, no matter what religion, nationality or origin. That's the Austria I know and love. [[We welcome the SPÖ and Mr Bürstmayr and Mr Prammer.]] This is Austria, which has also given me, as a little child, a chance to go my way from Turkey to Austria by my parents. I would like to thank many of those who have supported and strengthened me in this regard. It is, as you have often said, not the time of debt allocations. All the more so, I am surprised that, despite all the grueling words of my previous speakers, especially from the ÖVP, there is a hack, that there is still a blame that becomes more and more obvious that just a day after this terrible evening in Vienna, debt allocations happen, who has done what works too little well. The Minister of Justice was more or less demanded, and it was really a sad spectacle to see how the Minister of the Interior then had to row back step by step. It seemed to me that this was a billing of the time of the coalition between ÖVP and FPÖ, the last one and a half years. But what we need now is not debt allocations. We need full information, an error analysis and then determined action so that something like this doesn't happen again and that the population is best protected. How could it happen that a pre-punished perpetrator travels to Slovakia, wants to buy ammunition there, is prevented by the authorities there, but apparently not all alarm bells are ringing at us in the Ministry of the Interior? How can it be that this terrorist was cared for and yet no one has suspected of the coming act? What about the resources? What networks does IS have in Austria and how can we destroy them? How can we prevent radicalization? We must clarify all these questions and draw the right conclusions from them. I do not think it is right for us to call for even stronger laws in this sad phase, for even more measures; yet, we must allocate the already well-functioning administrative devices and ministries with sufficient resources to ensure that laws that we tighten from one to another are implemented at all, so that they can develop life at all. Let's not yell at even more intensification. We know from many, many expertises that even harder penalties do not prevent such terrible acts from happening. And very important: There must be no millimeters of tolerance for those who have our democracy, our Society and with it all attack us. On the other hand, we must proceed with all the means that our rule of law provides. Let us not let terrorists divide our society, let us not allow this cowardly attack, this attack on our liberal democracy, this attack on our free society, this attack on our values negatively influences our living together, we show that we are people! Vienna holds together, Austria holds together: Together we are stronger than blind hatred and wrong violence!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e8647	Mr Reinhard Eugen Bösch is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e8668	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Quite honestly: Those who have observed the trend in migration in recent years and decades with open eyes, for whom this sad event from Monday can be no surprise. For years and decades, we liberals have been warning against allowing uncontrolled mass immigration. The other parties, especially the ÖVP, negate that. For decades, the ÖVP has put in place the Minister for the Interior, Mr Vorsprecher der ÖVP, and the Minister for Integration without taking effective action in these areas. [[towards Abg. Stocker]] This missing immigration policy, ladies and gentlemen, is the cause of many problems that our society has today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can also say: another sad event like this; this is just a matter of time, here with us in Austria or somewhere in Europe. We must never feel secure, and we must finally take effective action. The last one to take effective action, Mr Presidencies of the ÖVP, was Minister of the Interior Kickl. [[Cheerfulness and contradiction with representatives of the ÖVP.]] It has established exit centres, exit centres that have made it clear that it is not possible to hide Austrian citizenship, only in order to achieve social benefits of this Republic. He has made it clear that there is a need for clear criteria of integration in order to obtain Austrian citizenship. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] He has also made it clear how important it is to lead to the recognition of Austrian citizenship again when it is proved to be the same after some time of being here with us in the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, if we fail to finally take intense and clear steps on these issues, this Republic will be lost, and with it Europe too. Ladies and gentlemen, if Europe does not become a fortress, it will become a ruin. Minister of the Interior Nehammer, if you want to become the second best Minister of the Interior of the Republic, then you have to take a bit of belting. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e8722	Next speaker: Mrs Pia Philippa Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e8747	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! How does one begin such a speech after such a terror, after one night? First of all, of course, with the sincere and profound compassion with all the victims and their relatives. This is a pain – it has already been addressed today – which one cannot imagine, but also wants to imagine less. It is a silence that occurs after such a terror that is unpleasant, which is cutting, but it is also a silence that is heard as soon as possible. That is why it is good and right for the National Council to meet here today and have a meeting on the subject. It is good and right because people need to find stability in democracy as soon as possible, and above all stability in freedom of expression – a free expression of opinion that will not be suppressed by terror and violence. It is good and right that critical questions are now also asked here, because there are some questions that people have rightly deserved to answer, because there are some questions that are really burning that are actually obvious, namely whether perhaps in the follow-up of the information transfer everything has not worked perfectly. That night – on this devastating terrorist night – the first catastrophic videos were already coursed. You like to stand up to the videos as you would like. More than 20,000 files have been added to the police. I personally don't think it's right to think about filming in such a situation. But this also shows how people are already stunned when it comes to terror, violence, victims or potentially dead people, as in this case. But what you have seen quite clearly on this video is executive, military and rescue forces that have worked very well. What did you see? – People have been seen risking their own lives to save lives, and they have managed to turn off a perpetrator or the perpetrator after only 9 minutes. You can rightly be proud of that. Austria may rightly be proud of this. Vienna has numerous stages, but Vienna has no stage for terror, for terrorists. I have to say one thing: In such a situation, it is important to reaffirm cohesion and, above all, the strength in humans, as well as the cohesion that has perhaps been overstepped over the last months – but it is also important – to bring it back to its limits. Vienna has already responded on the night of terror, no matter how bitter the hours were, in its own way, with its own original Viennese soul. I have been thinking for a long time – my previous speakers, the club women, have already mentioned it, Vienna has developed its own “Je suis”, its own “Pray for” – because it is a language that is of course not appropriate for the House, but I think if there are many people who have taken courage in this sentence during the night of terror, which this sentence has given power in the night of terror, then it is here in the House – and I think who, if not just me as a wild Member, can say it? – absolutely appropriate and correct, even if it does not correspond to the language of the House, but you can say it as it is, and my Viennese is unfortunately not enough for it, so I say it as I would say : [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger:... say it!]] [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: (executing the thumb-up gesture with both hands) Say it!]] Shut up, you son of a bitch! [[Call the SPÖ:Woohoo!]] [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and SPÖ and NEOS representatives.]] Austria has its own original Viennese soul. If this is something that gives people the strength to carry on, then it is so, then this sentence remains true to us, and that is absolutely right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Austria does not provide a stage for terrorism or a stage for terrorists! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e8835	I will not, of course, call for this in this context. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] I would just like to make it clear that I am going to do this only because of this. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Wolfgang Gerstl is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e8871	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! It was not only 4 hours before the lockdown, it was also the 2nd. November, on which the Catholic Christians celebrate aller souls. On the Day of All Souls they commemorate the dead and their souls, but the All Souls' Day is also a day of hope for Christians to hope for resurrection. [[Call the FPÖ:Yes!]] For me as a politician, hope is a task which I would like to outline in several points: first, a task to work out everything that has led to this terrorist attack; second, a mission to give no place to the dangers in Austrian society; third, a mission to defend us to our historical roots, to our spiritual-religious and moral heritage, as stated in the Charter of the European Union; fourth, a mission to defend every attack on our values, on our democracy and the rule of law; fifth, a mission to stand together precisely for these values and for this democracy; and a mission that such moments, which we were able to experience days before this terrorist attack, must have to experience in a church in the 10th century. District and also in St. Stephen’s Cathedral, where young people have tried out of an Islamic zeal to destroy the institutions of a Catholic church, are not allowed to pass. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: The colleague Gerstl would be a super mayor of Vienna!]] Sixteenths it is a task to question how it could be possible for someone born in Austria to be raised in our country with all the educational and social benefits, to develop so much hatred against our society that he killed four people and, in part, seriously injured 22 people. [[Abg. Smoking: These are all demands on themselves!]] I would particularly like to thank the members of the Federal Government who, this night, in this situation, together with all the security forces, have shown a very warm and committed intervention. [[Ah-Rufe at the SPÖ]] I would like to thank you for your mandate that the members of the Federal Government should do everything possible to prevent such attacks in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoke]] On that night from the 2nd to the 3rd. All of Austria has seen that in this crisis situation, all the security forces – from the police to the rescue to the prosecutor – worked together perfectly. Ladies and gentlemen! It is important that we look to the future on this day of mourning, and that is why I put forward two motions for resolutions. The first motion for a resolution is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Belakovich: They already exist, don't they?]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Smoking: Do you already have a name for the...?]] This is the first motion for a resolution to take account of all the events of the Second World War. In November and also from time to time, work accordingly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] The second motion for a resolution, which I am submitting, concerns prevention of the future. motion for a resolution by Mr August Wöginger, Mr Sigrid Maurer, Mr BA, colleagues on ‘the barbaric terrorist attack on the capital of Vienna’ The National Council wants to decide: “The National Council strongly condemns this terrible act of terror and expresses its thanks to the security forces, rescue forces and medical personnel. It invites the Federal Government, after intensive evaluation and assessment of the existing framework conditions, with the involvement of relevant experts and on the basis of the Commission of Inquiry surveys, to quickly present a package of measures to strengthen the prevention and defence of terrorism and extremism." [[Abg. Lightenness: That doesn't even clap...!]] High house! As a Parliament, let us show that we stand together in crisis situations. This is more important for Austria than to beat political small money. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[12:53]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e9133	The two motions for resolutions have been properly tabled and are under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Nikolaus Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e9157	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government, especially Minister of the Interior! Minister of the Interior, we are going to vote against the motion for a resolution. She's been brought in, not agreeing today, but I'll tell you right away: Don't get me wrong! This does not mean that confidence in you is particularly great, which means only that we are convinced that this day today, on which we still have three days of sovereign mourning, is a day of It is sorrow and not a day to agree to this motion for a reluctance. [[Congratulation with NEOS, ÖVP and Greens.]] This does not mean that what you have been trying and proposing over the last few days is sufficient. You can now show that you take this seriously with the Enlightenment. You can show that you are really taking it seriously, because what you have done so far is certainly not enough – and the two motions for resolutions tabled by the government parties, Mr Gerstl, are certainly not enough. Mr Federal Minister, I have three demands for you, which I hope you will take with you. First: It needs a genuine independent committee of inquiry, where the opposition can determine the chairman of this committee of inquiry, a committee of inquiry which does not cover up which does not attempt to divert in any way – and, Minister of State, if that does not happen, I am telling you now, then we will distrust you. [[Congratulation with the NEOS]] Secondly, there is a need for full transparency and full access to all documents relating to the last months. Even if this is not granted to us – say: full file inspection, full transparency; we know it from various investigation committees when blackened files come – if that does not happen, then we will distrust you. And last one, Minister of State: If the suspicion hardens, if it turns out at the end that due to errors in your place of business, this attack could not be prevented, then I expect you to withdraw by yourself. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Mr Federal Minister, if this does not happen, I guarantee you that we will express your distrust.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e9233	No one has been reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. Before we enter the voting process, I ask the clubs whether we can come to the vote or whether they want to interrupt a short session. – This is not necessary, so I will start the voting process immediately. So we come to the votes. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Herbert Kickl, colleagues on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister of the Interior in accordance with Art. 74 para. 1 Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this paragraph. I expressly note the presence of half of the Members of Parliament in the terms of the Constitution quoted above. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to do so. [[Abg. Martin Graf: This is the moral majority!]] – This is the minority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr August Wöginger, Mr Sigrid Maurer, and others, on the establishment of an independent committee of inquiry. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? - That's the majority. [[107/E]] We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Wöginger, Mr Maurer, Mr Maurer, on 'the barbaric terrorist attack on the capital of Vienna'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is accepted by a majority. [[108/E]] [[12:57:45]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-05-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00060_d8e9298	I announce that, at today's meeting, self-employed applications 984/A to 992/A(E) have been submitted. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 12.58 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
