ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e459	I'll open the 25th. Meeting of the National Council. Deputies Kira Grünberg, Nurten Yılmaz, Dr. Reinhard Eugen Bösch, Mag, are reported as prevented. Gerald Hauser, Mag. Philipp Schranglund Mag. Faika El-Nagashi. Assignments
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e505	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e1097	I would also like to refer the motion for a resolution 488/A(E) to the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs and requests 489/A and 490/A to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e1122	A consensus was reached between the members of the Presidential Conference on the design of the debate. The following explanatory statement was agreed: At this first reading, one speaker per group is to speak 5 minutes in accordance with the rules of procedure of the National Council. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time of those Members who do not belong to a club, five minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft and the speaking times that have just been presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[21:16:34]] 1. Point First reading: Request by Dr Pamela Rendi-Wagner, MSc, Herbert Kickl, Mag. Beate Meinl-Reisinger, MES, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Constitutional Act (B-VG) and the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Reg. 1975) (421/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e1174	We come to the only item on the agenda. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Kai Jan Krainer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e1204	Parliament has taken very unusual measures in recent weeks. Covid-19, this pandemic, has Austria and it was good and right that Parliament has taken very, very many measures, most of them by the way, unanimously. We are talking about the possibility that, for example, companies will not have to pay their taxes now, but only later, i.e. get a tax allowance. The same applies to social security contributions. We have a hardness fund for small businesses, for EPUs, which is set up at WKO. We have a hardening fund for farms running through the AMA. We have a hardening fund for the artists, we have a family hardening fund. Through the AMS we have the Covid-19 short work as a new, never-daily program. We have the Cofag, an instrument that helps companies at a first stage to accept loans on very favourable terms and whose volume alone amounts to EUR 15 billion. All these different packages, and I didn't even list all, have a volume of 38 billion euros. This is more than half of the tax revenue remaining to the federal government. Of 100 euros of taxes paid in Austria, only around 60, 65 euros remain with the federal government, the rest goes to countries and municipalities and the European Union. This is more than half of the total tax money we have on and on in one year. It is good to put these measures in place, but it is also necessary, of course, because it is an extraordinary measure and, above all, an extraordinary financial commitment, that control – in addition to legislation – is also carried out, and there are exceptional control measures for these extraordinary measures. That is why not only we Socialists, but also the liberals and NEOS propose that we set up a Covid-19 committee in Parliament, which controls all these measures. Why a committee that controls all measures? – Because it is not only a matter of whether a single measure works, but in practice we also know that, for example, individual companies are using four measures. The AUA, for example, – I assume without knowing it – requested tax subsidies, possibly applying for social security contributions, but at least short work and, at least, assistance from the Cofag. That is, she has asked for help from four different pots. It is also a question of Parliament seeing and checking whether the aid comes where it is needed, and that is why it needs this committee, which has the overall view of these Cofag measures. That is why, as opposition parties, we propose this Covid-19 committee. In this committee, all reports already listed in the legislation must be merged. There all the decision-makers – not only the ministers, but all the decision-makers; we have heard and know that many of these measures are distributed, that is, to the WKO, to the AMA, to the labour market service, to the ÖHT, to which OeKB are located, that is, to come to many different areas – and to the Members about the measures they are setting up, talk and answer – whether they are working, which internal controls exist et cetera. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] This means that all decision-makers must come to the committee. The next thing is that the Committee must, of course, also be able to request all the documents from these institutions. If the Committee says that he needs to look at these documents, he would like them to, they should also be obliged to present them. The third thing is: This committee should be media-public while respecting data protection. It is clear that data protection must always be protected, but of course the public has a right to know what is happening to this 38 billion euros; therefore, the third point is that the media must be public. We are willing to talk about minority rights, so that not only a majority decides who should come to the Committee, but also a minority is entitled to do so. We are therefore quite ready to talk about it. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] But, of course, one thing is that this committee is being used very quickly, because we in Parliament have to get an overview of the measures that exist very quickly. I look forward to the constructive discussions that have already been announced, and to the fact that we can use this Covid-19 committee very quickly and that it can start its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e1280	Mr Klubobmann, August Wöginger, has now come to speak. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e1304	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Krainer, it is very nice that you are ready to talk about minority rights, in an application for an amendment to the Federal Constitutional Act. – So this is also a strange access to this issue. We have said that we are ready to talk about the establishment of a committee in which all the Covid measures come together. However, I repeat what I have said in the presidency, and I would like to ask the opposition parties once again and again: Also use your right to send members to the Cofag Advisory Board! One thing we do not understand is that there must be, as it were, a control in Parliament – we can talk about it – but we are not prepared to go to a body in which guarantees, grants, liability for the undertakings and in which, as it were, we are directly involved in the decisions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] That is something we do not understand, and therefore again our call and request that the opposition also send members to the Cofag Advisory Board. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Secondly, it has now been said: Of course, banking secrecy and data protection must be safeguarded. There is a general proposal for a public committee, but one can decide by a majority on each committee to hold it public, so it must not be a general public committee from the outset. Thirdly, I mean, it is a bit of a negotiation offer, if you say here now that you can talk about minority rights, because, according to this proposal, a single Member should have the right to request files! So what we certainly do not want is a research committee light or a second rail for an investigation committee. At the time, we negotiated minority law in the Committee of Inquiry for over a year. So you can't go there and say, Holladrio, we are amending the Federal Constitutional Act, so that the rights of the mandaters go far beyond what we have in a country. Year as minority law has been negotiated with the Committee of Inquiry. – So we have a very clear rejection to make. We're ready to talk, we can also start the talks. If we hope to be sent to the Cofag Advisory Board, then there is nothing against the end of the day that we will also set up a committee in which all the Covid measures will be dealt with, including all the departments. I would also like to mention: We have already committed the reporting obligation to the Budget Committee in many laws, in all the measures – and this is also the case for the Security Fund – that we have set up here. That means that there is also a reporting obligation to the Committee on Budgets on the major measures, but if that is the case, we can talk about summing up all of this in a committee and holding the discussions there. We are at the beginning of this debate, but I ask you again and I ask you and ask: If you also occupy the Cofag Advisory Board, then you are also directly involved in the decisions!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e1364	The word is MMag. DDr. Hubert Fuchs. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e1389	Mr President. In difficult times, a national shoulder closure is needed. We've heard that many times. However, during the last meetings with the government parties, we have had to realize that this national epaulment is one-sided. No one understands why the government parties with the first Covid-19 collection law have suspended the compensation provisions of the Epidemic Act. No one understands why the government parties with the Covid-19 package have created such an inconceivable application bureaucracy. No one understands why the hardening fund needs to be handled by the Chamber of Commerce or by the agricultural market Austria, and the construction of the Cofag with the toothless advisory board as a fig leaf does not understand anyone either. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Margreiter.]] This Cofag manages guarantees of inconceivable EUR 15 billion. The managing directors – a black one, a green one – can grant up to 10 million euros without dealing with the Supervisory Board, until 25 million euros the Supervisory Board has to deal with this and over 25 million euros will be dealt with by the Advisory Board. To this sum of 15 billion euros: You can't imagine anything. The national defence budget is one sixth of this sum – just so that you can have an idea of what huge sum is concentrated in a outsourced unit whose decisions are more or less a black and a green managing director. If the Advisory Board is concerned about a financial measure, it may, if there is at all a simple majority there, which will probably not be the case with three opposition parties in the Advisory Board, only impose a suspensive veto, and it may delay decisions by 48 hours. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Belakovich.]] So it doesn't make any sense at all, Klubobmann Wöginger, that we go to the advisory board. First of all, we never have the majority there anyway, and even if we get the majority together, we will be voted over by the Supervisory Board. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] That means: What's going to do if we go to the advisory board? [[We welcome FPÖ and SPÖ as well as Members of the European Parliament.]] That's why it needs real control. [[Abg. Eßl: Why are you going to plenary at all? You don't have a majority either!]] Therefore, with the other opposition parties, we also call for a corresponding parliamentary investigation -, Subcommittee on the Budget Committee, the Covid-19 Subcommittee, which is also equipped with appropriate control rights and in principle – Mr Krainer has already explained it – to be held in the media. [[Call the ÖVP: Now you know what's going on!]] I would also like to stress that through this Covid-19 subcommittee, all budgetary measures and not just the measures of the Cofag are subject to genuine parliamentary control. It is about the Austrian tax money, and there has never been transparency and control damaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e1462	Mrs Mag. Nina Tomaselli. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e1521	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Krainer, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and NEOS and FPÖ, you are perfectly right. I mean, if 38 billion euros of taxpayers' money and taxpayers' money are to be paid, then we need complete transparency, and we also need full control, that is out of question. This is only good and right, and it is for everyone who is representatives of taxpayers, and we are all here in this House. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Yes, if it goes after us, please get a committee, we would also very much like to get involved in such a committee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] The current Rules of Procedure also offer very, very many possibilities – it is not that a committee in the current form would not give up in the National Council –: The Committee may be public, there are Question Times, reports from the Government are possible, and these reports can also be requested as a minority group. It's all possible. I've been listening to you for a long time, and I understand all of this. But what I don't understand is that you don't send anyone to the Cofag Board. Yesterday was the constituent meeting of the Cofag Advisory Board, and unfortunately all representatives of NEOS, SPÖ and FPÖ missed. And in fact - no, the Cofag Advisory Council cannot replace parliamentary control – no one of us claims – at all, but it is an information offer for the parliamentary groups. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Matznetter and Mr Meinl-Reisinger.]] I do not understand why, on the one hand, you demand transparency and information, and on the other hand, you have the possibility to obtain comprehensive data – not anything, but comprehensive data – from the emergency fund – an information that can be very, very valuable, even for your work. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I would like to stress once again: The Cofag Advisory Council cannot replace parliamentary control, but it is an instrument to bring as fast a settlement as possible on the one hand and the broadest possible involvement of the political groups and the interest groups on the other. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] Again: I'm sorry you didn't take part. I hope you change your mind, because: What to get You as a member of the advisory board? – You get a complete list of all the grants paid each week – all promotions, except for the last cent! If you want, you can request the documentation – completely, you get everything: the application and the investments of the companies up to the tax documents. And no, it's not right, you don't get the documents from a sum of 25 million euros! You just have to make a request, then you will also get it for funding over 20 000 euros. And all of this works with simple digital handling. So you try to make it as easy as possible for the Cofag Advisory Board members. If you listen to all this – do you know what scares me? – I’m also in the Cofag Advisory Board and I’m more afraid of too much information than too little. [[Abg. Matznetter: Too much...!]] This can be solved especially with transparent publication, but not with the refusal to go to the Cofag Advisory Board. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] The Cofag Advisory Council, once again, cannot replace control by parliamentary groups, will not, should it not, and therefore a very, very large yes comes from us Greens to a parliamentary corona committee. But your desire for more information and cooperation could give you so much expression if you also participated in the Cofag Advisory Board. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e1622	Dipl.-Ing.in Karin Double farmer is now mentioned in word. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e1646	Mr President. I'm glad I still have the opportunity to make a few things clear. We NEOS already have the current hour quite consciously under the motto: If you don't know anything, you have to believe everything!, put it, and I think that's what this is all about today. It is about the distribution of almost EUR 40 billion in taxpayers' money, ladies and gentlemen, and as a responsible opposition party, we certainly do not want NEOS to depend on the need to believe, but we want to know what is going on. [[Call the ÖVP:Consult!]] In this case, however, this knowledge means very concrete transparency and perfect control, parliamentary control. This is knowledge, on the spot and on the note. [[Intervocations by the Deputies Himmelbauer and Pfurtscheller.]] It is about the money of the Austrian taxpayers, and there you cannot stand and say: You're going to the advisory board, because there you have an overview of exactly 15 billion euros of the entire budget, but not all 38 billion euros. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Don't vote!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] We have a right to that – we have a right to it! – to know exactly who gets when and with what reasons how many resources from the corona aid heads, not just us, but every taxpayer and every taxpayer in that country. We as Parliament have now given the Minister of Finance a really big pouvoir. We gave him a lot of confidence, and that was very important and right. We are a long way away from the ever-insured transparency in the area of money distribution. We have not seen much of that so far, and, of course, we are concerned as an opposition. We hear that there is a willingness to negotiate a subcommittee, but the only thing we have really heard so far was at the end of the day that there will be a separate section on the corona measures in the monthly budget report to Parliament. [[Abg. Maurer: No, wrong!]] – Of course, that’s great and that’s really great, but it’s very serious, ladies and gentlemen: [[New call for tender Maurer]] This is standard, and we don't want to discuss whether we get it. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: That's not true!]] This is not appropriate as a control for this large crisis pot of 38 billion euros. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that what you really need to define is what you need to know: Opposition parties have a special responsibility in the exercise of the government's parliamentary control. That is why we want this committee: because it really concerns us to create a structure in which clean, democratic control is possible, and that would be possible with this Covid-19 subcommittee of the Budget Committee. It is not enough, ladies and gentlemen, for us to be invited as representatives to this ominous advisory board, which is then about 15 billion euros being handled there and not the 38 billion euros. [[Call the ÖVP: It's not ominous!]] We as Parliament, of course, have to control, democratically control the entire budget. [[Abg. Ottenschlager: That's terrible!]] The Committee we are proposing would be the best basis for ongoing and comprehensive monitoring, because time will also come to Corona. And seriously: Then we will have to pay an invoice – and we will have to pay a huge bill! – and there can't be it, ladies and gentlemen, since there must not even be the suspicion that there is a muzzle here, there must be no suspicion that there has been any decision behind closed doors. That is why we demand perceptibility and openness from A to Z. That is why we want to make the negotiations available to the media. This is very important to us in this context so that we can really act transparently. And of course – we already said it –: Of course, there is a need to accept and comply with the legitimate interests of those concerned, which is quite clear. But finally let me say something from my point of view about this completely unnecessary construction of Cofag and its absolutely toothless advisory board. If you only have a little political experience, you can really see very, very easily what the Cofag is. The Cofag is nothing but a circumvention structure. It is a circumvention structure so that 15 billion euros are passed by parliamentary control. That's it. [[I would like to appeal to Mr Neos and Mr SPÖ, as well as to the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steinacker: Explain to the entrepreneurs...!]] In addition to the representatives of the five parliamentary parties, representatives of the social partners, IV, a professor and a judge also sit inside. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a democratically legitimate body, something like that looks different! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] Don't misunderstand me: The Minister of Finance can provide advisory advice all day long, if he likes it – that's all right! – but that has nothing to do with parliamentary control, and it cannot be thrown into the same pot. [[New call for tender Maurer]] Mrs Tomaselli has now worked it up a little bit, but in the past we haven't heard that. This is a farce, and that is especially dangerous for democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e1805	Finally, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e1820	Once again – the last sentence perhaps, because it is also important to understand that –: The Advisory Board members are obliged to remain silent. [[Abg. Steinacker: It's enough!]] That means they can't say anything here, and that's not what we understand by transparency. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] They can't go outside and report here, and that's exactly what we don't want, because it's about taxpayers who have to be given transparent money. There we are at that – let me close it – which is exactly the point: believe versus know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00025_d7e1879	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment 421/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The agenda is exhausted. [[21:41:20]] The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 21.42 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
