ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e586	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I'll open the 50. Meeting of the National Council. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Martin Engelberg, Franz Hörl, Mag. Dr. Maria Theresia Niss, MBA, Mag. Thomas Drozda, Cornelia Ecker, Alois Schroll, Dr. Ewa Ernst-Dziedzicund Fiona Vierde, Bed. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e638	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e925	I also agree with the motion for a resolution (831/A) to the Committee on Justice. I would also like to refer the motion for a resolution to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e959	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform the House that Members have requested Wöginger and Koza to report to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template 351 of the Supplements and on the Government template 352 of the Supplements to each of them a period of time up to 22. In September 2020, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the protection of their personal data. I would also like to say that the Members of Parliament have requested that the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth report on the Government template 353 of the Supplements be sent to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. ==References== I would also like to say that the Members of this House have requested that the Health Committee report to the Government template 354 of the Supplements be limited to 22. In September 2020, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the protection of their personal data. I would also like to say that Members Gabriela Schwarzund Schalmeiner requested that the Health Committee report to the Commission on the 826/A request a period of time until 22. September 2020 and Mr Leichfried asked the Foreign Policy Committee to report to the Commission on the application 811/A(E) for a period of time up to 21. ==References== Mr Steinacker and Mr Prammer have also requested that the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection report on the motion for a resolution (831/A) be sent to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. In September 2020, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the protection of their personal data. I would also like to say that the Members of Parliament have requested that the Committee on Economic, Industrial and Energy report on the motion for a resolution (832/A) be sent to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Affairs. In September 2020, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the protection of their personal data. Finally, I say that the honourable Member has requested that the Committee on Internal Affairs report to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on application 817/A(E) for a period of time up to 21. ==References== The motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations at this meeting, i.e. at the same time. [[18:12:48]] Vote on requests for time-limits
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00050_d7e1007	We come to the votes. We come to the vote on the request of Mr Wöginger, Mr Koza, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on the Government template 351 of the Supplements, a period of time of up to 22. ==References== Who is in favour of this deadline? – This is accepted by a majority. Vote on the request from Mr Wöginger, Mr Koza, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, to report on the Government template 352 of the Supplements, a period of time of up to 22. September to be added: Who's for it? - That's the majority. Vote on the request from Mr Sieber and Mr Neßler, the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth for reporting on the Government template 353 of the Supplements, to 22nd reading. September to be added: Who's for it? – This is also accepted by a majority. Vote on the request from Mr Großbauer and Mr Schalmeiner, the Health Committee, to report on the Government template 354 of the Supplements, a period of time of up to 22. September to be added: Who's for it? – This is accepted by a majority. Vote on the request from Mr Gabriela Schwarzund Schalmeiner, the Health Committee, to report to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the motion for a resolution 826/A September to be added: Who's for it? – This deadline is adopted by a majority. Vote on the request from Mr Leichtfried, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Public Health and Consumer Protection, to report to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. September to be added: Who is in favour of this deadline? – This is the minority, rejected. Vote on the request from Mr Steinacker and Mr Prammer, the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection, to report to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on the motion for a resolution 831/A September to be added: Who is for this deadline? – This is accepted by a majority. Vote on the request from Mr Haubner and Mr Götze, the Committee on Economic, Industrial and Energy, to report on the motion for a resolution (Doc. September to be added: Who is for this deadline? – It is adopted by a majority. Finally, we come to the vote on the request by Mr Krisper, the Committee on Internal Affairs for reporting on Amendment 817/A(E) to 21. ==References== Who is in favour of this deadline? – This is the minority, rejected. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 23. September, 9 a.m., will be convened in writing. This meeting is closed. - A nice evening!
