ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e8152	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. ==References== The meeting of the National Council is open. I welcome you very warmly, and I also welcome our spectators at home in front of the televisions. We return to parliamentary normality once and for all: Today there is another current hour and committee meetings are again taking place. I can explain to our television audiences and live streams that we have an increased session attendance and will also meet again next week, Tuesday, 28.4. In May we will devote ourselves to the budget in both the Committee's deliberations and the plenary deliberations. Today we meet with all the delegates, the gallery is being used again – therefore no visitors are present here – and there are also delegates in the roof foyer. We are oriented to the health authorities. I ask you to really keep the distance, and recommend that you continue to wear the masks, especially in contact situations. We disinfect, there are also the acrylic barriers, and we will vote at the end of the plenary session. – So much for information for our spectators. ==References====External links== Meeting of the 2nd meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and Industrial Policy. April 2020, the unreaded parts of the Official Protocol of 22 April 2020. The meeting and the official minutes of the 23rd meeting 3rd meeting of 3rd meeting April 2020 has been raised in the The MEPs Kira Grünberg, Nurten Yılmaz, Dr. Reinhard Eugen Bösch, are reported to be prevented today. Gerald Hauser, Mag. Philipp Schranglund Mag. Faika El-Nagashi. I may announce that the ORF will transfer the meeting in ORF 2 and until 7.15 in ORF III by 1 p.m. and then the meeting will be transmitted to the TV library. I welcome the Federal Chancellor and the members of the Federal Government. [[10:05:20]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e8221	We therefore reach the current Hour with the theme: “If you don’t know anything, you have to believe everything. Transparency and information now, Federal Chancellor!" Mrs Klubobfrau Meinl-Reisinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. – I should like to draw your attention to this: Your speaking time is 10 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e8250	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear viewers! It's an unusual wealth of people here in space for me. One realizes that the time of physical removal is kind of pastime, going that I really thought at the first moment: Hu, a lot of people in a room! But I am very happy to see you all again; I would like to say that. We are in week six, the people in Austria have adhered well to the rules or also instructions of the government regarding physical removal, and the figures are good. That is how it is now possible, and this must always be the goal that we gain more freedoms. It is clear to me that there is a permanent tension between freedom and security at this time, which is likely to last a few months, perhaps even years. There is always this tension relationship, I think you have to be very careful – and I would like to say this in advance, because I have already been very upset about what I heard in the “Morgenjournal” today; there a sociologist said in relation to Israel that freedom is the opposite of health – not to make it a contrast, always to pay attention to a discourse and a good balance, so that one does not get into the situation that such statements are made, freedom is the opposite of health. The reason I'm going to introduce it now is: It's not about looking back. I am now dealing with the next phase, the phase of the recovery of freedom. And no, I say that here too, our goal as NEOS is not a new normality, but a recovery of freedom, of open society, also of international networking; it may be a stage on the way there. I do not want to look back and evaluate; for this is now, I believe, also the wrong time. We need to look forward now. It has also been a lot of success and has already been said a lot. But what does it take to get out of this crisis? It is repeatedly warned of the danger of a second, a third wave, or perhaps other waves. So what does it take to prevent all of us from relinquishing freedom together? – From the very beginning, we have agreed, and this should also lead us now to the need for a balance: It is about health, not overburdening the health system and also about the view of the economy and society; neither can the economy tip, nor can – please! – chicken society. This balance has to be made; people are required a lot. Now is the time when we also ask the government to do something, that is to say, to have a great deal of transparency about all its decisions. We put a lot of power in the hands of the government weeks ago as the High House. There are very many ways to rule, so to speak, on the basis of these empowerment laws: by regulations, by decree. It all had to go very quickly. Now we are coming into a new phase in which this must be rigorous and transparent and rule of law. If that's what you want: The phase of speedsheets, which will then somehow be submitted, regulations, issued which may not always be quite accurate with the constitutional conformity, must now be over. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] As Parliament's representative, I also say to you that Parliament has to stand on its feet in this regard and to say: We must have control here as a People's Office and encourage transparency! I would remind you that at the very beginning we also made the proposal that these restrictions on personal freedom should not be imposed by regulation or decree, but must also be discussed here in the main committee. Why? – Because it is Parliament’s right, the elected People’s Office, to discuss with such drastic measures, to get all the information, all the facts on the table and to demand it permanently. I think that would have been the better way. Now, for this second phase it is quite, very essential, because: “If you don’t know anything, you have to believe everything.” – This is a policy of fear that can be permanently prolonged. I say: “If you don’t know anything, you have to believe everything.” What do I mean by that? – On the one hand, there is the situation that we do not collect data in Austria. I was amazed to note that there is no statistical coverage of pre-diseases in covid patients, so we do not get a list of pre-diseases at the push of a button, which have led to more serious events. This may be accompanied by studies, but the scientists say: We have too few data available! – I think in such a phase, every patient will say, when this is anonymized: Of course I make this available! Austria does not participate in international scientific discussions either. - That's too little! “If you don’t know anything, you have to believe everything.” – This also applies to the figures and facts that are likely to be available. We have repeatedly asked for answers to the following questions: What are your decision-making bases, the government's decision-making basis? Who are the experts who advise you? Which models are there? What calculations are there? What's the strategy? Let me say something about this, including the role of Parliament's House: For weeks, we've been reminding you, too, in the conversations – you know that! – the head of the party with you, Mr. Federal Chancellor, and with Mr. Vice-Chancellor. What is the strategy? Which models? What calculations? I know in the end, it's always a political decision, and that's good. It may also be time to explain once again that political decisions always mean a balance of interests and not just follow epidemiologists or singular economists. It's a political decision, but: What is the basis? What is the strategy? - We've never experienced this. Yesterday evening we got an email from the ÖVP club that informs us that we will get the Containment 2.0 strategy sometime today. Do you consider this to be the transparent and fair and sincere way of dealing with the House at this stage? – Not me, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and Greens! [[I would like to appeal to Mr Neos and Mr FPÖ, as well as to the members of the SPÖ.]] I could now also mention the hint – could almost be said – of risk groups: For four weeks now, we have been discussing who belongs to the risk groups. Where are the test results stored? What about the other areas of the health system? I spoke to colleagues from Denmark, and they can say: The rates of chemotherapy have decreased by so much and so much in recent weeks, and the number of medical visits has fallen by so much and so much percent over the last few weeks! - Why can't we say that in Austria? Or is there this data? Can you put her on the table? But I also come to other areas: The labour market is a very important area. It is not until this week that we have learned that the number of people in short-time work in this country has accelerated from 600 000 to 900 000. At the beginning of April, over 600,000 people were unemployed. We need these numbers weekly! ==References====External links== May be much higher. We can assume that more than one third of all self-employed workers will either be unemployed or have no employment due to short-term work. I expect to be in such a phase in which we are going to look at it and make these decisions step by step – as you always say – that this is put on the table on a transparent weekly basis. I want to be put on the table just as it looks like insolvency. Every business, every business that has to lock up now, because the business has been forbidden to him and the help has not arrived, does not lock up; these jobs are lost, this prosperity is lost. That must be perfectly clear to us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I come to the economic aid that is supposed to arrive: Officecratism and promotion jungles! . We know this, and there is no transparency either, nor with regard to the detachment of the Chamber of Commerce as regards the hardening fund and the Cofag. We will still be discussing this today, because we regard it as a Parliament that has budgetary law in the country, as a matter of course, that we also control how 38 billion euros are used in this crisis. [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] “If you don’t know anything, you have to believe everything.” – That’s what education is all about. How many children do we not reach at this stage? Mr Bundeskanzler, you said yesterday – and this is completely de facto free and far from reality – that there is no need for any change regarding kindergartens, which are open. Do you know what reality is? – Parents must prove to kindergartens that they have an urgent need, otherwise they will not be allowed to provide care for their child! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Yes, in which world do we actually live, ladies and gentlemen, that we as parents have to act as a bitter and prove it?- Oh, my God! [[I would like to appeal to Mr Neos and Mr FPÖ, as well as to the members of the SPÖ.]] I'm waiting for the parents to put down the work for a day so that you can see what you're doing with a policy that says that this is all compatible! But it may also be the ideology that the woman is home anyway and can take great care of the children. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Unbelievable!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] “If you don’t know anything, you have to believe everything.” – Dear Ladies and gentlemen, at such a time this is really dangerous, because trust, reliability, planning and predictability are just the next steps, very important for the population and, of course, for the elected representatives of the people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] It would be different if we in Austria, like many developed democracies, already had an information freedom law, i.e. a law that guarantees people a right to information and transparency, instead of a bitterness that we need to ask to get figures and facts. Our request to do so - -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e8355	I can ask you to come to a close!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e8370	I'm coming to the end, don't worry. Our proposal has been in the Committee for a long time. Now would be the time to get closer to it and finally ensure extensive information and transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e8401	Federal Chancellor Kurz is reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e8422	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is not an unusual sight that the High House is again as occupied as it should be. It is still not a normal state when every second chair is free and many of the delegates have to comply with their activity from the gallery, but it shows what is happening in Austria: the attempt to restore a bit more normality, despite the certainty that we are still not over the mountain, despite the certainty that the virus will not have disappeared from today to tomorrow. Nevertheless, the attempt to live with it is being made. I fully understand that we are living in a phase in which many people are afraid, in which there is a lot of uncertainty in which there is much uncertainty. This, of course, also leads to many questions, there and there to tension and some also to uncertainty as to how to deal with them. It's not helpful for us to know that, but it's still a fact: It is a global crisis, a virus that means disease, suffering and death to many people worldwide, a virus that has triggered a world economic crisis, as we have long not experienced. The most important and good is the same: We as Austria have come through this crisis better than other countries. We have managed to prevent the collapse of our health systems. We did not have such a situation as in one of our neighbouring countries that doctors have to decide who is allowed to live and who has to die. We have saved many lives, and the reason for this is you are all, dear Austrians. Therefore, I would like to start by thanking again for the fact that all in recent weeks have responded so disciplinedly and have been saved in Austria. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We've arrived in phase two now. Phase two is the resurgence of our economy, the resurgence of our society, the resurgence of our Republic. I would like to tell you that today everything is the same as it once was, and that there is no longer the virus in a few weeks, only unlock that is not the reality, it would be lying. Although some do not like the situation that we will have to move in the next few months in a phase of new normality, that is true. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The real breakthrough will only succeed if there is a vaccine or if a drug is invented. From this point on, the world will be in order again and we can return to all that we love and appreciate and what was always self-evident for us. Until then – and so honestly we have to be – we have to try together to live with this and in the best possible way despite the virus. Other countries are accustomed to similar situations. I have experienced this as a foreign minister in different parts of the world: What is natural for us, that is not a matter of course elsewhere. Whoever goes out of our house feels safe. Whether man or woman, no matter at any time – you can leave the house and walk on the street. In many other countries of the world, people think very carefully: Should I go out, I can go out, is it safe outside? Is this happening at this time? In many other countries of the world, you wonder if you are stung by a gel: Can this be the beginning of a deadly disease, or is it just a harmless gelstick anyway? In other countries, you turn up the water, drink out of the pipe – and you can never be sure whether it is not a disease. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] We are in Austria Thank God in the situation that we have with all this little experience. We are used to the fact that there is security that we can move freely, that many things are very easy and easy and of course. What we need to learn together in the next few months is to live with the virus and keep us away from measures such as distance, social distance, wearing masks, special hygiene rules, avoiding social contacts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] The motto is clear: As much freedom as possible, as much restriction as necessary. The challenge in this phase is the same as the challenge in the first phase in which we have already responded well as Austria: There are few experiences, the virus is new, it is not yet scientifically researched to 100 percent, and for us in Austria it is a change anyway. So what are we trying to do? – On the one hand, we are trying to rely on the experience of other countries that had to experience this situation earlier than we did. I am very grateful for the international exchange with countries like South Korea, Japan, China, Israel and others that were very helpful in the first phase. We exchange with experts in Austria, with virologists, mathematicians and simulation researchers, who advise us as the Federal Government on what action is possible and what action might have what effects. Thirdly, of course, the experts in the federal states, in the authorities, are important to us because they have their own experience for Austria. We are often asked – Beate Meinl-Reisinger has also mentioned this – according to which criteria decisions are made. – It would be nice if there were a single number, it would be nice if there were a single truth, but it’s always a mix of numbers and developments to look at: the absolute number of newly infected people, the question whether the arrow is pointing up or down, the question of who is infecting and whether these people need to go to the hospital and perhaps even to the intensification station or not, and constantly the question of the capacities in the health system. As far as the economy is concerned, I am just as transparent as I am in the health field. Of course, it is true that the data on the labour market and how many people are in short work are being published on a regular basis, but our common objective must be that these figures fall again and that the recovery of our economy also leads to us coming through the crisis economically better than other countries. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] That's our goal. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] On health issues: The Minister of Health will certainly still comment on this, but I guarantee you, ladies and gentlemen, that, as I know him, he will, of course, make scientific findings, expert papers, as well as all the figures, data and facts transparent and share them with you. [[Abg. Loacker: On what basis?]] [[Further calls to the NEOS.]] Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, because you mentioned the issue of education: They are perfectly right, this has been handled more strictly in Vienna than in other federal states. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: Hard even in Salzburg! Even in Lower Austria difficult!]] At the time of the crisis, the decision was taken to discuss with the parents whether there is a need for care or not. Of course, I have already asked the Minister for Education to speak with the representatives of the federal states in which this is the case and to influence the fact that there is a change there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] It is clear – what I said – that: The educational institutions are open to anyone who needs or wants to provide care, and I stay with them: It is not a shame to use that too! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Loacker:... the word “sin” says!]] The fact that schools are not opened from today to tomorrow is in the interest of children, in the interest of parents and grandparents, and I think it would be negligent to do otherwise. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Do you know what you're saying?]] Finally, I would like to thank you for this – even if the tension is increasing now, and I also fully understand – that we have managed in recent weeks – no matter what party, whether opposition or government, to make decisions together with a cool mind, to make hard decisions, to make quick decisions, and thus not only Life has been saved, but we now also have the opportunity to get out of this crisis more economically than other countries. Acting properly is not only the best for health, but also the opportunity to re-establish economically faster, and is therefore the right way not only for health, but also for the economy, the labour market and society, and we are trying to go along with you as a government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e8564	Klubobmann Wöginger is reported to speak. From now on, the speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e8586	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Meinl-Reisinger, you said you got a little mad early this morning. – I was so upset by this title: “If you don’t know anything, you have to believe everything. Transparency and information now, Federal Chancellor!" I say one to you, Mrs Colleague: This title is completely inappropriate and also completely wrong. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] What do you mean? – Do you mean the constant information of the population from the entire federal government, the actual daily information? [[Abg. Meel-Reisinger: Do you mean this staging?]] Do you think the weekly video conferences of German Chancellors and Vice-Chancellors with the opposition party members? Do you think of the countless presidential conferences that we are holding here in the House? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] What do you mean by this title? - I'll tell you one thing: The situation is too serious to choose such a title. That's what I'm telling you. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: So it's enough now!]] [[Further calls to the NEOS.]] That's it. It could also have come to you a sentence going over the lips that we in Austria are internationally speaking in this matter thank God for the best development we can have. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger:... Right to information!]] Unfortunately we have 491 dead due to this corona situation, but the numbers are clear and speak a very clear language. I distance myself from drawing any comparisons with Italy, with Great Britain or with the much praised France you have – I distance myself from it; Mr Macron left elections in mid-March – I only take Belgium, a country slightly larger than Austria, for comparison: There are 6 000 dead there due to the Corona crisis – thanks to God, we do not even have 500 dead. – You could have mentioned these figures, Mrs Meinl-Reisinger! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Thanks primarily to the Austrian population, which is quite clear, but also to the Federal Government, also for the rapid implementation of these measures and that they have been applied at the end of the day. The Austrians, by their exemplary effect – I really want to stress this – have made sure that thanks to God, fewer people had to die than in other countries. That's the reality. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Now, because we have a few dead people, it is discussed why everything is not locked up again. – What logic, ladies and gentlemen, do you live by? [[Abg. Loacker: Everyone will...!]] We have made these measures aware, and I say it again: The population has been grateful for this, and it was only by this that it was possible to achieve that the numbers speak this language. Now we are talking about the gradual opening. I also hear this in certain rural areas, in the social media sector: Oh, my God, what are 500 dead?- Oh, my God! Why is everything not open again – from the school to the innhouses to the churches? – We can only gradually open up, ladies and gentlemen, because we have to observe the figures closely, and this also shows the experience of those countries that have already come into this crisis situation before us. [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] This is done with care and consideration, because we do not want to get into the situation, ladies and gentlemen, that the death toll is rising, that we get to the capacity limits of our hospitals. We do not want this situation, so it is gradually being opened up in 14-day steps. The roadmap has been officially announced yesterday, again in the context of a press conference of the Federal Government, in which it has been clearly held, how this is going to take place at the beginning of May, the shops, also the service companies, the tourism companies in mid-May, the gastronomy, also the houses of God, are opening up many requests. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] This has been clearly regulated and also communicated to the public. I do not understand, ladies and gentlemen, why we cannot agree on these steps together. This is the path that has been taken, of course, with the experience of those countries that already have it, including the experts and that will ensure that we can keep this so-called second wave as low as possible, so that we can return to a certain normality very slowly. [[Abg. Loacker: Which one?]] [[==References====External links== Belakovich]] It will be a different normality, but of course we want to reopen what we can open up and where we can be quite sure that we can achieve our goals at the end of the day. [[Abg. Belakovich: What other normality?]] That is why we, ladies and gentlemen, and nothing else.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e8749	Please come to a close!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e8764	Finally, a great thank you to the Austrian population: Compliance with the hygiene rules, the minimum distance that works, and we will continue to need it because we do not yet have any medicines and no vaccine. I would like to conclude with the following sentence: We are responsible for giving as much freedom as possible – of course! – but also as much restriction as it is necessary to maintain. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e8794	Mr Klubobmann is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e8816	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I would like to start at the beginning – I didn't actually do that – with something Klubobmann Wöginger said: Every group in this House has the right to name a current hour as it considers it right, since there is no need for censorship in this Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP, Greens and NEOS.]] If we are now aware of the situation, we must note that there are three great fears in this country, in Austria: the fear of people for their health, the fear of people for their existence, the fear of poverty and the fear of personal freedom, democracy and the rule of law. We are in a situation such as it has been in this country for decades, probably since 1945. There is so much talk about heroes at this time. – I tell you who the heroes are: The heroes are the people in Austria who have given up their freedom to give up their lifestyle, who have endured loneliness in order to be able to control this situation. – A warm thanks to all of you that you have managed this crisis so well so far, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The basis for this exemplary human behavior is the confidence that what happens is evidence-based, scientifically clarified and deeply concerned that people should be better. That was also the reason for us as social democrats to help here until now, because we have actually had this impression that this is about it. However, I say quite frankly to you, Federal Chancellor, quite slowly the people doubt it, and not only the people outside doubt it, but also those who have politically accompanied you so far in this phase doubt whether everything really is evidence-based, scientifically clarified. [[Call the ÖVP to you!]] [[Mr Pfurtscheller and Mr Steinacker.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! How can it be understood that the Federal Chancellor said on 30.3.: “Bald will know each of us someone who died of Corona”, and not even three weeks later, on 20 May. April, one reads in the “farmer’s newspaper”, that Mrs. Köstinger has said: Now it's time we open our borders to 80 million of our neighbors!Unknown term type: "%s".? – What has led to this change of mind, ladies and gentlemen? I have the feeling that this is no longer evidence-based, no longer scientifically accompanied, I have the impression that those who are good at putting away mountain peaks so that the cable cars can drive, now slowly re-establish the course of the government – and that is not our course, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] People are afraid to impoverish: 600,000 people are unemployed, 900,000 people are in short-term employment, 1.5 million people have fewer incomes at their disposal but make the same payments. I'll tell you one thing: They hesitate and shudder on this question, but we will not rest until there is compensation for these people, financial compensation, and until finally unemployment benefit for these people is increased, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: Where?- Oh, my God!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And when it comes to who will pay for the consequences of this crisis in the future, we will fight for it not to be these heroes in our country, but that they are those who are still dividends, bonuses, and are not willing to pay their taxes in this country, ladies and gentlemen! That is also what is to be done for the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Yes, and there is the fear of democracy, freedom, the rule of law. We are living at a time when the government has been given a lot of responsibility – 38 billion euros can be de facto almost freely granted! – and at such a time, a self-confident, strong parliament needs to look at the hands of this government – and we will do so! You will be working hard for a while to set up a committee that will do so, but at the end of the day, this committee for Austria, for the people in Austria, will be valued by ladies and gentlemen! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e8905	Mrs Belakovich has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e8926	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Very briefly to my colleague, Mr Wöginger, who made himself here and said: “This title is complete” – how did he say literally? – ‘unapproached’. – So criticism is inappropriate; Criticism of the ÖVP is anyway inappropriate, we know! [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of SPÖ and NEOS.]] The title is so important, because as little transparency as you have lived here, that is hardly yet to be surpassed! They put themselves here and say: I do not like to compare Austria with other countries, but I have to make a comparison, namely Belgium, because Belgium has so many deaths! – Everyone who deals with it a little bit is quite sure why Belgium has so many deaths: not because all of them are coronatotes, but because all people who die in old homes are counted there – this is a very unique method of counting in Belgium – even though it has not even been shown that they had Covid-19 or were infected with the virus. That is a number which is not comparable to those in Austria and not with those of other European countries. [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and the representatives of the NEOS.]] And that's not what I'm saying, but that's what Belgian Minister of Health Maggie De Block says, by the way, is a doctor. She knows what she's saying – probably more than you do! But now to you, Federal Chancellor: Mr Bundeskanzler, you are here and give an answer without content. - Well, that's what we're used to from you and for yourself. – Today, you have also failed to tell anything about your experts here: Who are these experts? Where are the calculations or on what basis have any calculations been made? They say people are scared. – Yes, of course, people are afraid, that’s quite clear, because you’ve made sure people are scared. You've been telling me in recent weeks: Hundreds of thousands will die! Everyone will know anyone who died of Corona! We'll have corrugated mountains, we'll need mass graves! – These are all expressions from your press conferences, Federal Chancellor! And then you disagree that people are afraid, because that is the basic requirement for you to be able to cut people's fundamental rights; that's why you want people in this country to be afraid. That's exactly what you're living, that's your policy, Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Since yesterday, then suddenly everything is different, and yesterday you suddenly announced: Now we can slowly start to lift; we even open the gastronomy, but only until 23:00! – Perhaps your experts have found that the virus is night active: It is then active again from 24 o'clock, and therefore you have to lock at 23 o'clock. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, there's no plan behind what you're doing. You try a little bit, but at the same time tell the Austrians permanently: That's all quite, very important; that's all very, very dangerous, and that's why you have to wear all the masks! – The entire ÖVP range sits here with masks. Only one detail at the edge: In the presidential sessions no one has a mask with, let alone on – neither Klubobmann Wöginger nor President Sobotka. In addition today, for example, colleague Großbauer or colleague Singer sits in here with a mask, and I ask you: What are you doing, please? They don't need a mask, they're healed, they're immune, these people can't infect anyone, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] What you're doing here is a masking game, which is a masking ball to the population, ladies and gentlemen. Take yourself a little more seriously! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – What rain Is that how you're getting up? It is. At the same time, you usually still have the Minister of the Interior at your hand, who in his army also instructs the police to stifle the citizens, punish the citizens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] As a mother is punished with a fine of 500 euros because her children happen to play with other children in the park, another woman is punished because she drank a coffee at the park bankerl and kept a distance of no more than a meter – so it is obvious that it is now the most important task to punish innocent citizens. That's exactly what you're doing. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That is, in this country, the blockkeeper thinking has celebrated a resurgence. It's a cocktail republic that you want to bring with it. – We don’t want them anyway, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At the same time, however, the great silence is recognized in relation to Ischgl. It is interesting that Mr. Vice-Chancellor said in his press conference yesterday that he did not want many small Ischgls in Austria. – So there is something about it, Mr. Bundeskanzler. Perhaps you'll explain on this. I'm telling you quite honestly: Head of State Platter should have resigned a long time ago. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That would have been the only correct answer to the chaos you caused in Tyrol. They are responsible for many hundred coroners throughout Europe, especially in Northern Europe, through this non-negotiation in Tyrol. There's going to be a lot more on you. There are already mass complaints relating to Tyrol. – That is why Platter should withdraw, and you too, Federal Chancellor, would be required to draw the right conclusions! [[Abg. Zarits:...not even the FPÖ...!]] Thanks to the Austrians, the Austrians have done a lot in recent weeks. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Steinacker and Mr Zarits.]] In contrast to this federal government, the Austrian discipline has lived; unlike this federal government, the Austrians have made sacrifices. The Federal Chancellor said yes: No one's supposed to get upset. – He is also quite relaxed, writing by the way, I don’t know, letters, no idea. [[In the direction of the somewhat on a sheet of paper writing Federal Chancellor Kurz:]] – In the face of more than one and a half million unemployed people in this country, the Austrian Chancellor continues to sit on his bank in a relaxed manner and explains to the Austrians that they must continue to be afraid to continue monitoring so that they can continue to be restricted in their fundamental and freedom rights. [[Objection to the ÖVP]] By the way, one forms the Cofag, which is this formation, into which then the billions come in. These 25 billion euros have been withdrawn from any parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e9055	May I ask you to come to a close?
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e9070	That is why I say, ladies and gentlemen, dear Austrians, thank you for this discipline. You deserven't deserve this federal government.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e9105	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e9126	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Minister and Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear spectators at home in front of the screens! I'm trying to make it a little quieter than my predecessor and bring in a little more peace. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens and the ÖVP.]] Let's see if I can do it. It is in itself an exciting debate that we are having here today and which is to be held. I do not see this as so critical now; we must hold this debate, yes. We were sitting here in the House a few weeks ago, and at that time the government was given a large backpack full of orders, which it would not have to put everything in order to communicate what it would have to say. There was the talk of a campaign in radio and television, poster actions, ads, active communication, more direct information and, and, and. Yes, even a corona app was stimulated. [[Abg. Kickl:... for surveillance!]] All of this has been implemented in recent weeks. There have been regular updates to the situation since then, every day. All information available is evidence-based, based on statistics, of internationally comparable statistics. The relevant facts and facts are thus all evidenced. That's the thing, that's the current state of affairs. From the example of the Ministry of Health, which I always find quite passive, we can also see how such a communication can take place: quiet, transparent, clean, but also so that the whole thing is also tangible for the people outside. The Minister makes his own speech every day via Facebook, in which all interested people can report, type in their questions and receive a direct answer from the Minister. So it is obviously not so difficult to get information in this country. You just have to ask the right question in the right place. We also have a video conference with the Minister once a week on health speakers from the individual political groups. By the way, this is the video conference, in which the Minister has already discussed the test strategy for the coming weeks with us health speakers twice. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] – That’s it, Mr Loacker. This is also the video conference in which we have already discussed all the other measures, including the question of risk patients. The fact that this has, of course, lasted longer is also due to the complexity of this venture. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is almost all relevant data about this history to be downloaded also on the website of the Ministry of Health – everything in the sense of Open Data, everything updated every day. Of course, it is not only Austrian data, but also international data. We are now also experiencing – and I would like to stress this – a new approach to errors in this discussion. The Minister turns himself and says: Okay, we've been wrong, we're going to analyze and eliminate these mistakes accordingly! – That too is something that has not yet been done in this country. By the way, I expect that this will not only do a minister in the future, but I expect the entire government to deal with this crisis in the future. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Cuckoo.]] But let's come back to the beginning for a second: It is alleged that there is too little communication and that there is a wrong communication. It is also called for that there is a separate statistics for everything and each one. – Small note: Those who want to know how many insolvencys there are only need to look by on the websites of the 1870 credit protection association or the Alpine creditor association. But you could also look by on the website of the much flattered Chamber of Commerce, there you can find this data and information. [[Abg. Loacker:... insolvency!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] If you want to know what it looks like with unemployment, this data will be processed perfectly on the AMS website on a monthly basis. One could now discuss what sense it would have if you did it weekly, but it happens monthly. April is not yet inside, of course, because it is not yet over. Because it always comes: Who's in this ominous crisis staff? [[Abg. Maurer: Advisory staff!]] - Advisor staff, excuse me. If anyone wants to know who's in there: That's on the Ministry's website. By the way, this was already reported in the “Kurier” on March 15. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Ladies and gentlemen, to talk about the fact that we do not know anything that we do not have information is, in my view, completely wrong and is not true. From time to time you also have to goog to get the relevant information. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e9227	Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e9248	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Estimated audiences, do you know the difference between the current government and the expert government of Bierlein? – With the Bierlein government, the experts were known. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the NEOS as well as cheerfulness with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Don't vote!]] Today: “Whoever knows nothing has to believe everything.” – This applies to you, ladies and gentlemen, this applies to the citizens, and this unfortunately also applies to the Federal Government. The fact that we all knew equally little about the Sars virus at the beginning is out of dispute, only the time should have been used from the beginning of March at the latest to gain new knowledge and to create the data base for the work that is now under way. Sebastian Kurz and Health Minister Anschober have failed to use five weeks since the lockdown to gain data that we can work on. We don't know who these are hospitalized for Covid-19. We don't know how old they are, whether they had prediseases or what prediseases they had. We don't know about the intensive patients either. We know about the dead, how old they were. - Great! Now the minister has come to see how many of the hospitalized were in a nursing home or in an old age home. – Oh, in the ministry, the flash thinkers are at work! The data will then be researched. – No, you can do research if you have the data; you should have collected it from the beginning. If you haven't done this – you haven't done it yet – you should start looking at all PCR tests immediately: How old is the test? What is his postal code? What weight and size does he have? Does he have prediseases? Maybe also: What medication does he have? Then you can read out what develops from who has harder procedures, who has milder processes. – All of this doesn't matter. Beautiful press conferences are important, beautiful performances are important – including two, three a day – so that you, valued audiences, are impressed and awe-inspiringly listen to the high words. You now think you have data. If you look at the tables, you can see that 30 000 PCR tests have been added in one day at a time. It is no wonder that the citizens no longer believe what you publish. After Easter, 55 coronatotes have risen from the dead, as in the statistics of deaths the number has suddenly fallen. There will be counted and pushed at any time until the biting of data we have is the way the government would like it to look. Now we open up many areas of life again. It's good that we do. We know that there is a danger of a re-ignition of the infections, which could be met with a systematic test strategy. Systematically, there would be structured, representative testing in different regions to identify new flocks immediately and thus to be able to intervene regionally. The data would have to be recorded in real time and in the background would have to run algorithms that recognize where patterns arise. This must be created by experts; no question, that is not a simple thing, but you should do it – T, U, N – then you could intervene immediately. But they do the opposite: What you're selling us as a test strategy is literally inside: ‘The testing of asymptomatic persons has no priority.’ All who have been dealing with Corona know that asymptomatic events are common and that people are contagious even if they have an asymptomatic or presymptomatic course – so they are sick, are infected, but the disease has not yet broken out, the symptoms are not yet shown. You don't want to test them at all. - That's not how it works! If you had asked professionals, you would have done it differently; but important is to impress, important is the show, important, I would almost say, is the entertainment of the audience. It is done at random: Why have the federal gardens been closed for so long? Why is the limit for shops that are allowed to open again at a size of 400 square meters? Why are the schools closed? – There is no evidence for this, it is all made according to feeling and free after snout. The less knowledge we have, the more you can rule with the fear and with the insecurity of people. More for procurement: You have problems with buying masks and you have problems with buying testkits. – There are companies that do not even get an answer from the Ministry and the Red Cross. The biochemical company, which equips the Lask and Red Bull Salzburg with PCR tests and carries out regular tests there, has received no answer from you and from the Red Cross, and then you say: We don't have enough testing capacities because the reagents are missing! This company now sells its capacity to Germany. – That’s what this government has done! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] You don't have a plan, you don't want a plan, you want the citizens in fear.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e9310	Mrs Schwarz has been spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e9332	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Federal Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Dear Austrians! Mr Schalmeiner has already said everything on the subject of experts and video conferences with the Minister of Health. I don't know, Gerald, what video conference you're in on Friday, obviously not in where I've always noticed you. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Loacker:... Numbers from Spain!]] “Lessons from Europe” was in the insert of the CNN interview given by Federal Chancellor Kurz on Sunday. You know, CNN is not one of the most renowned news stations in the world. We know that in international comparison many people look at Austria. So I was astounded the next day when I opened the “Kurier” and read there that the Federal Chancellor should have “Dollfoot-like changes”, attested by FPÖ-Klubobmann Kickl. [[Abg. Kickl:... perfectly right...!]] Because of my good education and political correctness and because I don't want to risk a call for order, I just tell you: It's a terrible thing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Is it not...!]] Similar to this statement is also the discussion that SPÖ-Federal Managing Director Christian Deutsch broke off the fence by comparing sports facilities such as golf courses and tennis courts with schools. Everyone who once was on a golf course in his life knows how far people are from each other; and everyone who once was in a school class knows how close the children sit there. This is really not to be surpassed by absurdity. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Members Amesbauer and Belakovich.]] Meanwhile, even in the SPÖ, how this is handled would have to have arrived. On Friday, there will be a press conference of the Minister, who will announce the roadmap on the successive opening of schools. What does that have to do with? I do not understand the meaning of the debate at all, if even young children like my father's have understood how important it is to stay away and how important it is to be able to wait and have patience. You all know that there is a period of two weeks after which we can read out what measures are taking. Why is this so hard to understand? That is the way the Federal Government is doing, with a real focus on consideration. It is always about one thing, ladies and gentlemen: to save life. We must not forget this in all measures. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The international comparison proves that the Austrian Federal Government acted quickly and consistently. For example, Sweden, which is always mentioned: May I remind you that there are three times as many deaths in Sweden per capita as in Austria to name just one number? This should give us some thought, and this should really underline the procedure chosen by the Federal Government. [[Abg. Belakovich: Per Head...!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] One of Austria's most recognized infectious scientists, Christoph Wenisch, has put it to the point: We have achieved much in international comparison, “we must not maim. ” [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: That's what I'm saying...!]] And this means that we are all here in this hall and all Austrians, whom I really thank very much, because without their consequence it would not have been possible to take the necessary measures to open up. Thank you so much! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Deputies Ernst-Dziedzic and Jakob Schwarz.]] Again and again, it is asked why there is no precise timetable or whether there is already a date from which you can do this and that. – Again: We know it takes time. We need care, we need necessary steps, and we must always have in mind that we must do so. You, Mrs Belakovich, said we are afraid. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] I'll tell you something. My mom's gonna be 80, and yes, I'm afraid she's infecting herself somewhere. This fear is not unfounded. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Deimek.]] This virus is ten times as deadly as the pig flu – you should also consider this when you're talking about fear-making here. To prevent this, there are further steps. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl:... study that proves that?]] – Just because you shout out loud, the arguments will not be better either, Mr FPÖ-Klubobmann Kickl! – I already have arguments, the arguments are health and business: [[Abg. Kickl:... Arguments!]] Health does not go without economy, economics does not go without health. [[Interlocutory calls from Members Amesbauer and Belakovich.]] I trust this federal government, I trust the Chancellor, and I trust the Austrians who know that the steps we take are the right ones. Stay with it, stay upright, keep up, stay at home and stay healthy!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e9522	Mrs Kuntzl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e9543	Ladies and gentlemen! After a few weeks of the crisis, we now know a lot more about their course. The doctors know a lot more about dealing with the disease, and we know a lot more about the effects, the economic and social effects of this crisis. We have all decided here in this House very quickly to provide economic aid in order to reduce the greatest impact on the economic situation in our country as quickly and as efficiently as possible. But now we see the impact on the social situation in our country. It has already been mentioned: There are 600,000 unemployed, 900,000 people in short-term work and hundreds of thousands of self-employed people who do not have revenue and who also tremble about their existence. That means: We now have to see, in open discussion, how we can take the next steps to mitigate the foreseeable social crisis in our country and, as well, prevent it from happening. The social crisis could consist of many, many individual dramas and tragedies which we can prevent; therefore, a joint effort should be undertaken by all of us, ladies and gentlemen. It is important that we take care of those who have now become unemployed and have to live very little. We should increase unemployment benefit so that we can live on it. We should increase it to 70 percent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We should stretch shields. We've been straining protective shields for the economy now, and that's good. Now we should use protective shields for those individuals and families who are in distress; we must not leave them alone either. We must not leave anyone alone in this situation, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Those who have maintained life in our land in recent weeks have truly earned the Corona Thousands. We should also stand behind that and help it break through! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have taken a lot of money into our hands. That's right. We have taken a lot of money in our hands to help, and we need to take even more into our hands. Today, however, we must also ask ourselves the relevant questions about justice: Is the money on the one hand where it is urgently needed? On the other hand, how will we spend the resources needed and which we have already made available or which we will need in order to continue to help? We can't stop! We know: We can't stop what we've done so far. It is not possible that those who have maintained life in the last few weeks will only be lamented and thanked. That is good – I would also like to thank you, and I am with all those who clap – but that is not enough! Above all, we cannot allow the costs of the crisis to be borne by those we complain. I can't do that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There must be solidarity of those who benefit from this crisis, of the crisis beneficiaries, for example of the online companies. There must be solidarity of those who have a lot, there must be a solidarity of millionaires. It must not be distributed bonuses and dividends from companies that receive state aid from us. That wouldn't be fair! I think that's what you see. There must be no state aid for those who are passing the Austrian tax and park the money in tax havens. That can't be! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have decided together here in Parliament, which is good and right, and it follows from this: We should also jointly control the allocation of these funds here in Parliament, namely the allocation of all resources, not only those from a certain level. The control is not only to be dared by those who choose the government, but the control is to take place where it belongs, namely here in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to remind you that control is a very essential task of Parliament, a very essential element of parliamentarianism, through all of us here and not only through opposition. This is a task of Parliament itself and not a scepticism.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e9611	Mr Schnedlitz is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e9632	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Dear Austrians! ==References== We have made a request here on February by the liberals, or we have tabled a request here, calling for everything to be finally disclosed and for you to provide clear information; and today, however, a current hour is necessary, because, to date, there is no clarity as to why you are doing what you are doing, ladies and gentlemen! We are not talking about any measures, we are talking about measures that have a massive impact on more than one million workers, on entrepreneurs. There is no basis for any of your measures and for the victims you produce in this context. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, there is a word for this, and that is arbitrary. In the run-up to today's session, I have thought about how to compare your actions and your arbitrariness – we have already mentioned this as salami tactics. I don't know who you know “Peer Gynt” from classical literature or classical music. There is the so-called onion equation. For those who do not know: This onion parable says that the hero of history, or – more precisely – the sad hero of history speaks life beautifully by speaking lies to himself. Before you give a call for order: I do not claim that you are working with lies, but with your placebos, your press conferences it is as similar as in this onion equation. You can compare your press conferences and everything else with the onion scale, because the population has long understood that no core of your information policy remains in this whole cloud of the press conferences and placebos. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Many have not yet said this because you have created a climate in which the people are afraid to go to the streets because you have created a climate in which the population is afraid to say something about your actions. Don't misunderstand me: Measures are definitely important and correct if they are to protect the population or help. However, you have left two other components: firstly, the component of the economic and social victims you have produced – more than a million Austrians who are unemployed or in short-time jobs, companies that have driven you into ruin. They have put in place measures without introducing orderly countermeasures and aid measures. You are responsible for over one million victims of your actions, and to this day you have not put on the table why and on what basis They have adopted these measures. – That’s just inconceivable! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second component, which remains – and this component concerns every Austrian and every Austrian in this country – is how you deal with your own population, and many speak out behind it: sometimes worse than with serious criminals. The rest of the penalty remains excessive, mothers who are being forced to buy school notes and walkers who have to deal with warning shots on the part of the police. Ladies and gentlemen, while you're pulling mask shows inside here, you only have to look at the balconies of your ministries, then you see how seriously your own employees – as far as I'm informed a cabinet chief representative – take your mask show and other measures. Ladies and gentlemen, Many people, treat parts of the population You are worse than serious criminals, and this without revealing the basis of these measures until now! Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are on a crossroads. It is about either going into one, as you call it, new normality – an exception state to bring it to the point – or due to this country into normality; and for the latter, we will stand up and fight resolutely! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I come to the end and tell you: It's enough! Over a million victims of your social and economic policies are enough. It's enough! We do not allow you to continue to take warnings against walkers and against the normal population. Finally, I can tell you one more thing: Many in the population would like you to be on the side of the Ministry of the Interior – the Minister of the Interior is unfortunately not present – to deal as hard with real criminals, drug dealers and the like as you are now dealing with the righteous population, because then we would have fewer problems in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, enough! Stop with that madness! The people are not the government's own bodies, no free will of your own, and no criminals at all!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e9721	Mr Zorba is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e9754	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Values Advisors! The theme of today's current hour is transparency, and transparency means trust in crisis situations, as well as otherwise. Well, how can this trust be made, how do you inform the population? In the Corona crisis, we have to deal with complex data and numbers, and it is important to prepare these figures and data well and communicate them clearly. The information material is distributed via various channels, via TV, radio and also in social media. In addition, for example, on the Health Ministry's website there are information materials in different languages – in English and Bosnian to Turkish – and in addition to the website there is also an interactive dashboard available, on which you can read daily figures, how it is about infections in different districts or at national level, and on which the sleeping capacity in hospitals can also be seen. In the sense of an open data strategy, these data are also available for download in CSV form for machine processing. These are first important steps to ensure transparency and confidence in a crisis situation. There are other projects that have been included in the government programme, for example, a general open data strategy and also a modern information freedom law for which we have been working for years. This is a cultural change in transparency that we will bring about in Austria in order to live up to a modern democracy in 2020. Well, mistakes can also happen, it happens which one, we have seen in the last days and weeks, but important is how to deal with these mistakes – that also creates trust. I would like to say a few words about the Red Cross app: Civil society and NGOs have put points such as the disclosure of the code into space. That's gonna happen. Today, there was a press conference of those NGOs who already received the code in advance. In addition to praise, there are also a few points that need to be made up, and these will also be up-to-date. The question of voluntaryity has also been unmistakably communicated. – All these are measures to ensure transparency. There are also points from colleagues of the opposition, which I can support, but unfortunately there is no script on this crisis, which can already be predicted, which will happen in four, five or ten months. It is therefore important to continue to make sensible decisions and to communicate them clearly and clearly. This crisis presents us with challenges and opportunities. It is important that we learn from these experiences in order to be prepared for future crises, such as a threatening climate disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e9797	MEP Künsberg Sarre has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e9824	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Dear viewers in front of the screens! If I listen to and look at the discussions, the press conferences and, Mr Bundeskanzler, even your statement from the past, then I conclude that the kindergarten children and pupils do not really have a very high priority for you. [[Congratulations on Members of the NEOS.]] The Federal Government has needed a good four weeks until it has made a proposal, how the Matura can proceed and how the examinations can take place this year – so there is a solution that we welcome – but for about one million students, 300,000 kindergarten children, their parents – very many single parents – all teachers, elementary teachers, that is, for probably more than two million people, there is still no plan and no perspective after almost six weeks. Yes, we heard yesterday, on Friday it should be so far – wonderful! – with regard to schools: a PK announcing a PK. I do not understand at all why you do not take the opportunity to present this level plan for the schools you seem to have here in Parliament. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Vogl.]] [[Abg. Kickl: I think that Parliament should mean something to you!]] There are tens of thousands of dedicated families, mothers and fathers who have struggled in the last few weeks, to bring work and home schooling or the care of smaller children into a hat. I don't know anyone who can work well with infants for weeks, and I don't know anyone who teaches younger children just by the way – and believe me, I know what I'm talking about: I have three school-based children at home, who are supposed to make home schooling on various digital channels. We need a reliable plan and not just the school master's statement: It's no shame to send the children to the care!, from you. [[In the case of NEOS, members of the FPÖ and the Agg. Vogl.]] I don't understand why you're saying this all the time. What do you mean? You're using this statement? [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: I have already asked myself that! ...! The shame is pronounced once!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] We do not have any evidence at present, whether children or young people are so-called super-preachers, but we do very well to have evidence and scientific knowledge of the negative effects of long school closures and kindergarten closures, for example, on the health of children and the fact that the socially well-founded educational shears continue to differ. Here is a small extract of the open questions as a help for Friday: What exactly is the plan for kindergartens and schools? Kindergarten keyword: When does the Minister responsible take responsibility and also devote himself to this area? Which group sizes do you think? When is the hygiene plan for kindergartens and schools? What about children with special educational needs? What about the children in German classes? You never speak of them at all. – Finally put the children in focus, put them at the top of your priority list, please! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] There is not only black or white in the present phase, open or closed, hop or drop, no, we need a level plan. Today, together with the SPÖ and the FPÖ, we will make a request on this subject, which takes into account various aspects, namely regional and local circumstances, a request concerning the care intensity and the needs of children. There are a variety of variants of how to do this at different locations. Of course, we always take into account health development – it is quite logical to look at it and compare it again and again – but it is certainly not a solution to exclude the youngest from education and care and social life over a long period of time. In conclusion: Of course, my special thanks to the children and young people. We are all aware, hopefully, that many of them have great concerns, many fears and, above all, quite a lot of questions as to how things continue. Planning So you also realize that when schools and kindergartens are re-opened, it takes time to get young children back into kindergarten, or that schoolchildren have enough time to see themselves and arrive at school, and please take out the learning pressure! What our children need in the next few weeks next to this perspective and next to a plan is not more fear-making, but cohesion, confidence and the feeling that we as a society can make it together.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e9903	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[11:19:15]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e9925	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e10059	Furthermore, I would like to point out the report of the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Regions and Tourism according to § 57 para. 2 Federal Law on Civil Service and its related financial provision for the years 2017, 2018 and 2019, III-125 of the Supplements, to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e10083	In order to be able to negotiate item 28, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the setting up of the Committee's report. This is the report of the Committee on Immunities on the request of the Regional Administrative Court of Carinthia for approval of the official persecution of the Member of the National Council. Christian Ragger, 118 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a derogation from the time-limit for this committee report, to have a sign of approval. – That is unanimous. I announce that a debate will take place following the declarations made by the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor within the meaning of § 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the present sufficiently supported request. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e10125	The debate on points 1 to 6, 7 to 10, 13 to 15, 16 and 17, 18 and 19 and 23 to 25 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e10146	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. A day block time of 7.5 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times will arise: for the ÖVP 146, for the SPÖ 101, for the FPÖ 83, for the Green 75 and for the NEOS 60 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club, 30 minutes each; in addition, their speaking time shall be limited to 5 minutes per debate. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is also unanimously adopted. Let's go into the agenda. [[11:21:32]] 1. Point Statements by the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on “Current developments on the Corona virus SARS-COV-2/COVID-19” 2. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 380/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerhard Kaniak, colleagues with regard to complete information policy on the threat scenarios by the Corona virus disease in Austria and Europe (61 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Health on motions for resolutions 388/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerhard Kaniak, colleagues on the supply of medicinal products and the regulation on the safeguarding of the supply of medicinal products (62 d.b.) 4. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 223/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, ladies and gentlemen, on the cost of health care for violent perpetrators (63 d.b.) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 234/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on the end of the insurance scheme (64 d.b.) 6. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 243/A by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on a federal law amending the Health and Social Aid Act (65 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e10249	We now come to points 1 to 6 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. I can give the floor to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to make the statement. – Mr Bundeskanzler, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e10274	Mr President. Estimated colleagues on the government bank! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! But above all, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I must admit, I feel a sense of joy and relief if I can listen to the debate here in Parliament. I therefore feel a sense of joy and relief, because the debate, as it is taking place, once again has a lot of normality. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] It also shows that in Austria we can worry more than we have to do in other countries. When I hear: When does the school lock up? When which class? How exactly is that there with the hygiene measures?, and there is a crazy pressure to get quick answers now, then that fills me with joy, because in our neighbouring country Italy the schools are no longer opened this semester. It also fills me with joy when I hear about which topics can be discussed here, because this shows us that in the last few weeks we should have done a lot right, that it is just a fact that we have mastered the crisis better than other countries, and that we can now ask ourselves the question: How do we drive the country up again? – unlike other countries that cannot ask this question. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Now, if I hear the question: Was all of this really necessary, so many didn't die at all?Then I ask you to follow the basic rules of mathematics. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Who asks this question? Who is asking this question?]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Heinisch-Hosek]] All those who do not work for this, I suggest looking at other countries in Europe – looking at Italy, looking at France, looking at Spain – then you can see very quickly how the situation would be if we had not acted as Austria. In this context, a great deal of thanks to all Austrians, who were so disciplined, but also so wise to follow these measures with immense hardness, to limit themselves, to go through many things, to relinquish, but who have done something good for themselves and others and today together bear the responsibility that we stand there better than others. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Before I arrived in Parliament this morning, I already had a number of telephone calls with other Heads of Government, which, of course, asked quite different questions. They asked: How did you do so well? What can we learn from you? Can you tell us how you are going on in the next few days? – It is interesting to see that not only have many countries copied our way when it comes to closing down, but also now, in re-arranging, other countries, such as Germany, are gradually taking over our plan. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] In this respect, from my point of view – that is the first – it shows: The measures we have taken were correct, and I am grateful for the fact that we as a government have not put them alone, but that, even though some of the insides may already have forgotten, we have done so over the party borders. Although you may see your own actions differently today, I am grateful to you for having taken this path so far that we have taken the measures together. From my point of view, all the parties here have equal merit because this path has all gone together. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Secondly, I would like to thank you for helping all of you as Members across the political groups to encourage the people to stay at home, to reduce social contacts, to wear masks and others. They have all contributed to the fact that fewer people have died in Austria than in other countries – a great thank you too. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I would like to thank you a third time: Since we have gone this consistent path across the party borders and since we have managed to cross the party borders, that we have only 50 newly infected people today, always under 100 in the last days, we can now drive Austria up economically and socially faster than other countries can do. I thank you for that too. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] A few weeks ago, at the end of March, we had an exponential growth of 1,000 newly infected per day, rising. Now, a few weeks later, we are at a level of about 50 newly infected per day, in the last few days it has always been a value below 100. This is an international peak, this decline is almost unique across Europe, and so I am glad that we are now in a position to drive the country up cautiously but again. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] We do this as soon as possible, but we do not be irresponsible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] We want a maximum of freedom, but yes, I tell you honestly: There will continue to be restrictions. I am very, very glad that the plan we have worked out as a government, based on today's information and today's status – it can change everything very quickly at a time like this one in which we live. We can do with 1. In May, trade and most of the services are re-increasing. [[Abg. Belakovich: On 1. May? Really?- Oh, my God!]] We can do 15 at the age of 15. May the gastronomy, the public transport of parties, the houses of God and gradually the schools re-arrange. We are also working at European level with our partners on how the border regime continues and how we can gradually regain travel freedom. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] You may not be surprised that first of all the particularly successful countries can open their borders to each other again. So for everyone who is concerned about travel, it is also good to live in a country where the rate of infection is very, very low. I very much hope that we will soon succeed in taking steps forward, especially with Germany, because we have a long common border with Germany and through this border many families have been separated, many people do not fully get to their workplace – that is very, very difficult for these people living in the border area. [[Abg. Kickl:... nothing more!]] Of course, we are not yet the target, quite the opposite. We must learn to live with the virus in the next few months, until there is a vaccination or a drug. [[Abg. Belakovich: Will take years!]] We must learn to have a maximum of freedom, but at the same time be so careful that it does not come back to an uncontrolled increase in infections. If even one of the most disciplined countries in the world, in Singapore, can happen that there is a second wave, that the numbers rise at once again quickly, then this shows how cautious we must be. I therefore call on all people – even if we are gradually returning to the country – to keep their distance where it is possible to wear oral nose protection where it makes sense and to respect the hygiene rules. I also work on the fact that, as a Federal Government, we are doing everything together with the federal states to make our contribution to ensure that re-enhancement is the best possible way: in the Ministry of Health and in the federal states, by increasing test capacity and also through a containment strategy. We as Austria are in a pioneering role. We've managed faster than others to control the spread of the virus. This gives us the opportunity to support other countries too. I am glad that we have received corona intensive patients from other countries, and we have expressed this invitation once again for countries in need of support. We have also agreed with the countries of the Western Balkans that we will support them with medical equipment, because it is also a task of the Republic of Austria to be in solidarity with other countries at such a time – especially those who need our help because they are economically worse, but also those who have come through the crisis worse. For Austria, our goal is clear: Keep the corona virus in check and at the same time raise the economy and society as quickly as possible – as quickly as possible, but never irresponsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e10422	I thank the Federal Chancellor for his statement and give the floor to Mr Vice-Chancellor. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e10444	Mr President. Members of the Government Bank! Honourable Members! I also turn to the spectators and thank all those who live here in Austria and have been so good at it, because it is a common success! I can only point out that in Austria we have certainly achieved a success with regard to the development of the figures – I am not saying which one at all. But it is certainly a success, and this success has come faster and more intensive than I expected – and this is what enables us to do. To present plans in which steps not only are loosened, as one says, but as well as certain areas of life can be raised again. But my thanks also apply to you. – What may not be so well known: We have weekly conferences, especially with the party leaders and the club members of the opposition parties. We actually have a very good exchange there, and we can also take along suggestions again and again. I also follow the debates of Members and the contributions to the social media. We are trying to take up something or work on it; and since there is such an interesting dispute now, I would like to say almost, between the Schellhorn Member and myself, I do not want to stand up to thank him too. We try again and again to take something, we don't always succeed in the same intense. This is important to me because I have been sitting on your side of the banks for a long time. Take this sincerely! Yes, but back to the lock-up plan – to say it salopp –: I'm not concerned now that success is right for us. However, this is certainly the right thing to do, because with calls – it was open, if you can create a bit of parliamentary one from the government bank – like: Yes, you see, how little this is, what have you done to yourselves and done to us?!, and so on, I can't actually start much, because it was always a weighing at the time of the decision. And if we had not put in place certain measures, we would all be sitting there differently. That must be clear. By the way: In times of such uncertainty, responsible decision-making can only mean observing – we will continue to do so – to inform, analyse, then weigh and then make decisions. I think this is responsible – I think it is responsible! – I think everything else is charlatanry. So I'm the suspekt who always know it very well now, most of it in retrospect. That is completely nonsense in this situation, there can be no such thing. It's exactly that: watch, inform, analyze and then weigh and decide. That's what we're trying to do. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] No one can say whether this is always right, I do not even claim it, nor the chancellor, but we can try it under certain decision-making rules, which, as I mean, are quite rationally based and – yes – are also carried on with confidence, because now more is possible again, and which are also subject to a reasonable, planned approach and action. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] And yes, it is also a matter of determination, namely if we have to respond if the figures develop differently. We're gonna dare a lot again. It's much easier to go down everything. You have all said that yourself, I believe, and there will be consensus. It is much more difficult to see in which areas in which you get up again. – I see Clubob wife Rendi-Wagner nod. I also thank her for having always played a very constructive role in these contributions, as I have seen in the media appearances – we have a very constructive role where one can objectively, indeed largely similar assessments. I think that would make it clear that we can continue to work that way in the future. But these are just decisions under uncertain conditions. That's our procedure. But what does that mean? – We were more successful than we believed. I can tell you what the bar if we want to keep it – because then you always ask: Well, what do we measure that? – is what it concludes: that we do not want to overload the health system, even if it is so often It was said, and above all, that the intensive medical capacity did not exaggerate until the end, because we now want normality to come back there as far as it is – the Minister of Health has already announced it, that is also true with the opinion of the opposition – when we have to re-run the normal operation in the health system, otherwise we have a higher mortality there. That's not the point of the exercise either. But we already see that a lot is happening at the same time, some gradually in a row, and not everything is predictable. What does this responsibility and this determination mean? – That means that we also have to react when we see some numbers develop – from this perspective then: unfortunately – otherwise; then we will not take some next steps so fast. There are also countries that are constantly referred to as a model, South Korea, for example – we all observe that exactly – which my information has had to postpone after four times the school opening. Is that a shame? - No, I don't. Is it right – key to planning security for parents, for the children et cetera – to announce a date in the next few days at all, how this can look about? Is that right? - Yes. Is it time to do that? - Yes. Why? - Because we can afford it. These are the contexts, and that is exactly how we shall proceed. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] The relevant ministers of expertise will do so during the period up to 1. May be introduced. Propos 1. May: On the basis of the observation of the figures, we have decided to take two-week steps. Why? – We are also in agreement with the Minister for Health: This is the shortest possible period in which developments as a result of the previous steps can already be seen. And if the aim is not to overload the health system, that means that we are looking at the developments of the curves: firstly, of course, with regard to the number of newly infected people – as long as these remain in absolute numbers below 100, as we said yesterday, you don't have to worry a lot – and if something changes, you have to look at the dynamics. Where any recovery of exponential growth in certain critical indicators in a few weeks can lead to a rise in the capacity limits of the health system, we need to take this into account in the run-up. We will certainly continue to deal with the model calculators – even if they are admittedly not always of an opinion. By the way, however, we will try to continue to decide on the principle of caution. We are now risking a lot, as I said, in the best sense of the word, but we are going to see how this can go out until the end – to the end always means: in foreseeable periods of time, having reference to the health system. Of course, the whole thing has a goal of preventing a second major wave of infection or disease, because that would be psychologically fatal, of course. – This is not excluded; of course, we have another project. In any case, this must be prevented, and therefore there are the announcements of the gradual opening. All of this is, so to speak, the bouquet of the different goals that must and should be reconciled. That is the art to achieve. It is not an art to say – some lobbyists are already on the pirch with their calls, or it is certainly a privilege of the opposition that individuals, for example, in various days of land, emerge and say that –: Why didn't we do all this differently?- Oh, my God! – That's exactly what I meant before. No, I don't think it's art. The art is there to plan and act responsibly, so to speak, with little perspective in the future. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Speaking of the future: But it is still time to give you a few thoughts about this, which the government as a whole, but also individual members of the government, because we are so confident that we also think further. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Of course, there is a time after the crisis. Until then, that must also be clear, much is unusual, it is not customary normality. New standards will be crystallized until we have a vaccination – I see that. However, it is of course also important at the stage to pursue other essential objectives, namely social cohesion. What does this mean for certain groups, especially disadvantaged ones, and, yes, I say quite clearly, also for the economy in Austria? – Of course, we also need to ensure that value creation can happen, because we all live on it. In this respect, you will see that in the future, when we have the health crisis, other goals will come to the fore, which will have to deal with crisis again anyway, because anyone who does not believe that this impact will trigger a massive economic crisis is naïve. But we can also look at how we can get out better in Austria and in Europe than others or what measures to take. If I can express a hope, I say that has a lot to do with social and economic matters. With all the appreciation and all the pledges we express towards certain groups, which, as the President of the Union has said, are now keeping the shop, the Republic in progress, it should not be left in case of one-off payments, in the case of value-giving rallys. You have to ask yourself the question at all – and I have an idea regarding answers – whether it can be different, namely that these professional groups will receive a different reward in the future than they do now. How can it be that those we apostrophic as the most important ones at the end, when we look at them, deserve the least? – I do not think that this can remain a question of market power, which must also be a question of who or what will benefit us as a whole. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] So there will be new debates, new questions will be raised, and we will all try together to find answers that can be given a bit more ideology-freer at this point, as you have said earlier, when it comes to translating appreciation into real participation. Just leaving supply and demand would be very helpful. Yes, if it is true that the caregivers and harvest workers are so important, why are they at the bottom of the scale? - Something's wrong! [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] So I think there are different possibilities, and the luxury, to say that, I have taken out. I do not see any light here at all, nor does the President remind me, which leads me to a second final outlook: [[Interference of Federal Minister Anschhober]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rendi-Wagner]] I believe that when it comes to investing out of the crisis – and it will need it; we have several stages ahead of us; we need to stabilise and secure the economy and social cohesion, of course, after the emergency aid measures, it will be necessary to take measures that respond to this situation. One of them will have to do with where one wants to divert private – yes – but also public investment. I would like to say now that it would simply be wrong, because contradictions in the sense of thought: Now there has been a crisis and now everything is different! to construct. - No, I don't. I mean, work, the economy – yes – and the environment has to be thought together only now to invest us out of the crisis with state-of-the-art technologies. The same applies in the European dimension. There are opportunities for both Austria and Europe. These are the branches of the future with which we have a chance for China or the USA at all. – Yes, please, then the faster in there! European solidarity will already play a role in this context. I am not talking about the various instruments. There are various ways in which Spain, Italy and you name it can be “helped” under quotation marks. One thing is certain: that they need cheaper loans, in whatever ways – of which there are at least three, four, five. That this can't happen without rules, I see that. But one thing has to be clear: It's not just unethical or immoral if you want to let them hang now – earlier you would have said: unolidarian – it's also unwise. Those who help Italy also help Austria – look at Carinthia and the economic ties! [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and MEPs from ÖVP, SPÖ and NEOS.]] You have to have that on the list, of course. With regard to Europe – a happy message could be there; I think that goes, even without gross ideological access: The kind of globalisation that we have now experienced has a completely demarcated and therefore de-inhibited, also has its price when it comes to it. Precautionary principle and safety: Actually, one should try to ensure that there are certain independences. That means there are also new production opportunities and methods inside. Let us just think of the productions in the medical field and the maintenance of a European health system! So what's the name? – Every crisis should be a chance, and we should and should be able to reflect on it with confidence. Yes, and the determination to gradually lock up the key should still be preserved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e10619	Mr Vice-Chancellor, thank you for your comments. The statements by the members of the Federal Government have no time limit – we are bound in the debate after d’Hondt; there is a recommendation on the current hour – so that you are completely free in this case. In this sense, we are going into the debate; there has been no oral reporting. Klubobfrau Dr. Pamela Rendi-Wagner has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e10649	Mr President. Dear Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! These are times of crisis in which it needs more clarity, more credibility, more trust than usual. When it comes to clarity, the goal was, at least a few weeks ago, when the Shutdown announced when it was decided, but clear. The goal was known, namely the curve to flatten the famous epidemiological corona curve and thus prevent too many infections from overburdening our health system in a short time. This has succeeded, thanks to the discipline of many people in Austria, but the big question that now arises after all these weeks of kidnapping is: How's it going? – In this respect, one hears from the Federal Government and today again from the famous driving sight, where there are experts – some have already been mentioned by colleague Schwarz today – who say that this state of emergency can not only last weeks and months, but perhaps even many months, up to three years; 2023 has been mentioned as a goal or as a year in which a vaccine will be present. I am conscious of the state of emergency, I am not talking about the new normality, because it is not normal for me and for us to have 600,000 unemployed in Austria – a record number since 1946. It is not normal for women to be thrown back through this corona crisis into outdated role images of the 1950s: back home to childcare, home office perhaps included – even that is not normal, neither for women nor for our society! It is also not normal for us to experience such interventions in freedom. It is not normal for grandparents to see and embrace their children and grandchildren over weeks and maybe even months ahead of us. Nor is it normal to be able to visit dying relatives who are in the hospital. All of this is not normal, and it is not a new normality – it may be a longer state of emergency that lies ahead of us, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] However, one thing is clear: The acute phase is over. We are in a new phase, the second phase, as you mentioned, Mr Bundeskanzler. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits.]] The path will be a longer one, and this path should be “paved with credibility, ” as a journalist wrote in an Austrian daily about one or two weeks ago. A few days ago, you, dear members of the Federal Government, said it would take months and the situation would remain difficult. Even today you said again that we would experience a new normality with as much freedom as possible and as many restrictions as we need. But one thing cannot be, Mr President-in-Office, that over this longer period of time we have the situation that the Federal Government alone decides how to behave in this longer state of emergency. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This longer phase requires a different political approach than during an acute crisis situation, another political approach that takes into account the different needs of our society: the needs of women, families, the unemployed, the elderly, the single and single educators. [[Abg. Steinacker: Entrepreneur...!]] It is necessary that our whole society jointly develop these new rules for the longer state of emergency, that they give themselves together these new rules. We have to figure out how to look at these rules. This is not only from the government bank, it is only in an open, honest discourse that our society must conduct with you, the representatives of politics. It must not be that, as usual in the acute phase, the government is decreed by decree, decreed or granted freedom – that is not what I imagine for the next months or perhaps even years! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Fireplaces.]] One thing I say to you very clearly: A country, to rule a democracy such as Austria for months or even years with events and regulations, will not go with us, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you are here today praising the common approach of politics – government and opposition, across all party borders – then I say: Yes, let's go this way together, across all borders! I expect all the political forces, all the parties in this country, the social partners, as well as NGOs and stakeholders to decide together on this path in the coming years. It is also important to decide who will at the end of the crisis bear the costs. We do not have to discuss this question until tomorrow, no, we need to start discussing it today! It is clear that all, really everyone in Austria, must make their contribution to this. There are neoliberal think tanks, which have already appeared last week and have made proposals, namely to increase consumption taxes, i.e. taxes such as VAT. Ladies and gentlemen, it is always the same pattern: The workers who are supposed to pay consumers. I would like to say one thing in all its clarity: If you, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, even remember to have the working people paid at the end of the crisis, then you will already expect the clearest, strongest and greatest resistance to social democracy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] What is not daily in the press conferences and even today the talk of thanks to the heroes of our daily lives in the crisis! – One thing we cannot and will not allow, namely that today’s heroes and heroes of the crisis are those who pay the costs of the crisis tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen! The crisis has led us to see who are the true performance providers in Austria. It has led us to see how much we in society depend on each other, how important a strong social state is, how important a functioning, solidar and well-financed health system is, how vital solidarity and community are. All of this has led us to this crisis, and it has come about not only in the last few weeks, not only in the next few months, but also in the fight against the virus will it come about, but also on the way out of this crisis! The solidarity of all, the solidarity of the large online companies, the solidarity of the millionaires of our country, and the contributions of the financial markets, will be needed. In order to get Austria out of this crisis as far as possible, it will need more than a willingness to help: There will have to be an honest cooperation, an honest cohesion, an honest and living solidarity. We will take care of this, because that is our task and our responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e10731	Mr Klubobmann Wöginger has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e10752	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has acted quickly and correctly – this shows and demonstrates the figures, if there are now constantly fewer than 100 new infections per day – and only that is why we get through this crisis better than many other countries. The measures put in place show their impact: on the one hand, in the statistics, and on the other, in support of the people concerned, whether they be entrepreneurs, it is the workers who are now in some cases very affected by this crisis, in terms of income losses. I would like to point out once again that we have made the decisions so far – and these were very, very important and necessary! – for the most part have met together here in the House. Finally, this was also a very good and positive signal to the entire Austrian population, because it is especially important in such a crisis situation to demonstrate this cohesion. I do not want to thank you for the fact that this has all worked very well in Parliament! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] But we must also be open and honest, and I would like to add a few figures to this: There are currently about 80 000 applications for short work; in the last crisis there were few hundred. There were 144,000 applications in phase for assistance from the hardness fund. Since Monday, phase two has been running, and 60,000 applications have already been received. Approximately one million workers are currently affected by short-term work, and of course there is a very high number of unemployed people. This also applies, of course, to our attention and support, both in the field of entrepreneurship and in the field of workers. What I want to express with it: It is an absolute exceptional situation, and in the individual ministries, the AMS, the Chamber of Commerce, as well as in many offices and authorities, such as the security bodies, it is very much being used to implement the measures taken, so that people finally get their support and the funds flow. I ask for understanding that in view of these enormous figures, not everything can be done immediately, and at the same time I would like to thank all those who work almost around the clock to ensure that these funds, these 38 billion euros in total, come to the payment to the people concerned, which is the best possible support. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] You can probably say in retrospect: If we had done something else! or: Maybe we could've done that even better! – In such a situation, I believe, one can only do that: provide a lot of resources and see that those concerned are adequately supported. All in all, this requires enormous effort to ensure that these funds are distributed at the end of the day. I would now like to put one aspect into the debate, because we have been discussing it for days, and this is about the Cofag Advisory Council. This is the corona financing GmbH, which we have jointly adopted here, and it is about all the political groups represented in Parliament sending members to this advisory board. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn]] [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mrs Rendi-Wagner, you have rightly referred to common ground and, so to speak, to honest cooperation. But this is both a debt and a debt. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] If, on the one hand, we are required to make the flow of information available in a timely manner, I do not understand why the opposition parties do not send members in this advisory board who directly decide on liabilities, loans, guarantees and grants to the entrepreneurs concerned. I do not understand, ladies and gentlemen, and I really ask you to make your members famous and send them! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Then, of course, we can also talk about accompanying control in Parliament. However, I am already referring to the fact that we have adopted and agreed reporting obligations to the Budget Committee in a number of laws – this is certainly necessary. The case is quite clear that this monitoring here in Parliament is sufficiently guaranteed and given. We would like to discuss the setting up of an additional committee, in which all the corona or covid measures are grouped together and are processed there in the framework of reports to ensure that this control is carried out by Parliament. But I ask you again: Send your members also to the Cofag Advisory Board! This, too, is part of a working cooperation. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Now it is about resuming the systems, gradually returning to a certain normality, but it will be another. As we call it, one thing is clear: It won't be the way it was in the next few months. As long as we do not have any medicines, as long as there is no vaccine, we will all be asked to continue to follow these measures with regard to hygiene measures as far as distance control is concerned. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] I would like to quote the Vice-Chancellor once again because I liked it very much when he said: “Watch, inform, analyze, [...] weigh and decide. ” – Yes, it is, ladies and gentlemen! That is exactly what we and the Federal Government have been doing for weeks – with a very careful consideration and with a careful approach to easing measures, which brings a gradual return to a certain but other normality. That's what it's all about! Because it gives the numbers, ladies and gentlemen, and that's only why! – we can gradually implement further easing measures at the beginning of May and reopen the business – only that is why I would like to stress that. And I say it again: It's not a horror scenario, and I refuse the accusation that fear is being startled! – Mrs. Colleague, what we really don’t want – these pictures have taken me to the bones on which I had to see it – is that coffins are stacked in churches or that mass graves, as in America, are removed on uninhabited islands, in which the coffins are stacked. [[Abg. Belakovich: No, no, no!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Thank you for this upbuilding...!]] [[Abg. Kickl:... the coffins!]] There is a massive demand for policy to do everything to prevent such a situation from happening in a country, and this is what we are doing, ladies and gentlemen. I am glad and grateful that I can live in this country! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] ==References== May all shops are locked up again, including the service sector in this area, in mid-May then gastronomy, tourism and also schools – of course, these gradually. Minister Fässmann is working around the clock on a plan to accomplish this with the schools. Why? – Because schools are different in terms of number of students and because the situation there is of course that the children in a class where 25 students are sitting next to each other. I do not need to have studied anything, as I think, but it is a matter of understanding that schooling is a real challenge. I'm a practitioner and I know my inn at home, too: Of course, it will also be necessary there, certain - - – well, we are regional politicians and we are talking to people. [[Mr Belakovich and Mr Kassinger were cheerful.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] I don't know what it's like for you – we're with people when we can! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Stammer.]] Last At the end of the day, it is about this gradual opening, up to the churches and the houses of God, so that the operation can also be resumed there. The numbers observe and gradually reopen – that is the command of the hour. Of course, we want to give people back freedom as soon as possible, but with the restrictions that are still necessary. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a request to the SPÖ because it is also rightly requested that the necessary resources be made available for the workers' society as a whole. I think we have achieved a lot with the short-term work solution: The most important thing is once income, and since between 80 and 90 percent for around one million employees ensure that is a great achievement! [[Congratulations to the ÖVP and to Mr Ernst-Dziedzic and Mr Maurer.]] The provision of resources for family hard work is precisely one of the measures to benefit families, especially children, as well as a wide range of other support measures, as well as rental facilities et cetera. But I would like to give you one thing – I think it is very crucial –: The Chambers of Workers in Tyrol and Vorarlberg have shown that workers can now also be provided with funds from the Chambers of Workers. These are the funds of the workers they pay there month after month. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] Now many of them are in a crisis situation, in a really difficult situation. Through the control committees, we also know the financial statements of the individual workers' chambers. I ask you – and expect me – to contact your Social Democratic President and the remaining seven federal states. Whether with or without participation in the country, I really don't care about it, but I expect the legal representation of workers to provide funds for those workers who are now really afflicted by this crisis. [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP]] That's an hour's commandment! Put it on!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e10911	Mr Klubobmann Herbert Kickl is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e10936	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Appreciate High House! Dear Austrians! Well, after five weeks of your anticorona measures, it is really appropriate to take a balance sheet, and you will not be surprised that from my point of view it looks a little different from yours. First of all, however, on the positive aspects: Yes, it is undisputed that in the field of health, development in Austria is a positive one. We look forward to returning figures as regards the infections, we are pleased with declining rates of death, we are pleased that there are more people who are healthy or become healthy than people who are re-infect. This is a positive development, which is excellent and I am pleased. But this is just the first look at things, Mr. Federal Chancellor. I believe that if you want to be honest and if you want to go to the bottom of things, you also need a second look, a deeper look, and I want to try it together with you now. Mr. Bundeskanzler Kurz, you can now feel addressed, and also all the other members on the government bank who believe that this place is there for you to follow the debate, and not that this is a place that is particularly suitable for you to play around with your phone permanently – so that I have put it in place. You're all allowed to feel at home! [[Complementary by members of FPÖ and SPÖ.]] I have a few very simple questions to ask you: Why, Mr Bundeskanzler, is the development in the area of newly infected people clearly a positive one even in Sweden? Why is that so? Why is the trend towards the death rate in general also in Sweden a positive one compared with many other countries whose decision-makers, like you, have taken quite restrictive measures? First of all, Mr Bundeskanzler: Why is it that neither the health system in general nor intensive medicine have completely collapsed in Sweden? – I think these are very legitimate questions, legitimate questions, because Sweden is very, very much – in order not to say: almost everything – makes it different than you do. They know that in Sweden throughout the year 2020, public life is actually provided without major restrictions, that the shops and restaurants are open there, that people are going to shop, that they meet that the children are in kindergartens, that in schools, of course, they are also taught in primary schools. [[Call the ÖVP: Have you ever been to Sweden?]] Addressed to you, Mr Vice-Chancellor: They know that the children there also follow their sporting activity, for example in football clubs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz]] You know that events with up to 50 people are allowed. Nor is it known to me that the government is working to stifle its own citizens by means of big data, and is it only then making a withdrawal when it is cleared up regarding the ugly intentions. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am also not aware of the fact that the government's leading representatives are denoting walkers as life-hazardous people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I don't know all of this. That's a pretty different way than the one you're taking, and I'm wondering, Why, then, is development also a generally positive one there? [[Call the ÖVP:Read the paper once!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker.]] You, Mr Vice-Chancellor, said earlier: Well, you can't know everything. – Now I would like to remind you of your own words and, in particular, the words of the Chancellor, because you knew very, very much, very well – you knew exactly! – and this is what we are going to do now. According to your theory, Federal Chancellor, there should already be at least 100 000 dead in Sweden. There would have to be explosive developments as to the infections. You talked about it at the beginning of March when you talked about calm before the storm. You have announced that if you do not follow your path, the entire health system and intensive medicine will collapse with bombs and grenades. You have said that there will be a mass death that will put everything else in the shadow if it doesn't go as you have described it as the only way. Why is that not the case in Sweden? Why don't every day about the news broadcasts the pictures of the coffins in the Austrian living rooms that Mr Wöginger already wanted to see every day? [[Abg. Steinacker: Certainly not longing!]] Why aren't the ice halls being converted into body halls? All these were pictures you worked with, Mr. Federal Chancellor, for many weeks you have done this work. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Free!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] There was no press conference, no interview from you in which these horror scenarios were not painted on the wall! In the darkest colors all this has been drawn: If Austria does not follow the measures of the Federal Chancellor in brief, then all this will occur. – You knew that very well, Mr Kogler, that you should deal with your Chancellor! You've done what you're talking about. They put the population in fear and terror. We know that it was the ÖVP's stuffed troupes in the media sector that intervened with individual media, so that as many images as possible of Särgen are shown in the reporting. That is, you have not only taken the fear of the population into account, but you have calculated with it – and that is a serious accusation I am making to you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I don't know what's so important: [[towards Bundeskanzler Kurz]] Take part in a competition, or what will always lead you to look at your mobile phone instead of listening to it? Federal Chancellor, this is also a form of respect! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They've used people's primes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sobotka.]] The primary concern of people is that there is no concern greater than that of one's own health and one's own life. This also applies, of course, to close relatives, to children, parents, friends, and acquaintances. That's what you've used with it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] Do you know what you've done with it? – Your new normality They are made with it, which consists in the fact that denunciants are now driving their beings in this country in search of life-hazards – almost in Stasi manner! They have brought it to such an extent that people are so scared – because they are concerned about their own health – that they even carry the mask alone in their own car that protects them from nothing at all; that they meet people who are on their own and wear this mask, although they do not endanger anyone else and are not threatened by anyone else. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz]] So far you have brought it because you have systematically prepared the ground! They have also brought it so far that one or other adulterer is mistakenly viewed or even locked out, as if he were a disease bringer if he travels a few kilometers outside his own residential area and there seeks relaxation in nature. This is the new normality, the other normality. You must also note that you have produced this in a black and green co-production. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Something else – and I'm not saying this because it's using me, but I'm buying that it hurts me –: With all this, you have been supported by a variety of media – not all of them; I have great respect for those who have not been involved in this fear machine – of many media that you have processed and purchased in your off-record private circles or with a package. [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Steinacker and Gabriela Schwarz.]] The worst thing is that exactly this purchase of one medium or another is then also explained as an alleged expression of a sense of responsibility. So it looks like you can buy and say: When I renounce criticism of the Federal Government, I am particularly responsible and put myself in the service of the national shoulder closure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, you did this because the savior of course needs a stage. These media have prepared this stage for you. Without this stage and without this dramatic staging – the hundreds of thousands, the coffins and so on – there is no savior. That's the story you're telling. You have to let that happen, because those are the facts. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This means that there is not only a savior, but also that those who criticize it are assigned the role of unbelievers heretics, of people who do not have all the cups in the closet and who can only be driven by the worst of all motives, if it does not fit into your concept. This too is a balance sheet of the last weeks and can be considered a description of the new or other normality. No, Mr. Federal Chancellor, no! The story that your crisis management has prevented the major health disaster is no longer going on. The story of the alternativelessness is enchanted, simply because we now – and we learn from the experience – see that there are other ways too – see Sweden. [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: Because Sweden...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] Something else that can be measured very easily, also in Germany and in Austria – and some experts say this already, if they have one more option at all –: It is easy to predict that there has been a decline in the number of infected and deaths already at a time when the measures you have taken have not even been able to take. At last you have to take note of this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Haubner and Mr Gabriela Schwarz.]] But there are actually, in numbers, measurable results of your policy – a few I have already mentioned – in which there is a real causal link: There are 900 000 people in short-time work who do not know what will come after short-time work. What's next? There are hundreds of thousands of unemployed who do not know: Is it going back to the job after that, and if so, under what conditions? Or is the emergency coming? It's going to be sad Christmas for these people, as is the case with many who have just pushed their loads to the back. The thick end comes at the end of the year. It's going to be sad Christmas. Thousands of entrepreneurs – the small ones like the big ones, across all sectors – have deprived you of the basics of existence overnight and have made it a bit of a right to the full compensation. - There's a causal connection. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Because you like to use this word, you could almost speak of lighthouses: What I have now mentioned is the lighthouses of the new normality. This new normality has as hardware a black power bureaucracy, which now gets a few green speckles, and as software the factor fear. This is the operating system of new normality in Austria in 2020, and we do not want that. I don't think that's what most of the population wants. Mr. Federal Chancellor, we all get smarter from experience. With our experience, our treasure of knowledge is increasing, I'm no different from you. That's also the reason why I don't give you any more faith. You would have to make yourself here today and confess to a small degree that your course is not alternativesless. You have to make yourself here and say that your experts are not alone in the possession of the truth. Do you know what the alternative is? – Alternatively, for example, the fact that the earth revolves around the sun and not vice versa is the fact that it took some time, Mr. Federal Chancellor, until the orthodoxy, the authority and the rulers – necessarily – have gone through to give the original heretic justice to the pranger. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker]] I'll just write this to you in the main book, just to think. Their strategy, Mr Bundeskanzler, is nothing but to follow the political flock drive that has begun in China and has continued over other countries. There you jumped up like at the Domino, where a stone sets the next one in motion. They follow the political flock drive. Now I want to give Galileo Galilei another heart because it is about gaining transparency and knowledge. He said: Measure what is measurable, and make measurable, which is not yet measurable. – Today we have that in 1st place. Agenda item discussed: It is about vaccinations, it is about obductions, it is about empirical facts that we need to be able to argue for an appropriate strategy. What you do with your curves, numbers and tables, on the other hand, is to predict a fact-based process, where it is really a blind flight. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] Something else you need to do: You have to stop worrying people directly and indirectly! But they do the exact opposite. Yesterday you spoke again of a thousand Ischgls. What's that supposed to mean?- Oh, my God! – You do the exact opposite when you say there will be a normality until there is a vaccine. That seems to mean that everyone has to start the forced vaccination, Mr. Federal Chancellor, say that to that! It won't play with us! You are also doing the exact opposite, if, despite the many press conferences of this Federal Government – by this afternoon, it was already 60, I have counted – with numerous measures in truth the unemployed, in fact the entrepreneurs, in fact the families with care obligations, tourism, gastronomy, the people suffering from diseases off Corona, are not clear in essential areas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker.]] There is no clarity, no transparency, no planning. What you deliver are contradictions, inconsistencies, inconsistencies. Federal Chancellor, learn from the best! Sit on reason instead of on fear! Friends Use normal normality and say goodbye to your new normality! Stop cokeing with this and raise the state of emergency as a rule! Ladies and gentlemen, I have said this today so emotionally and openly, although I know that I will get many outrages for it; but I would like to make a break that there is a right to represent positions other than the virtues of your new normality in this country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cannon]] [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Another thing: I say this – and this is my last sentence – also because I do not want to have the truth to be another victim of your new normality after the existence of too many people, after the restrictions of freedom and self-determination at the end.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e11201	Mrs. Sigrid Maurer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e11232	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators in front of the screens! At the beginning perhaps a word to colleagues Klubobmann Kickl: I'm trying to take seriously what you're saying here, but I have to say quite honestly: I remember how you responded at the beginning of this crisis, how you couldn't get to your bunkers fast enough. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] I remember, as you have suggested – at a time when we did not know anything at all – to take very radical measures: The lockdown wasn't sharp enough for you. That you are here now and should have suddenly been quite different from what you claimed at the outset does not exactly increase your credibility. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I would also like to say one thing to all those who are constantly coming here with Sweden: They have three times as many dead as Austria, and it is actually the question whether we want it. [[Abg. Kickl: Together, Mrs. Maurer!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] If you want us to have three times as many dead – please. This is certainly not the way that this Federal Government will take. We have chosen the right one, we have few dead, we have few new infections. The figures give us a right and show that the measures work in this way. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I find it totally irresponsible how absolutely impoverishing By the way, you also deal with the data here. But now to the actual content of my speech: In recent weeks, many people have followed the podcast of Christian Drosten, a virologist at the Charité in Berlin, who has very well and very clearly informed about the scientific backgrounds, also about various possible effects of the measures et cetera, and thus contributed to a very broad, good information base for the broad population, because he has made this very good communicative. This virologist Drosten now warns, as the first easings come, of a second wave. Why does he do that? – It is clear: We are all happy that we can slowly reopen some things. The weather is nice, you like to be outside. This ensures a bit of a break-up in spite of all the difficulties we have; this is perfectly understandable. However, we must remain careful, droughts warn of a second wave of infection. He warns that the virus could spread under the ceiling, so to speak, from the fact that worn infections by travel, visits that are currently not shown in the numbers, could spread widely, and that if we do not watch out, a second wave with a much greater weight could therefore come up that could potentially sprung up the capacities in our hospitals. The health system is also being re-opened, so to speak, because all the people in Austria have a right to receive those treatments that we have now postponed because of the corona crisis, which were not super-compulsory. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Loacker]] However, all people have a right to get them now, and they get them. [[New calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Loacker.]] In other words, more beds will be used, so the health staff will also be needed for other things. That means we're no longer in the situation like in the last few weeks. Accordingly, it is extremely important that we continue to stick to the measures and that, because it is now well, we do not develop ideas, act faster, act more thoughtlessly, get up faster. Drosten refers to the Spanish flu. At that time, the second wave of infection was much more dramatic, and in the further waves, much more people died than in the first wave after you believed that you had successfully fought the pandemic. This has led to millions of deaths in Europe. In any event, we want to prevent this situation – we will also prevent it, I am convinced. I am convinced that the Austrian people, who have so far been super involved and who are very grateful to us, will continue to be reasonable and will continue to comply with the measures of Social Distancing so that this situation does not occur. It was and is a common crisis situation. Much has happened at this time of the state of emergency, and the crisis has radically changed the way we live. [[Abg. Belakovich: You have millions of people...!]] People are suddenly a lot at home, they are isolated, they are also thrown back at the smallest family, often on very narrow spaces, and for many, suddenly the social network has been gone, which normally helps and supports: the teacher, who has open ears for a child who has difficulty in a family; the friends with whom one can talk; but potentially also the colleagues at work, the social network from the neighborhood, the extended family, friends and friends. Especially women with care responsibilities have trained extremely much at this time, have mobilized the last reserves, often feeling alone and wondering how long this will take. You have often paid a high price in these last weeks. We're coming into the next phase. The economy of raising public life must, of course, at the same time mean that the social network is also getting closer, that all these contacts are available again, that we need to take special care of the children, especially those who live in very narrow space with their families – we know from teachers that 20 percent of children cannot now be properly achieved in this situation. I would like to say again at this point: The schools are open, the kindergartens are open. We have to say that, I think, even louder so that it can find out the last location. Mr Meinl-Reisinger, I am absolutely right, it is totally unacceptable that there are kindergartens and schools that reject children, because they say the reason is not sufficient, or that there is a need to present a foundation at all. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Then they are not open to everyone!]] There can't be that. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[New call of the abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] There can't be, they have to be open to everyone. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger:... Service! Make your job!]] We are the Federal Government, so we are in the Federal Government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] It is clear that they must be open, and that will have to go through all the municipalities and all the federal states. If there are any cases, I would ask for the specific list, because then there will probably be a need to intervene in the education departments. Just as it was a Community task to reduce the virus, it must also be a Community task to restore public life, social network and relations beyond the family, so that the crisis does not go at the expense of women and not at the expense of children. So far, we've done very well. I'm sure we're going to do well with the further steps. There are many questions open, and I am even sure that we do not know many questions yet. We may not know the answers yet in some things, but we do not know many questions yet. We will face a lot of challenges. It is a global economic crisis that we are facing – I just heard from the Federal Chancellor – the forecast is currently minus 6 percent – but we can learn from this crisis and develop new answers. We will have to talk about the value of the work of those people who are now particularly important to us, whose work is always important, but which is now suddenly becoming more visible: the caregivers, the salesmen in the supermarkets, also the educators, who have certainly missed many parents painfully in the last few weeks since they have had to run home schooling. This includes, for example, the value of regional production, both protective clothing and medicines or food. Of course, it is also about climate protection. There are very few cars on the streets, and this is actually very pleasant, say many people. What are the answers we can find in the future? To shape this future will be a very big challenge, but it is also a great opportunity; and I am sure we can do it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e11365	Next speaker: Mr Josef Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e11389	Madam President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Before I go into the statement of Chancellors and Vice-Cancellors, let me say only two sentences: In a certain way, I am really upset by the statements of Klubobmann Wöginger and Deputies Schwarz. [[Call the ÖVP: About those of the Kickl not?- Oh, my God!]] What do you actually believe is the task of a Parliament? – The task of a Parliament is to critically question the current hours, and you may have no matter what title we choose! [[Congratulation with NEOS and FPÖ.]] They are of such sadness – for over 12,000 days in the government and so wretched – that almost the little child is sorry about what you regret. Mr Wöginger has also said something – and I understood this with the Chancellor of the Federal Republic – that we would have voted in favour of everything, and thanked him for it. – You want to distract from your big problems, that’s the topic. Yeah, we went along at the beginning, that's what Klubobmann Kickl said. We went along because it's first about health, and then it's all about everything else. And because we're everything else on the subject: You've forgotten who it really is! It's about the people out there, it's about the entrepreneurs, it's all about everyone who's out there like we're fighting a chaos every day, with a chaos of announcements in which no one can rely on the guidelines, in which no one can rely on a rule in which no one has a perspective and everyone has completely lost confidence in this government. As regards entrepreneurship: Entrepreneurship is sour, sour, sour and treats it totally negatively. There are Gags of you, for example of Minister of Finance Blümel, who says: We paid 10 billion euros! [[Call the ÖVP: That's not true!]] – There has not been anything in the hands of an entrepreneur, neither about short-time work nor about anything else. Where are these 10 billion euros? Where are they? [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This government, each minister has the task of carrying out his duties with care and transparency. Everything else has dictatorial or totalitarian traits. Care is taken not to deal with the opposition, but also with transparency. Presiding numbers and saying: You know, and once a week we're making a conference call or a video conference!, it's not a transfer of data-based material that we can understand. The ÖVP is a grandmaster of the gesture. We know in short, the Federal Chancellor, who in his own hands closed the Balkan Route and now saved us from hundreds of thousands of dead. This country, which must also be said, has done everything for the end of the shoulder, this country, every human being, here in the hall and outside, has contributed to the fact that these figures are so good. - Yeah, I'll give you that. The entrepreneurs have also done everything, according to the motto: Don't go, don't do that! But everything else? Now is the end of fun, Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister and Mr Bundeskanzler, now is really finished with fun! Now is the time for you to deliver; You must deliver, Mr Vice-Chancellor, with seriousness, with competence, and above all with a really good plan. The fourth ingredient is experts. I'm putting everything under the vice chancellor, just not one, that he doesn't know himself in the economy. He knows what he's doing. He is probably the only one who knows each other; the other does not even know what debt is, but at least he knows what to do with numbers. There needs to be a central cooperation. [[Call the ÖVP:... what you are talking about!]] Get the fuck out of here! Get away with these feisty promises, with thoughtless plans! I just remember one announcement: The entrepreneurs, the tourists are really mad, they have touched themselves on the weekend and asked what about the travel restriction. There the Chancellor announces something in the “Small Newspaper”, Ms. Köstinger can chew what Mr. Sebastian Kurz has to offer, and then it says from Germany: Stop, it's not that, they didn't talk to us! – These are contradictions, and these contradictions cause one: Insurance, but no trust. I wonder, Mr. Vice-Chancellor – I really have to say that! –: How can one go along with this uncertainty? How can you join this test balloon party? From tactical calculation, the ÖVP starts a test balloon with Mr. Fleischmann or anyone else, and you do it! How can it be that banks are still writing yesterday – in what Mrs Schramböck announced last week, I think, together with Mr Blümel: 100 percent acceptance of liability –: We do, but: Personal liability, Declaration of Retirement, and above all sign a change! - How's it going? [[It was in favour of NEOS and SPÖ and FPÖ representatives.]] Entrepreneurs feel crazy. There's no such thing as that! It's your fault, and I think that's because you don't have the experts at the table because there's obviously no general staff at all. There is no expert council that has a dew economically! You have to take the banks into the boat, otherwise you can't. It driving me madly into what I get every day in writing by Epulers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] How can Mr Vice-Chancellor drop individuals like this? They are sour, sore – if they don't go to the ball house square with the locust! It'll be like that soon. How can it be that Mr. Vice-Chancellor, as Minister of Culture of Mr. Blümel and Mr. Kurz, can be presented in this way? Even Mrs. Lunacek is so sorry when she says after six weeks: We are not yet ready to have developed a fund and criteria! - You're being shown! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] There is nothing left in this crisis for education, for culture, for art, and above all for one: a chaotic economic concept as we get up again. [[Call to the ÖVP: Your speech is chaotic!]] That's just sad! I have to say, I also find it sad and cynical when my colleague's head says: Yes, well, you have to make a right request at the hardening fund! – You don’t know anything about the fears! I already imagine a Chamber of Commerce representing the interests of the businessmen and not being the master of this government, for which the name would be the representative of interest.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e11565	Next speaker: Mrs Tanja Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e11589	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewer! Yes, we are currently living in extraordinary and extremely difficult times. Much is uncertain, many questions are open. Even virologists still know far too little about the virus. Experts and scientists are feverish. There may be a vaccine or a medication only in months. However, politics cannot and must not wait so long; Because politicians bear responsibility and have to act – quickly and efficiently, as in the rescue or fire brigade. When it comes to human life, it makes a big difference whether, when, and how First Aid is provided. When it comes to the fate of so many citizens of our country, quick action is simply a duty. Our government has acted quickly, and I thank her for, above all, our Federal Chancellor. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] It was only a few days ago that it was once again shown the relevance of our exemplary action in the fight against the crisis in Austria. Sebastian Kurz's sovereign CNN interview, of which we have already heard today, shows once again the interest and attention with which one follows the measures taken by our Federal Government worldwide. Because Sweden is always used as an example: We have already heard that Sweden has three times more deaths than Austria, although Sweden has more than 51 percent single households. [[Abg. Belakovich: Has more inhabitants too!]] [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: Per capita, Mrs. Colleague! Per head!]] – Please don’t pretend to be Sweden’s top! According to IMF, Sweden accounts for just as little as 7 percent of economic growth. So please stop using Sweden as a top example! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I can tell you so much: Austria is seen as a positive example of the right measures at the right time. Even Chancellor Angela Merkel mentioned that Austria was always a step ahead of Germany. After all, it is important to save, protect, maintain peace, avoid chaotic conditions and slow down the spread of the virus as much as possible – and we have succeeded in doing this with the measures taken. The small number of new infections really gives us that right. I would also like to thank all Austrians who have supported us and take on so much, who wear masks, have stayed at home at Easter and stay at home. The ultimate goal can and must be the health of the Austrians. The same is also true of the function of the State as a whole and of economic development. The wealth of measures we have taken in recent weeks is primarily aimed at avoiding and minimising social and economic damage as much as possible. I would particularly like to mention the instrument of short-time work as an entrepreneur, because it is also a matter of responsibility. The measures have been well adopted and are also successful. We were able to secure over 900 000 jobs through short work. This model for dealing with the current corona crisis is considered a model throughout Europe. I also thank the employees of the AMS for their use. According to current information, of the employees who unfortunately had to be terminated, almost half of them have a re-establishment commitment from the entrepreneurs, so they really work together well. Many of these decisions have not been made easily, but are due to the current crisis and the current situation. In the economy it is as in politics: There are decisions to be made so that everyone can get through the crisis well. I believe that none of the people here can claim that there is a manual for the Corona crisis, which we simply extract and in which we can take a short look at what we should do, so we should work together for Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e11660	Next speaker: Mr Rainer Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e11689	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We are experiencing a dramaticly difficult time with the Corona crisis. We experience human tragedies, we experience economic tragedies. However, I have not felt that it was quite okay now, as Mr Klubobmann of the ÖVP has dramatized this once again. If he speaks of the coffins and graves in America, that is exactly the opposite of what we expect from a government party. We should spread security and not be afraid, but obviously this is a strategy that is applied very massively here. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In dealing with this crisis – and I say that quite openly – a lot has been done right, but mistakes have also happened. The withdrawal of the epidemic law was a major mistake. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of course, the instrument of short-time work is a very important tool for our employees, but we must then talk about the very many unemployed who do not have the opportunity to go into short-time work on a next occasion. We have now reached a stand – 600 000 people – which is unbearable, ladies and gentlemen, and there are measures to be taken. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We will also observe that hundreds of SMEs and thousands of EPCs will not survive this crisis due to the disappearance of the Epidemic Law. They're being driven into ruin, they really don't have a chance at all. And we've always warned about it: We have made applications, but we have created exceptions to make exceptions to companies that employ 20, 25 people. You have removed that from the table, and therefore you also have the responsibility for this disaster which is now in our house, ladies and gentlemen, to take over. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me put two more points, because we are putting forward motions for resolutions on this: In connection with the discussion on state aid for the AUA, there are intensive media reports. Yes, the AUA is a traditional company in Austria that belongs to support – but with very clear conditions, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, jobs must be secured and there must be no deterioration in working conditions. We have already experienced a lot in 2008 when Lufthansa gave the AUA so to speak and took along a little bit more. We only need to ask the ladies and gentlemen of the Tyrolean Airways how they were treated at the time; Collective contracts have been exchanged and devalued. There was a kind of fry-bird-or-death policy, and all those who were excited said: You can leave the company anyway! If money flows when the state takes money into its hands, ladies and gentlemen, then there must also be a participation of the state or its companies at the AUA or at Lufthansa. Unemployment has been mentioned: 600,000 unemployed. We shall today put forward a motion for a resolution calling for unemployment benefit to be increased. We've done this before, it's been wiped away from here. I honestly did not understand the Green Members – this was always on the Green Club agenda before you were in the government, my very valued friends of the Green Group. 55 percent net replacement is simply too little. We are here in the last third of Europe, and everyone should try to get out with an average of 900 euros of stamp money, i.e. unemployment aid. Many of the unemployed are at the end of their power, they are no longer doing so, and that is why I shall put this motion for a resolution. I would just like to add one more point: Folders of my group are looking at –: [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Vogl]] As ÖGB, we've put the Corona Thousands into play. This online petition has already said and written 50,000 signatures. 50,000 people have signed, because it is really too little to clap and say: Mei, this is great, dear friends, like you do in the shops like you do in the production plants! Our heroes want to be able to buy something for the thanks. If the state makes 38 billion euros available, our corona heroes must also benefit from it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I should now like to make the following motions for resolutions: [[Quoted print version removed]] And the second motion for a resolution: Resolution by Mr Rainer Wimmer, Members of Parliament, on the participation of the Republic of Austria in the AUA The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to seek participation by the Republic in the rescue of the AUA in order to ensure jobs and the location of Vienna/Swechat in the medium and long term.” [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[12:51]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e11944	Both motions for resolutions have been properly tabled and are therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Ralph Schallmeiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e11972	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister and Minister of State! Dear spectators at home! These agenda items are not just about the statements made by the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor, but also about some Committee reports from the last meeting of the Health Committee on the agenda, and I would like to take care of them, at least some of them. The fact that we have come so well through this Covid-19 pandemic up to now is that the population has just participated in all these measures, but it is also because our health system is quite robust and has worked accordingly in this phase of pandemic control. So it must also be our primary goal to improve and develop this health system, to find and eliminate weaknesses. Unfortunately, some of these proposals from the last meeting of the Health Committee do not help to achieve this objective, which we hope we will all follow together. On the one hand, there is this request that the Minister of Health be asked to pursue a complete information policy. - Yeah, I think we've talked enough about this today. In fact, the request was already obsolete at the time when it was introduced, because it was done anyway. On the other hand, there is a request for the provision of medicinal products. I find this to be even more exciting, because there have been since 1. In April, a regulation aimed at not exporting medicinal products that are scarce in our country. The application presented by Mr Kaniak and by the FPÖ generally provides, among other things, that this ban on exports should be lifted in order to ensure, at least the applicant's intention, better the supply of medicinal products in the country. I am just asking myself the question of what it is that we should remove an export ban if we want to improve the supply of medicinal products in the country, if it is precisely this export of medicinal products that leads, among other things, to the fact that we have the corresponding shortcomings in the supply there or there. This reminds me a little of “The mission with the mouse”: That sounds funny, too. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] In addition, we should also point out that this Ministry Regulation, which has been adopted since 1. April is valid, yes, not a jux-and-toll action, but the result of a cooperation of all relevant stakeholders, as you say so beautifully in Neudeutsche, or elsewhere: Pharmacovigilance, the Pharmacovigilance Chamber was as involved as the producers, for example. I think that's how this thing is done. That we should discuss the security of supply with medicines in Austria as well as – how to say? – Teaching from the pandemic, that is also clear. I mean, we just recently found out that Mrs. Schramböck or Mrs. Weessler said, okay, we have to get the production, namely the entire production, and not just the research – in the pharmaceutical sector – that understands itself – back to Austria. I think that is the right approach to this issue. Finally, I would like to address a request, also from the FPÖ – I do not know why, but I do have all the FPÖ requests on my table – which is a “100 percent cost compensation against the health care facility and so on. social security by persons who give verbally dangerous threats to health professionals or become physically violent.’ The application is not thought out, it does not work preventively, as it simply does nothing but say, okay, I will punish you when you put up with such actions. However, in the final effect it is not prevented by any effect treatment. It is not ensured in hospitals, in hospitals where such a thing occurs, that people who are partly in an exceptional situation do not behave dangerously or dangerously. It would be better to put on the old principle of pre-thinking instead of crying – that is an old ÖH principle – instead of simply punishing it, because it does not prevent any infection. Yes, for these reasons we will not agree to this request either. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e12033	The next item is Mr Gerhard Kaniak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e12054	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Fear is a bad advice, and a policy of fear is a bad policy. That is exactly what German chancellors proclaim in short with his threat of 100,000 dead, which is what Clubobfrau Maurer proclaims with the fear of the second wave. That's not the kind of policy I like. I advocate that we make a policy based on facts and data. In this connection, we already had eight weeks ago, on 27. February, a motion for a resolution that we want to have complete and transparent information from Parliament and the public, which was also included in the Committee by all three opposition parties. Mr Schalmeiner says that this request was already obsolete at the time. I need to correct him. This request was forward-looking, because two weeks later we met and decided on emergency measures without sufficient data base. Two weeks in which we did not have valid data have passed; what was presented by the government was a convolut of fear. The images and the figures from China were presented, which were shocking and frightening. The first developments in Italy were highly stylized, which were also shocking. However, one has not managed to have valid data for Austria and one does not have the right comparisons, one has no uniform data- In order to analyse this data properly and to derive from it the right measures. What happened after that was not necessarily a illustrious example of transparency. There were then figures, and I would also like to stress positively that Mr Anschober, Federal Minister, has made a very great effort to deliver figures. But if the Federal Ministry of Health delivers different numbers than the institute subordinate to him, the Ages, and the Minister of the Interior, the Ministry of the Interior, in turn, provide different numbers, I wonder: Where is the transparency and comprehensibleness? On what basis are decisions taken? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If the number of tests varies by several thousand tests from one day to another, if the number of the dead is raised once and for a time different, if the criteria for testing vary from one day to the other, if the counted infections are now even assessed or not assessed according to other criteria, then I must say that we have no comparable data base, we are missing a basis for sound political decisions. But there are also areas in which we have quite clear figures. We clearly see the economic consequences of these measures. Even from passive observation, as our vice chancellor Kogler has already said, we note that the rates of infection have been below the recovery rates for almost three weeks. We see that the utilization in our hospital area was up to 20 per cent, meaning that our health system is more than robust for patients affected by the corona crisis. But what measures have been taken? What conclusions have been drawn from it? When was normal operation or normal operation restored for the treatment of the remaining patients? It was remembered for this week, in practice it will probably be carried out next week – and that, although we have known for over two weeks that treatment capacities are not used in our hospitals. Yes, they would have done what you have announced for yourself, what chancellors announced just three weeks ago: Testing, testing, testing! If we were actually doing a widespread cross-section testing every week and if we had a current situation picture of the actual infections in Austria, then we could have opened the hospitals to normal patients two weeks ago, then we would not always have to wait two weeks for the evaluation of the measures and see whether more sick people are attacking or not, but then we would already know from the state of infection whether we will have more infected people or not and would then have two weeks until they get into a condition in which they might need intensive medical care. That means we could act proactively and would not have to react passively. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We remain true to our line: We continue to demand transparency and facts. That is why I would like to make another motion for a resolution which is the basis for the decision-making process for the government and which will also make decisions easier for us in the future: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, my speaking time is over. I could say a lot, a lot, and say a lot of wishes, which I have, in part, sent to the Minister for Health and Health, and ask many other questions. I hope that we will get the transparency and the answers that we call for and that evidence-based and non-fearing decisions will be made in the future. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[13:01]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e12234	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Josef Hechenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e12258	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated members of the Federal Government! Appreciate colleagues and spectators in front of the screens! I am very pleased that, after our quarantine, we Members from Tyrol can be back at the meeting. As a younger generation, I think we have the special responsibility to pay particular attention to the older generations who have built up our Austria, or especially to look at them. We all know: If you're healthy, you have a lot of wishes when you're sick, you only have one. For this reason, I am very grateful to the Austrian Federal Government, with our Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurzan, for the fact that hard but necessary measures have been taken at the right time. These measures have succeeded in curbing the virus and in putting in place measures in parallel to reduce, or minimise, the massive damage to the economy and thus also to humans. And one thing is clear: This corona crisis will require a great deal for the Austrian population, for all people in Austria. That is why we need solidarity and closeness in order to be able to cope with this crisis together. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] As a Tyrolean Member of Parliament, it is really my concern today to say a few sentences on Tyrolean crisis management. We had no experiences, we had no instructions, but fact is: Our head of state at the top has put in place very drastic and proper measures. One thing is clear, ladies and gentlemen, The corona virus did not originate in Tyrol and not in Austria, but to put in place the necessary and right measures, that was our task, and we have started it. [[Cheerfulness with the NEOS.]] One thing is also clear: - - – It is quite clear to me that there are calls now, but that is normal. [[intermediate calls at SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Loacker: If you talk such nonsense!]] It is important, I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we also understand the facts. And the facts are: Tyrol has put in place the strictest measures of all the federal states, and Tyrol has made most tests of all the federal states. [[intermediate calls at SPÖ and NEOS.]] We've done 45 000 tests. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Because you haven't done anything before!]] We have protected all old age homes in particular. And see: From Saturday to Sunday no new case of an infected person in Tyrol, and 142 communities are corona free. The measures put in place in Tyrol have therefore taken the necessary steps at the right time. As has already been said: We are in a very deep crisis. It is also true that it is a great concern for me to thank many professional groups, who have been very much demanded during this time, whether they are the doctors, the caregivers, whether this was the cashier in the food supermarket. I would particularly like to highlight the families. Especially the mothers and fathers, the parents are currently very, very much required. A warm thanks for this great work! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] On the other hand, a warm thanks also to the countless hardworking farming families in Austria, which provide the Austrian population with high-quality, best food daily. Thank you very much for this tireless commitment too! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We're not over the mountain yet, but we're on a good path. – Thank you and stay healthy!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e12347	Next speaker: Mr Gerald Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e12368	Madam President. I believe that the first 2 minutes we can now book for an actual correction. [[Cheerfulness with the NEOS.]] One must have the courage to stand here at the speaker's desk and to say that in Tyrol crisis management was great, although even colleague Hörl had to admit that everything was not quite ideal. Now you have to imagine: It was still February, there was this coronafall at the Hotel Europa in Innsbruck. And bag, all right, finish, you've gotten in! Then, even in February, two fevery passengers were on this train, which was stopped at the Brenner for a whole night because it is dangerous. There you've stepped in, but at Ischgl – ups! – there you were all: Don't hear anything, don't see anything, don't know anything! There was nothing! You've been watching it for days. There you watched the successful export product Coronavirus and still fired it. After you could already have seen how embarrassing the “ZIB 2” interview of Landesrat Tilg was, then, as a Tyrolean, you can get to the speaker’s desk here again and say once again that everything would have gone right, so that’s more than cool! [[It was in favour of NEOS and SPÖ and FPÖ representatives.]] The Turks are knocking themselves on their shoulders, because Austria is so great, that is, so great. I mean, some things have been done right, but not all. From Germany you can travel to Belgium and the Netherlands, free, without control, and to Austria not because we are a risk area from the German point of view. That's how great you did it! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Mr Wöginger, also one of the chickens, the Klubobmann of the Kühne is here at the speaker's desk and says that the Chamber of Labour should give its reserves in the Corona crisis. I mean, yeah, I do. Then you have to finish the sentence and say: There are still a few other chambers that should sit on damn money and also go out with the reserves: the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Agriculture, the Chamber of Doctors. Get out with the money! Where is it?- Oh, my God! [[It was in favour of NEOS and SPÖ and FPÖ representatives.]] But that's where we've got the party kickers. I think you'll get it as an ÖVPler in the meantime. When I was with you, it wasn't like that, but now you get it like that. [[Making a corresponding gesture with your hands]] Then you can no longer look 2 degrees to the right or to the left. - Yeah, good. Then to the Minister of Health and what this Ministry provides. We mentioned it briefly: The procurement has failed, one has prescribed the supermarket chains with a preliminary period of five days that there masks It is necessary to issue it. [[Interference of Federal Minister Anschober.]] - Yes, mouth-nose protection. – There the desperate employees from the hospitals in Linz and Vienna went to the next savings and the next Billa and got a mouth-nose protection there, because the procurement in public procurement did not work at all. And entrepreneurs, Mrs. Schramböck, serious entrepreneurs who are textileists in Austria and have locations in China and Hong Kong, have been called unsanitary by you in the media – not by name, holding standard. Yes, they've been tested and they've been unscrupulous, so we didn't buy anything from them. There are companies that have not even received a recall – not from you, not from you and not from the Red Cross. [[towards Federal Minister Schramböck]] [[towards Federal Minister Anschober]] These are companies that could have obtained masks. And that's where you make yourself and say they're not serious. As regards test capacities, I have already said: Procomcure Biotech is doing such tests. There was never a call from the Ministry of Health, never one from the Red Cross! They won't even be ignored! For the procedure: How do we actually do when testing genes, Mr. Minister? There's a suspicion that people might be ill again. One of them says: No, it probably hasn't been tested clean enough, they hadn't completely recovered, and then the disease stopped getting worse again. We are told: When 14 days are over, you are considered healthy again. It's not going to be another test, because we don't have antibodies tests yet. – The AUVA, where you are a supervisory authority, makes antibody tests. [[towards Federal Minister Anschober]] I ask you: What if there's no supposed to be? How can you, as the supervisory authority, allow the AUVA to carry out tests if the alleged quality is not appropriate? And if they meet the requirements, I ask you: Why don't you use them in your sphere of influence? – That’s where it’s in the back and in the front! There are two more requests which will be voted later. One is about multi-insurance. In 2018, the Federal Chancellor fully promised a journalist in a press conference: They are employed at Pulse 4 and have also written a book – as a self-employed person – and you will only have an insurance in the future. – As we know today, an empty turquoise promise. We have made the request that this be corrected and that the Federal Chancellor can subsequently deliver on his promises. But that's not happening. Town councillor Hebein says it's so crazy that the multiple insured don't get any money out of the hardening fund. – Well, they would have had it in their hands to abolish the multiple insurance, but the Greens are now in the hostagery of the ÖVP. They do not come out of the sleeping part of the night train and agree with all the displeasure that is presented there. Then another note – unfortunately, Mr. Vice-Chancellor is no longer present –: I liked it very much when the sports were released, because now you can go golf again, go on horseback and sail. So that's really close to the people's politics: Golfing, riding and sailing are allowed again. However, this does not explain why the federal gardens have been closed, and it is also not explained why in shops 400 square meters of customer area are the decisive limit for opening when 2 meters of distance have to be kept when 20 square meters per customer are set. Why are 20 square meters? per customer sufficient if the business has 350 square meters of total area, but if the business has 450 square meters of total area, are 20 square meters per customer no longer sufficient? – It will not be constitutional. However, as we know from the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, constitutional law is still wurden, one can then somehow clarify it afterwards. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I have something I have to say – but there it shines happily anyway – namely on the request to the hospitals of the countries and communities. [[with a view of the speaker lamp]] There are 15 pieces of so-called service agencies; they are truly serving, they are publicly funded, but secret. While they get money from the Federal Budget, they get GSBG funds, we don't know how many there are exactly assured how much public money goes into the financial situation. It's all opaque. It is not even asked what they do with the money they get from the Republic. - That's off-line. Last but not least to the risk groups: We now have a definition for risk groups. So you'll either get a letter or you won't get one. If you get a letter, it doesn't mean you're a risk patient. If you don't receive a letter, it doesn't mean you're not a risk patient. If you receive a letter, you can either go to the doctor or not, and if you do not receive a letter, you can also go to the doctor or not. – So we know as much as before, but we needed four weeks for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e12505	I now have a word on business treatment: Mr Klubobmann Jörg Leichtfried. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e12531	We are now in the debate on the statements made by the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor. We have listened to the statements made by both of them, and I believe that good parliamentary relations should be among them, that one should listen to the other, and that the other should listen to one another as well. There is enough to say and there is also enough to listen. I therefore think it really is extremely unreasonable that both the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chairman have now apparently left this meeting in the cold. Ladies and gentlemen, that certainly does not belong to a living parliamentaryism! [[Complaints with SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS.]] Therefore, Madam President, I request that we vote on the creation of both. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e12564	I now obviously have a request in accordance with Article 18 of the Rules of Procedure. I ask if there are further statements on business treatment. – Mr Klubobmann Wöginger, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e12592	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this request has failed because Mr Vice-Chancellor has just entered the hall again. He's back.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e12625	Next speaker on business management: Mrs Belakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e12650	Madam President. I shall then make the request to bring the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany up. I think that it is already an impotence to sit here, play with the phone and then steam off – in the middle of the debate on his own statement, then when the Members replicate his statement. I therefore propose to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e12683	There is now no more word for business treatment. I therefore have to vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the request pursuant to § 18 for the resumption of the Federal Chancellor at the meeting of the National Council. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this in order to have a corresponding sign. – I counted 43 votes. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, who is against it? Who is voting against Mr Bundeskanzler's recovery? [[During the voting process, Members enter the hall or enter the gallery.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schellhorn: Must we count again!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you see the situation on the gallery, then you would understand it even more, I see myself out of the way, if the number of participants in the voting process obviously changes so rapidly. There is a request that the current debate on the statements by the Federal Chancellor and Mr Vice-Chancellor of the Federal Chancellor should also be here. A vote on this — I have pointed out — must be held immediately after a debate on the Rules of Procedure, which has also been held. It is not clear to me now how the majority relationships are, and I therefore ask two authors to me. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I will put this situation on the agenda at the next Presidential Conference because we cannot properly carry out voting. I shall start again with the vote. Whoever agrees to the request that the Federal Chancellor be present in the Federal Chancellor's declaration, I ask for a sign – and the others now sit. [[The authors Cornelia Ecker and Steinacker, together with President Bures, make the poll.]] [[Abg. Prince: What about the photographer at the gallery? Is he counting?]] The scribes have said that they can now count out like this. We do it the way we always do it in the voting process: Those Members who are for the recovery of the Federal Chancellor, please stop, those Members who are not for it, sit down – and we count. [[The writers Cornelia Ecker and Steinacker, together with President Bures, continue to count votes.]] Thank you very much for the vote. – Thank you to the authors for supporting this difficult narrative. I declare that the question of Mr Bundeskanzler's recovery on the debate on his statement was rejected by 69 votes; It was 56. I will put the process and the course of this vote on the agenda of the next presidential conference. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as Neos representatives.]] There is now a word for business treatment. – Please, Mr Klubobmann Jörg Leichtfried.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e12775	Madam President. I would also suggest that this inconspicuous situation, which is that, after the beginning of votes, a lot of colleagues will suddenly be in the Chamber, will be discussed once in the House of Presidents. [[Abg. Wöginger: Also at the opposition!]] I think that's very good. The Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, I note that the Federal Chancellor believes that he must not be present in the debate on the Federal Chancellor's statement in the National Council. I also note that the green-black majority is of the same opinion that the Federal Chancellor must not be present in the National Council's plenary when discussing his statement. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e12820	I have a further word on business treatment. – Mr Klubobmann Wöginger, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e12844	I've had phone contact now. It is true that the Federal Chancellor is in an urgent telephone conference with the Croatian Prime Minister. This is about the border regime and the 24-hour care forces. [[Abg. Belakovich: And he has to do that right now!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] This conversation is taking place now. That is why Mr Bundeskanzler is prevented because he is taking part in this very, very important telephone conference. Madam President, as far as the vote is concerned, I would like to ask that we open the roof foyer for Members who want to follow the debate there: If I remember correctly, we have discussed this in such a way that, in a vote, the honourable Member will be given time so that they can come from the roof foyer to the meeting room in good time. I'm asking you to stop that.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e12887	Mrs Maurer is also speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e12911	I would like to point out once again: We have already discussed this situation in a number of variants in the Presidency, namely that in such a situation in which we have opened up extra spaces in this House due to the corona situation, in order to give Members the opportunity not to have to sit close together, that is allowed. We have deliberately put the voting block at the end of the agenda so that this procedure is possible. This is consensus and an agreement of the Presidents, and I should also like to point out that. We would actually have planned a interruption until everyone came back. I would also like to point out at this point that Members of all the political groups have now arrived in this area at a later date. We are still sitting here in an exceptional situation in which we are scattered, scattered, and I would like to appeal once again to all that we actually respect the rules that we have made and agreed in the Presidential for this particular situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e12942	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e12966	In a short time to the clubman of the ÖVP: The Grästerl can tell someone else, for that the German Chancellor's statement was already known at a time when all the plans for other things were made are probably obvious and corresponds to the day of the government; and the day of the government also corresponds to the fact that all dispositions are to be met in such a way that the government's activity has to be directed after the parliamentary operation. I also interpret the words of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany in such a way that he was pleased today that there was finally parliamentary normality again. He said it loud enough – now we know what to like about it. He doesn't really care about it. This is an act of contempt for the House. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Madam President, there is something else we should discuss, and this also belongs to the agenda: This is torpedoing, I say now, of parliamentary transfers in the ORF through simultaneous government press conferences, as we have experienced today in the early days. Today, in the early morning, we have been told that today's transfer to ORF III is simply interrupted, because two ministers consider it necessary to hold their press conferences at exactly the same time, in the course of the morning, when it comes to the most important issues. The whole objective is no different from the corresponding speeches on the part of the opposition, which one may not like to hear, to remove as much from the public as possible. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] We should also discuss this in the Presidential Assembly, because this too is not a good way of co-operation, which is constantly being tightened in the speeches.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e13019	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Apart from the fact that there is obviously agreement from all the political groups in the House that at the next presidential conference we are talking about how we can ensure in the voting procedures that the outcome of the vote will be in line with and reflected by the will of the National Council, I would just like to point out that, first of all, I have had a business debate in which not all the political groups participated. I did not start the voting process until after there was no more word for business, and – I would like to point out that this is also true – I did not, in the course of this vote, prevent any Members and no Members from making use of his/her constitutional opportunity to participate in votes. – That was also the reason why I interrupted the vote, did not announce a result of the vote, and asked the two authors to support me in doing so, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Finally, I should also like to say that I have briefly taken a look at the Presidential Conference Protocols in preparation for today's sitting. I should like to point out that no agreement was reached in this presidential conference that in the case of business debates and requests for these votes should be held only at the end of the agenda, but that this was only agreed in the context of agenda items. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we have finally reached an agreement, namely that there may be an interruption of business debate, in relation to the meeting in which only half of the Members were allowed to take part at the time. This was also limited to this, as is the result of the protocols. This case shows, however, that we are dealing with this debate, and how we are going to ensure in the future that voting is really the way it is the will of the National Council, and that its outcome reflects this will to be put on the agenda in the presidential conference. [[In the direction of the hand-lifting Abg. Wooker:]] If we start a new business debate, Mr Klubobmann, I would like to tell you that there are other statements of speech to me, because we have reached the agreement that there will be a speech message per group. I have said that we are continuing the debate now, but I ask: Is a business debate still desirable? [[Abg. Wöger: Yes!]] Mr Klubobmann, excuse me, and then Mr Klubobmann Leichtfried. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] [[Abg. Eßl: But this is the third time!]] Please, Mr. Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e13088	Madam President, it is now also important for me to hold things because it is also important to you that this has been said by your side. First of all: You could not keep Members away from the voting procedure, so it is not necessary to mention it separately. Members can enter the hall whenever and how they want, and that at any time! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] That's the first thing I want to hold. Secondly, This vote has not been initiated. Thirdly, It is your Presidency's responsibility. We note that we are not waiting for all the Members who are in the roof foyer to really have taken the opportunity to vote here in the Chamber. This is something I would like to maintain here, because I think it is necessary that this is also mentioned and said. Finally, I would like to point out once again that this is a debate on a declaration by the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] I have explained that the Federal Chancellor is in a very important telephone conference for Austria and for the citizens. There are also two other members of the government in the government of Mr Vice-Chancellor. Now, from my point of view, we can continue in the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e13141	Mr Klubobmann Leichtfried, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e13165	I would also like to hold on to one thing, because it seems to have been questioned: The President said nothing but that she had done exactly what you wanted, namely to allow each Member and every Member to take part in the vote. [[Abg. Eßl: But she didn't do that!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I think that is a matter of course, ladies and gentlemen. We also note that a Parliamentary meeting, which has been scheduled for a long time, whose subject has been fixed for a long time, is not enough for the Federal Chancellor to be present. We also note that this is meat for both the Greens and the ÖVP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e13206	Mrs. Club Chairman Meinl-Reisinger, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e13235	In the previous discussion, we did not speak, even though we believe that it is of course not entirely essential that the Federal Chancellor is also present in the debate on the declaration by Mr Bundeskanzler. I believe – and I would also like to discuss this at the next Presidential Conference – that it is slowly about a tension relationship between government and Parliament, which is noticeable. Especially in such a sensitive phase, in which a great deal of power lies with the government, I believe it is not only opportun and, by the way, also provided for constitutionally so that the Federal Chancellor is available to Parliament in such situations and thus the respect of the House is maintained. I can therefore only support this, and next time I would also like the chancellor to be here again during the whole debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e13264	Is there a word for business treatment now? - That's not the case. Then we will continue on the agenda. Mr Markus Koza has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e13292	Thank you, Madam President. Minister and Minister of State! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners at home in front of the screens! The difference between Sweden and Austria was raised once again, in the sense of how the two countries are going on in the corona crisis and how successful the one or the other country is. I do not trust in a final assessment, but there may not be uninteresting forecasts from an economic and social perspective. There is, among other things, a forecast of the International Monetary Fund, as Sweden and Austria are likely to develop in the crisis or from the crisis. I find it very interesting how the lockdown also has an economic impact – as we all know, the ordered lockdown, which happened, did not happen to this extent in Sweden, but it has nevertheless been very strongly accepted by the population – because, interestingly, the differences are not so blatant! [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Yes, because... at all there is not...!]] On the one hand, in Austria, GDP is likely to break down by 7 per cent, on the other – listen, Mrs. Meinl-Reisinger, it is very interesting! – Sweden’s growth fell by 6.8% at the same time. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Talks with each other...!]] Unemployment will increase in Austria from 4.5 percent – international calculation – to 5.5 percent in the year of crisis and, according to forecast, will fall again to 5 percent in the next year. In Sweden, on the other hand, it will rise from 6.8 to 10.1 percent and will fall to 8.9 percent in the following year, so it threatens to remain at a relatively high level. We'll see how it actually works out, they're forecasts. I think all the countries of Europe, the European Union as a whole and all the countries of the world are keenly interested in getting out of the crisis as quickly and as well as well as overcoming the economic and social difficulties. But now, on the subject on which I really wanted to speak - I don't have much time to speak - Mr Loacker's request, which we discussed at the last meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs, is to do away with multiple insurance. It is an application that sounds relatively plausible in itself and actually affects relatively many people. There are about 300 000 contributors more than a total of compulsory insured persons, which means that there are already a very nice number of people who are insured twice or even several times with different health insurance companies. – Yes, there should already be an intelligent solution in this regard. The solutions also look different. The solution we preferred was in principle always the one that there should be a medical case with the same benefits and the same contributions. This would be the most useful solution in the long term, because the question of multiple insurance simply does not ask itself at all. Another possibility, for example, would be to set up competence centres for health insurance companies, which collect the contributions and then distribute them to the respective insurance companies. At least the insured person would have only one contact person. Another option would be to propose to Mr Loacker that the insured person, who is double or multiplely insured, should choose the insurance provider where he or she would like to pay his or her contributions. The problem of this NEOS application, however, is that it is in fact a matter of eliminating the principle of compulsory solidarity, based on our health insurance and our social security policies, and actually replacing them with the obligation of insurance. While one is: Hurra, at last more competition!, we may call, we know that this insurance obligation, unlike solidarity insurance, undermines the solidargency in the health insurance companies, which is so important, – cash which are actually financed equally by all, regardless of their income; cash benefits which, regardless of their income, provide the same benefits to all; Payrolls which attempt to make a risk compensation between the poor and the rich within the insurance community, between people at higher health risk and people at lower health risk, and thus provide the best possible services for all. What we definitely don't want are some services for some people. – No, we want good performance for everyone as much as possible and there is only that in the solidar system. Only compulsory insurance, as we know it, guarantees this form of solidarity insurance. That is why we will not agree with Mr Loacker's request by the NEOS either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e13341	Mrs Sonja Hammerschmid is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e13363	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers in front of the screens! We are now in the sixth week, in which schools in Austria no longer take place. After enormous pressure from the opposition, from the national leaders and from many, many school partners in this country, there was finally yesterday a announcement from our Federal Chancellor on the subject of schools and kindergartens: There's a concrete plan! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tashner.]] At the request of journalists, what this would look like, it would be: The schools are to be established from 15th century onwards. Open in step by step. Unfortunately, I have to disappoint you, a date is far from a concrete plan. 1.1 million students, students, parents and teachers still do not know how to do the next few weeks. The big questions are: Which children are allowed to attend school first, which types of schools? What do the classes look like? Is shared or taught in groups? Is regionally differentiated? Is this school autonomous to decide? Who's going to decide? Who is the exception? Who belongs to the children themselves, but also to the pedagogists and to the families? How should the day-to-day work, according to what rules of play, according to what hygiene regulations? Should schools be taught at the same time as distance learning? Which subjects should be taught? How much material is to be mediated? – There are many other questions. At the last meeting here at the Hoge Haus Federal Minister Fässmann, we gave a high degree of confidence in order to be able to respond quickly to these many questions. It has received a great regulatory power and has therefore also been given a great responsibility to develop fast-acting and evidence-based solutions for Austria's schools. What do we have now? – A date that lies in the future for four weeks, and no explanations. The possibilities are obvious, and we have also received a lot of options from science. A level plan would be appropriate: to bring the youngsters first into schools, especially to bring the final classes first into schools and then gradually to let the others follow; to place the concentration on the main subjects in order to enable teaching in small groups in a kind of shift company. There are many models. We know – that's quite clear – that no model will really be perfect and this kind of teaching must not become the normal state either. We are in an exceptional situation, but fact is, we need a plan and we have to get into it. [[Abg. Tashner: He's coming!]] We must finally give the parents, the pupils and educators and also the kindergartens planning security. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The extent of the pressure shows us once again a study that was only published today: According to the new Ifes study, more than 50 percent of parents are really difficult to teach home, 28 percent of children are completely overwhelmed with online tasks, and a quarter of children have no access to a computer or tablet. So let us finally make a plan so that Austria's schools can be gradually locked up again! I should like to make a motion for a resolution, and I would like to thank colleagues from NEOS and the liberals for the good cooperation they have in order to keep an eye on the best of 1.1 million students. It says: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Scherak.]] [[13:47]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e13515	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Josef Smolle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e13540	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The lockdown in our country was a health policy preventive measure, a measure that has affected the whole country and which has never existed to this extent. This preventive measure, this precautionary measure was extremely successful. Now we are at the point where we sometimes come in with particularly successful precautions. Especially when they are so successful, People who say: That wasn't so bad! Was that all necessary? It didn't come like that! It is certainly necessary to make ourselves aware of the situation in which we have stood and in which we stand, and therefore it is justified and also necessary to look beyond the national border fence and see how it has happened to countries that have not responded or have reacted halfheartedly or too late. In the United Kingdom, there are five times as many deaths as we do, in France six times as many, in Italy seven times as many, in Spain eight times as many, in Belgium nine times as many and in the often quoted Sweden three times as many as with us, with Sweden slowly withdrawing and – that is not known to many – with its health data at the moment worse than the USA. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] These countries are really not a model. The measures put in place in Austria, the clear decisions in – as is said in the management jargon – an environment of uncertainty were correct, they were necessary and they were successful. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Fortunately, we are now in a phase of gradual relaxation. Where do we have to go? – We need to get into the situation where the ominous value R is below one. What does that mean? – R, the effective reproduction number, the number indicating how many people infected an infected person on average must be below one. What if she's above one, for example, if she's two, and you've got a new infection stove somewhere with 100 infected? – Then you will soon have 200, 400, 800, 1 600 and so on infected and you have the danger of a new wave. If the value is below one, for example 0.5, and there is another such an infection heather with 100 people, then it will soon be only more than 50, 25, 12 infected people – the glut nest will be lost and will not cause any more surface fire. That is why these careless, cautious, gradual easing measures aim precisely to ensure that we come to a reality of life, to a daily life in which the economy flourishes again, in which we will have certain limitations in the interests of health, but for all of us in this country, there is a good basis for living again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] After thanking the Federal Government, I would like to thank the people: They've often been said that you're working so disciplined. We're a enlightened society. All of you, ladies and gentlemen, have acted with insight, with understanding, with a sense of responsibility and consideration, and that is why we are now where we are. At the beginning of the crisis, a high-ranking Red Cross representative said: They all have the chance to become life rescuers. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have saved lives. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e13609	The next speaker is Mrs Prince. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e13630	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Representative of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! In the wake of a crisis, there are still and secret facts to be created, and in very other areas that have nothing to do with the current health issue, dangerous choices can be made for many years. The crisis is being instrumentalized to deal with very different projects that might be has been in the drawer for years now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker.]] I would therefore like to make a request at the outset: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It may be used to: First, there are no changes towards Eurobonds, no matter what name they appear here – emergency funds or coronabonds. The corona crisis must not result in States that have been in the mismanagement for years, such as those with a lack of budgetary discipline or simply with an economic system which is particularly severe with the euro, now paying off their debts, which have been accumulated for many years, on behalf of Corona, among other things to Austrian taxpayers. We must not forget that this is about a total liability, which would tear us all into the depths, it is about a scale that the euro no longer creates. It is already Italy, Spain and France, and we would be torn to the depths. Apart from that, the EU Treaty still provides that it is prohibited for the EU, but also for Member States, to be liable for the liabilities of other countries. This regulation had a good reason at the time, and we should maintain it – and especially in such a crisis. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Cash: In the springwaters of the Corona crisis, we are now used to paying cashless, as it were, gently. The cash is especially pleased with the citizens of Austria, but also in Germany a very high popularity and popularity, and this has a good and very reasonable reason, because if you see who is calling for the abolition of cash, who is behind it – Brussels is in favour of it, the central banks, all banks – then you have to become a bit suspicious. If all the money is only available in a digital form on the accounts, then of course they are totally disclosed and we are completely glass in a financial sense. Every purchase, any financial transaction is documented and comprehensible, state and economy receive many interesting personal data. This is about the gain of power for the state and for the banks and the loss of freedom for citizens. Of course, in economically difficult times, the state is interested in repressing the cash as much as possible, for it is possible to do so. Then it is easier to access pure digital money and introduce taxes or taxes. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] The introduction of monitoring apps to make us tasty now to track contacts with infected people is also about more control and less freedom for citizens. Fear and panic continue to be maintained through a permanent sounding of the citizens, there is an advertising campaign of the Federal Government that everyone should download this app. Healthy scepticism is appropriate in this regard! I tell everyone who makes this voluntary: Of course, it's all right, but you should see who's behind it, who financed it, and if it's not about self-interest. This is about a lot of sensitive personal data: health data, motion data, you can understand the consumer behaviour. Who tells us that these are not then stored that they are not evaluated that they are not linked? This is a very delicate matter, a deep intervention into fundamental rights, and there are reliefs: Keep your distance, wash your hands, and notice who you had closer contact with. Then you can remember and understand this in the event of an infection. Finally, I would just like to focus more briefly on the accusations concerning increasingly authoritarian trains that are being charged to the Federal Government. - Yes, sir! There's a very wounded point: One of the first victims, when pure democracy is lost, is always freedom of expression, and I ask myself the following questions and have been waiting for a long time for a statement from the Federal Government on this: Why is there a digital crisis staff in the Federal Chancellery, which is not only informed or responsible for communication – this is, of course, acceptable – but also seeks, on its own initiative, alleged fakeews around the clock, makes corrections, perhaps also provides for deletions in the social media and corrects opinions there? The Federal Government had to act in this crisis, opting for a strategy – of course, it was well founded! Why can't she live with other opinions, with a discussion that must always be maintained in times of crisis? One remembers that, in such a crisis, the Federal Government is also changing its opinion! What, then, is the truth, and why is it that the opinions of scientists and doctors who differ from the line of government are being tolerated? That must be a constant discussion! Why, please, does the University of Vienna feel compelled to dissociate itself publicly from statements by a board of directors, who expressed a somewhat critical opinion in a scientific sense and did not really criticise the actions of the Federal Government? Is that the freedom of science? Representatives of the University Vienna now the government line? Is there pressure? Why do newspapers distance themselves from interviews that they have brought? Why are large-scale social media videos deleted? I'm wondering why this is happening. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The Federal Government has not taken the truth – you admit it yourself. Why can't you live with a general discourse? – This is very bad and should not be the new normality. Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[13:59]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e13848	The application is sufficiently supported and properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Bettina Zopf. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e13875	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Advisor to today's National Council! We all made a lotto-sechser here, when we came to the world in Austria: We are allowed to live here, in a social state with an extremely good health system and compulsory insurance, which protects us all and ensures us all a health care. I am proud that we have such a federal government that is a model for Europe as a whole in dealing with the crisis. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] – Thank you for your efficient and quick action – only that is why we can meet today and have so few dead to complain about! ==References== December 2019 I was at a lecture on bacterial infectious diseases at the International Academy in Traunkirchen. Professor Graninger gave this talk. Professor Graninger is Austrian Infectiologist, Head of the Clinical Department for Infections and Tropical Medicine at the AKH in Vienna. He gives his lectures with brain, joke and heart – and black humour. In his lecture he pointed out that globalisation is a good breeding ground for the spread of infectious diseases. Zika, Sars and the pig flu will not be the last diseases that concern us, has Professor Graninger in his Lecture emphasized several times. Unfortunately, he was right. – I cannot tell you how often I have thought of this talk in the last few weeks. In my home town, there has been zero Corona Falls for a long time, now we have a case. This shows us that the crisis is not yet over. Again and again, I note that the population is very disciplined, and I would like to thank everyone for this very much. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Let me give you an example: At the beginning of this crisis, there was a discussion between my 17-year-old daughter and her grandparents. My daughter said: You stay at home, I'll take your purchases home! – I knew that our young people, too, know very well what we are dealing with and who is particularly at risk. Solidarity in the population is great, and we are all aware that the crisis will be a long way off in the near future. Nevertheless: Where the shadow is, light where light is is is also shadow. Are we looking for the opportunities that the crisis offers us? If we strengthen the location of Austria, we live more regionality, we buy domestic products that our farmers produce, we buy in Austrian trade, we produce all vital products again! Austria is a country that can provide itself – we can and must work on it, that has shown us this crisis.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e13935	Mr Helmut Brandstätter has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e13960	Mr President. Dear Federal Chancellor! Estimated Federal Government! I am pleased that you have come back, Mr. Federal Chancellor, because this is how I can tell you about an Ö1 interview. [[Federal Chancellor Kurz does not look towards the speaker.]] – Mr Bundeskanzler, I wanted to tell you about an Ö1 interview – but it doesn’t have to be either. [[Federal Chancellor Kurz is still not looking towards the speaker]] [[Cheerfulness with NEOS, SPÖ and FPÖ]] [[Federal Chancellor Kurz: I can also hear from the side!]] [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: He listens to you anyway!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] So for those who are interested: There was an Ö1 interview with Mr Norbert Zimmermann, an excellent Austrian entrepreneur. He was in the "Mitagsjournal" yesterday and said that of course he found many measures right, others not, and also that the Federal Government needs to listen more. – If this says a well-known entrepreneur who has done a lot in his life, I think you should take it seriously. That’s why I didn’t bring the book I once wrote, “Hör. Me. Zu.” – is also a well-known book – but I have another successful book with “Factfulness”, Hans Rosling – the vice chancellor knows that – I can only recommend it. [[keeping a book in height]] Why did I bring this? First of all, because it contains a lot of interesting data on the development of the Earth in the course of globalisation. Above all, however, there is also the fact that we cannot properly classify ordinary people with our brain, which is very strongly emotional. That means we have to deal very closely with data so that we can understand it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker.]] The allegation is that this did not happen, and this accusation is not from me, but from someone who knows himself much better, Professor Sprenger, who, I think, was a consultant for a while and who said today in an ORF interview: “From other countries, information from each intensive care unit is also available at the push of a button for Austrian researchers, says Sprenger. In Austria, however, there is no accessible data, even for the most renowned research institutions. Everything was closed – and it had not been explained on the basis of which data and studies decisions had been made, such as the long maintenance of school closures and the introduction of the mask obligation.” This says one of the country's leading scientists: that there is no sufficient data and that they do not get the research institutes either. I ask Mr Sprenger and Mr Zimmermann to listen and think about it. I would now like to come to the subject of Europe. I find it disappointing that you did not say a sentence on the summit tomorrow, because that will be very important. In the new edition of the “Mirror”, your party leader, if I may say so, says the head of the European People’s Party, Donald Tusk: This may be the last warning for Europe if we are not going to deal with this crisis together. Don't say again: We're the best, we're great anyway, because we can't be that great if we don't understand as an export nation that all of Europe needs to recover. This will only go together, partly with new measures – there are also very interesting proposals up to George Soros, who has proposed a form of eternal bonds. We need to talk about it. I have not yet understood how the Federal Government's attitude is. [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: Did you see the “Report” yesterday, with colleague Edtstadler?]] – I hear from the Lord Vice-Chancellors very much of solidarity, by Mrs I didn't hear about solidarity yesterday, Edtstadler said again: [[Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: Listen! Listen!]] No, we don't want that, and we don't want it! Mr Vice-Chancellor said it completely differently. I'd be interested in how it really is. [[Bundeskanzler Kurz: Listen to me more!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This brings me to the next point I think is important – and that is very serious: Now it's about the Constitution. [[Bundeskanzler Kurz: Listen to me more!]] – Now we are dealing with the Constitution and this is a very serious issue. I'd like to tell you something: The Constitutional Court is not a vacuum cleaner that absorbs the chips that have fallen if a law or even the Constitution has been applied. The Constitutional Court is not a vacuum cleaner, nor is it a waste disposal facility to which laws are sent and says: Well, they're not holding! At the time of the turquoise-blue government, at least three laws have been passed, which the Constitutional Court has at least partially repealed. From this you could have learned that the constitution is a little more cautious, decent, because the destruction of even one part of it, even the Flapsig-about-Red, has damaged a piece of democracy in this country, and I want to warn about that. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] This brings me to the next point concerning democracy: Democracy, of course, also consists of the controllers – on the one hand, these are the opposition, but on the other hand, they are also the media. If we now live in a country where there is a Quasizensurinsurance Authority with 59 employees in the Chancellor's Office who do nothing else – some have told me – as to watch where something is written against the ÖVP and immediately call in the editorial staff when calling, using money pressure et cetera, our democracy is a bit threatened. And I'll tell you: Give press freedom! I am not saying that to the king of Spain – you have no thanks to God – but I am telling someone who treats our media as if they were part of the government. – They are not, and this is not the ORF either; you should know that. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] I come back to the topic of education and science and submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] [[14:09]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e14192	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and under negotiation. Ms Mag.a Sibylle Hamanngelanget to speak now. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e14219	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard very often today very strongly how important the schools and kindergartens are for the functioning of our society, how important it is that they are open, how important it is that there is a plan for the resurgence of education. Yes, I, too, actually know a lot of reports from parents who have been swept away by schools. These are schools that have not heard or perhaps not taken seriously the task they have received from our Minister of Education. He has said quite clearly that our educational institutions are open to the children of all those families who need care, and also that they have to take special care of those children who do not have at home the resources they need for learning. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is also in our sense that normality comes back, that we come out of our private space as soon as possible, that we return to the public, to the social space. It is especially important for the children that they return to school where they have their usual environment, their teachers and friends. Of course, we too – as most likely all here in the room – want a level plan, a careful, controlled, reasonable level plan to open our schools. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e14264	Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to interrupt you. The request is not present; that is, we have the possibility that perhaps another speaker or another speaker will then make this request for you. I'd suggest that. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and the representatives of the ÖVP on the way out of the speaker's seat. Hamann.]] Mr Kucher. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e14301	Mr President. Estimated government members! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I do not know how you all have done; the debate has been much more emotional today than it has been in the last few weeks. We are in the middle of a great crisis and, of course, we all hear – You get it every day – numbers that are so inconceivable that you can hardly put them in words: There are almost a million people in short-time work. There are 600,000 people who are unemployed. When you try to understand these numbers, as inconceivable as they are, and to grasp them in words, you can see: It's always about individual fates, it's about people. This is about the single mother, who has now become unemployed, sitting at home, perhaps trying to do the homework with the children, who is not doing well himself, who is not optimistic and does not know how it will continue, but still tries to convey optimism to their children. It is, I believe, our common task, to try, across all parties, to carry these fates, which we are talking about here, these fates of people who call on us who write to us, to really come here to Parliament. It is also our job to make some very critical comments. I think the Federal Chancellor is probably more relaxed. – Sebastian, you’ll probably also be convinced that August Wögingerdir can explain much, much better how super you are. [[In the direction of Federal Chancellor Kurz:]] – This is not the task of the opposition. [[Interference of German chancellors Kurz.]] This is the division of tasks that we have. It is about bringing ideas into Parliament and also criticizing us. Just saying how great everyone is is not the task of an opposition party – even in a crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There are things that work well in Austria, which we have to keep up with, so to speak; and then there are things that do not work – for me personally belongs to the area of nursing homes. You have to take a personal look at it when you see that there are older people who want to see their relatives again. In fact, one would have to create an Austrian-wide solution with one another, so that not every nursing home in Austria will set up its own expert working group or will employ epidemiologists. One should try to think together about how we can bring about the protection of the elderly. These are things we need to make central! – This is a point we are addressing. Of course, what we always want as SPÖ is to do not only something for the big corporations, but also for the small ones, for the individual employees. We want no one to stay behind that people who are now unemployed, says: We won't let you down! – The costs remain, so we want unemployment benefit to be increased. I think it is important to address all these things in the crisis. Each of us has this task of being the voice of all those people who are not well. Above all, we should all learn something from it and not forget the people who accompanied us through this crisis and who were there for us every day. Pamela Rendi-Wagner has already mentioned it today: What must not be, is that now the first ideas go to raise consumer taxes are in the room. All the people that we have all now applauded have said thank you – the seller, the people in hospitals, the doctors, the bus driver – should then suddenly pay more taxes every day when they buy milk, semi-trailers, bread, butter?- Oh, my God! – These are things that cannot be! This is the contribution we are making: We want a fair distribution of money and a fair participation of all in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In conclusion, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Unfortunately, I had to read this in this form. It is about a fair contribution, especially of people with millions of assets, of large online companies that are now even making business. While the small businesses, for example those in Klagenfurt, had to lock up, Amazon has made millions and billions of profits. This cannot be done, they must make a fair contribution. We are fighting for this as SPÖ, for example. I'm asking for support! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[14:18]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e14490	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and under negotiation. It is now possible to speak. Hannes Amesbauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e14514	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by submitting a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we are approaching the end of this very interesting and far-reaching debate. In conclusion, I would like to say that I am on my side and also on the part of my group: It has never claimed to anyone that all the measures taken by the Federal Government are wrong, and know that They also; You mentioned this several times. We have also contributed to the first Covid-19 packages in Parliament, although our amendments have not even been addressed to our proposals – and this concerns the whole opposition – but we have, of course, been involved in this, in view of the time pressure and the emergency situation. There are many measures that come from the textbook, how to deal with such epidemics, pandemics, and which also correspond to the common sense of the house. This includes the distance keeping, the hygiene of the hands, and of course also the prevention of large human collections in a narrow space. However, there are also restrictions and measures which I think are very, very much overrun. You must also be critical of the fact that you acted too late at the outset as regards border closures, in particular with Italy, as regards the situation at Schwechat Airport, where chaos-like conditions have prevailed over a long period of time, and of course, with regard to the nonsense in Ischgl, which has been addressed several times and which has caused great problems beyond the borders of Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, what bothers me in this whole debate is that there is a German chancellor who is still here, who is standing everywhere, standing in front of some microphone every day, saying: Our path is alternative, we have everything under control. – This is not the case, because the only thing that you have in mind is really these press conferences and large parts of the media, otherwise the situation will be completely out of your mind. Therefore, only that is why you are making certain easings: because the only numbers that are really important to you in your numerical fetish are your survey data. These are still excellent, you do not want to endanger them and therefore you row back in some areas. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, as a Parliament, we should all call on the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to end his frights with which he has crossed the country for weeks like an apocalyptic rider who warns of the destruction. He spoke of terrible pictures of hundreds of thousands of dead people, of the fact that everyone will soon know someone who died of Corona, on Covid-19. I'm glad I don't even know an infected person until today. I hope that's what's going on for a long time. [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: Deputies Großbauer? You don't know Mary anymore?]] But if this policy continues, every Austrian will soon know someone who has lost his existence and his job due to Sebastian Kurz's irresponsible policy, ladies and gentlemen. That must also be said. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] These permanent stagings, in which messages of mantra are always preached at the same time, in which no explanations and no justifications are given on the individual measures: As a citizen and also as a representative, I would like to know when business is closed. Why, when the food trade works, when we have seen that there has not been a great dramatic number of infections of the workers who have stood at the front from the beginning, an iron trade, a clothing store or a gardening for weeks to stay locked? Why, when it comes to the gradual opening, is this 400-square-metre limit? I would like to see the reason for this 400 square meters and to know why it is not possible to lock up, for example, for a business area of 600 square meters or for a car house with 700 square meters, if, at the same time, the construction of 3 000 square meters of commercial space can be opened. I would like to have explained this because otherwise it appears to be arbitrary. This is true of the companies facing it, and also of workers who are in short-time jobs or who lose their jobs. Clear these and many other things! Stop handling criticism so fluffy! Stop calling experts who are not your opinion, such as the Martin Sprenger, publicly as false experts you are fortunately not listening to! Stop calling people who disagree literally stupid! The worst thing for me was actually when a few days ago you called the legitimate criticism of your frenzy of dealing with our rule of law, with our constitution, with fundamental and freedom rights as “juristic pranks”. Ladies and gentlemen, think back: When Herbert Kickl said the right must follow politics, there was hypocrisy up to the President of the Federal Republic. [[Abg. Hörl: BAT! BAT!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fürlinger.]] But if the Federal Chancellor gives such an imperceptibility of himself, silence reigns in the country. There you can see how far we are now with freedom of expression and with the climate of opinion in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, a final request: Give people a perspective! Tell the farms how it continues! Clarify why many small and medium-sized enterprises, many individual companies have not yet received a single cent from a hardening fund or from Phase 2 or whatever! Clarify this! Make sure these people get the money, it's about existence! And please spray a little more hope and confidence. The people who have been exemplaryly involved in the measures for weeks and are really the heroes of this crisis management deserved this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[14:25]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e14694	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Next speaker is Mag. Christian Ragger. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e14722	Mr President. Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! I may begin with a quote from one of the most famous politicians in the United States, which we have now heard more often: “Whoever gives up freedom to gain security will lose both at the end.” – It’s actually a very well-known quote, which I’ve been reminded of today when the discussion was held. We talked about transparency today, we talked about honesty today, we talked about the political show stage. I just want take out a few points and try not to confront them to the truth but to reality. We are, when you remember, on the 15th. March all of us sitting here closed and saying that we are making a national etiquette and will allow us to help this state to help these citizens to overcome this crisis as soon as possible in connection with this disease. ==References== March we have made decisions to block, block, and also to make money available in a great way. The Minister of Economic Affairs and all the other ministers said: We're spending 2 billion euros. – A few days later, it has become more fragile: We're spending 4 billion euros. – At the end of the day, many aid packages have been chained. The reality and the honest truth was that of the 16th century. March came, and everyone who is a bit entrepreneurship active in this country knows that on 16 March. March, because the 15th was a Sunday, the taxes were also due, the VAT, the income tax, all the remaining taxes, corporate taxes, but also the social security contributions. That was more than 8 billion euros paid on this day by Austrians – that was collected. There have been no obstacles to this, and there has been no time limit, but it has been paid. The government then started at once, this 8 billion euros – since we were here on 15. In March, an epidemic law was suspended and a voluntary hardening fund was made out of a real legal claim. In other words, taxes which the Austrian and the Austrian have produced hard, which they first had to earn in their businesses with their employees, have then been paid out of a voluntary hardening fund, which has made us a biter of this Republic by someone with a legal claim. Do you think that's correct and that that's true? - I think, no. The basis for these payments has been provided by Austrian citizens. If we look at how these payments, all of which have been made, are presented here today, and if we can, as it were, go back to a normality area, as the Federal Chancellor has told us today, then we must know that this is due to the fact that the Austrians have generated money. For us, it is now important to give rise to this normality, and therefore, as Members of this House, we are proposing the following to protect our workers in the future: [[Quoted print version removed]] In conclusion, however, I would like to say how I said it at the outset: Now please let our entrepreneurs work, give us our freedom back and give us our lives back! Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[14:29]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e14912	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and under negotiation. Mag.a Sibylle Hamann. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e14939	So, now I have to do it again, because in the meantime, it is right: I should like to re-read and submit my motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] That's what I'm looking forward to. - Thank you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[14:30]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e15052	This application is sufficiently supported and properly submitted. He's negotiating. Klubobmann August Wöginger is now speaking. - Here you go, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e15079	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In the short term, because the FPÖ has submitted a request on the resolution of the Chamber of Workers' Reimbursements – I have addressed the issue today –: In principle, the direction is correct. However, there are two working chambers that have already acted, namely those in Tyrol and those in Vorarlberg. They have already made their reserves available to a large extent, partly together with the national governments there. I urge all the other seven Chambers of Workers to take part in the same work and to resolve these reserves for workers in need. I urge you to do this. [[Interlocutors Tomaselli and Schellhorn.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger:... Chamber of Commerce?- Oh, my God!]] Secondly, I would like to say briefly, because the FPÖ is constantly claiming – the Chamber of Commerce has done a lot, Mr Loacker – that there are consequences of the Corona crisis because these measures have been put in place – it is really important to me to mention this now: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Reisinger]] ==References== There was a press conference on March by Klubobmann Kickl and Mrs. Belakovich, where the "Lockdown" was called for. The “Lockdown” for Austria was called on to stop salami tactics at last, and the government should act much faster, and it was necessary to “bring pure wine” to the Austrian people and to speak the truth. So what do you want now, ladies and gentlemen? We have put in place these measures, exactly what Kickl said on 13 November. The Commission's proposal is based on a proposal from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament. Now we are going back to them because these measures have made it possible to push down the numbers. That is why we can now re-execute. This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e15132	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the vote to the end of the sitting and continue to complete the agenda. [[14:32:42]] 7. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 265/A(E) by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues on dementia (72d.b.) 8. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the proposal from Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues on comprehensive care reform (73 d.b.) 9. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 373/A(E) by Mr Peter Wurm, Members of Parliament, on stopping the import of nursing workers from Morocco (74 d.b.) 10. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 211/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues in the financial recognition of home care (75 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e15208	We now come to points 7 to 10 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Josef Muchitsch has been mentioned on the floor. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e15238	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! We can now deal with dementia and care on the next four agenda items. We always like to talk about what has already been done. Now there are four points that have not yet been completed. There are two SPÖ motions for resolutions calling for measures to facilitate people with dementia and their families and, on the other hand, for a comprehensive care reform that is urgently needed – two motions for resolutions that today are happy to support the government parties, the representatives of the ÖVP and the Greens. As far as comprehensive care reform is concerned, we are calling for clear rules on the provision of a care guarantee fund, which will finance all care services from one source to another. The second key point in this care reform is the creation of uniform contact points in all regions, in all countries with care services, where care needs are truly professionally supported for the entire duration of the care and care needs. The third essential point of our motion for a resolution concerns a care quality law, which introduces and controls nationally uniform quality standards in the field of care, both stationary and outpatient. In addition, we encourage the Burgenland model to examine and implement, where appropriate, Austrian-wide, caregivers to perform their services in a service relationship. Both people suffering from dementia and people who have to be cared for, and their families deserved not to be left behind in this crisis. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! All those involved in these issues are faced with a very serious challenge and are very much required on a daily basis. We all know that after this health crisis, there will be a social crisis. For this reason, as SPÖ, we have today also made a number of proposals which are allocated to the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, in which we will be discussing these requests for the fight against the social crisis tomorrow. These are applications by which we will not leave behind the weakest ones that will affect this crisis, such as the unemployed, who now have to remain in unemployment for longer because of this crisis. That is where we call for the increase in unemployment benefit from 55 to 70 percent. We also demand in a request that there should not be a slip of unemployment benefit into emergency aid. We call for a bridge fund to be financially supported by people who are not entitled to unemployment benefit; these are minor employees, but they are also people who do not meet the entitlement requirements for unemployment benefit because they have reached less than 52 weeks of insurance time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We want to discuss with a request tomorrow also the creation of a social assistance fund. People who are now slipped into social assistance and who have to stay there longer due to the situation must not be left out financially either. Finally, I would like to mention a request that we call for special motherhood protection for those women who are now pregnant and thus at risk. It is precisely these women and their unborn children that must also be protected in this corona crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The situation of the weakest in our society in this crisis is really very serious. I really appeal to all parties: Let us not leave behind those people who will now be affected by the social crisis, all those people who will be undebtedly unemployed, who will have great problems in overcoming this crisis! Let's not leave these people behind! Mr. Vice-Chancellor, your words were: ‘It costs what it wants.’ [[Vice chancellor Kogler shakes the head and points to the empty seat of Federal Chancellor Kurz.]] Let us do something for those people who will actually slumber into poverty without guilt! Let's fight it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e15321	Mrs Bedrana Ribo has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e15342	Mr President. Estimated government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! These are requests from the last Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. ==References== ==References====External links== But so much has happened today. ==References== ==References====External links== At that time, for example, the FPÖ has been madly excited about the fact that Moroccan nurses have to or should fly to Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] Today, in part, our federal states outnumber who can fly more than 24 hour caregivers because we need them. [[Abg. Worm: Looking forward...!]] One is rightly afraid that without these foreign caregivers, the 24-hour care system will collapse. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Worm.]] [[The speaker is waiting for a new call for call.]] – That was a bit annoying. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] By the way, however, I would like to mention – which is very important to me – that it is precisely these caregivers that they have not been reduced the family allowance for so long ago – and today they are referred to as our heroes. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Silvan.]] But I dare say here that these women would enjoy better working conditions and better pay, because of being a hero, you can't feed children or pay rent! The field of care has been hit hard by the Corona crisis, yes – the political failure of the past that is now coming to the surface, but we are all known for a long time. Our Minister of Health, Rudolf Anschober, said right at the beginning of his term of office that he wanted a fundamental reform of care, and this reform will come. His approach was always to have a wide-ranging discussion with all. All Members of all political groups and, of course, all the other important players have always been – and will continue – invited to participate and bring in ideas as well as proposals. This will also be done with the two SPÖ applications: Of course, we will take your proposals on “Demensity Diseases” and on “Comprehensive Care Reform” into the Care Task Force. We will examine and evaluate these proposals there, and we have also announced this in the Committee. At this point, however, I can also mention that one has actually been on a very good path in the field of care reform, and this path is also being pursued. Certainly, a time after the Corona crisis will come, and for the care reform, but also for the care as a whole, this crisis can be understood as a huge opportunity. Why? – Now, all of a sudden, people who work in the care are appreciated. Now we know what exactly is meant by the lack of skilled workers. Now nurses even receive applause. Of course, this is a very nice gesture, but we all know here that applause alone is not enough, they need more! Yes, it will come a time after the crisis, and yes, one will then deal with the economic packages so that how to boost the economy and how one can, of course, reduce the debt. We must not forget, however, the people who have borne us through the crisis. We must not forget these people, and for me, people who work in care are clearly among our heroes! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This starts with the 24-hour caregivers, who stayed in Austria for weeks, could not see their families and had no rest periods just because they did not want to abandon their clients. It is also the many caregivers in the disabled, in the old-age homes, in the nursing homes, in mobile care. And I do not want to forget a group that is very important to me and which I would like to expressly mention here, and these are the caring relatives. They're often forgotten. There are a million caring relatives in Austria, and they struggle every day with some kind of crisis and now, while Corona, even more. I would like to thank all these people, even though I am aware that a thank you alone is not enough. Today, as we have often heard here in the House, we have heard the sentence that politics is called for. I say quite clearly: Yes, politics is also required in care! But I am positive and I also tell you why: because we have a health minister called Rudolf Anschhober, and I know that the topic of care is important to him! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would now like to take the opportunity to express my thanks to all Austrians and, of course, to all the people who live here in Austria – and I would like to stress this very consciously – thank them; these are still almost two million more people. Thank you all! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I thank you for being for each other, for seeing each other together, for holding on. As a politician, we need to revancate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e15437	Next speaker: Deputies Peter Wurm. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e15461	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Believers at home! This was a very exciting discussion on the subject of Corona today. She was, as expected, very emotional and almost developed into a war of faith. What people, I mean, have seen today: The national epaulment is rather heading towards deep graves, because, of course, the consequences of the crisis for many, many Austrians are now very dramatic. In particular, I am referring to the economic impact: Unemployment, short-term work or bankruptcy of enterprises. I do not want to have a medical discussion now, but I would generally wish that the issue of Corona should be discussed much more with figures, data and facts, objectively. A number not only recently raised is the number of deaths in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] If you look at the statistics of the last ten years – you can easily look at them – you can see that there are between 76 000 and 84 000 deaths each year in Austria. There is therefore a difference of up to 8,000 deaths, which cannot always be explained scientifically. I am excited if perhaps the Minister of Health can explain this today; if he is there once – but only so on the verge. Three accusations I make to this government – in this case, since the Federal Chancellor is no longer there, the Vice-President – three very massive accusations. The first: They have spread the greatest fear of death and panic over weeks – and I say, successful. These are deeply infiltrated into the population. One can discuss this, but what has not been addressed today is that tens of thousands of children in Austria have already internalized this fear of death. I have to say that you carry this, which shakes me, because it will leave the children with lasting damage. The second very massive accusation concerns the abolition of civil and freedom rights. What has happened to nonsense has been mentioned several times today. I would like to give you a brief example that a colleague – he is not a FPÖ voter – has shown: If his neighbor had been picked up by the police at the end of March, no one would probably have wondered and no one would have stepped in. – This is a development that has taken place in Austria, for which you are also responsible. The third very massive accusation concerns the total economic and social collapse of this country with unimagined impact in billions. A short number of them: The costs for Austria per day amount to about 1.5 billion euros, and I am already very excited about the government's recipes, who should pay this and how – the donation of a monthly salary of the members of the government will certainly not be enough for this! [[Abg. Michael Hammer:... Donated?- Oh, my God!]] So that's so much on the subject of Corona. The colleague has already mentioned it, there is also a request on the matter of 24 hours of care today, but the problem of harvest workers is also a matter. I say it again: We liberals have been pressing for years to regulate precisely these things in the country itself. We must regulate the field of care ourselves and we must also regulate the subject of harvest in our fields. We have seen through the Corona crisis how quickly both areas are suddenly in front of the collapse. I can only say it again: In the short term, we will probably not be able to resolve both areas of care and crop aid by finding special arrangements for caregivers from the especially Eastern European EU countries, and in the field of agriculture, the same will probably not help. I also say that because the greens are so evocative: For eight years now, it has been trying to use asylum seekers or asylum seekers in the field. Ask your new government partner in the round! - It doesn't work! These people come in full on the first day, on the second day half and on the third day nobody comes. These are the problems we have in agriculture. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] In care, it will not go without massive increases in minimum salaries. We will need the care teaching and we will also need an increase in the care allowance. So there are very, very many measures, and I am eager to see if something useful is coming from the government as soon as possible. I wish my normal condition back as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e15516	The honourable Member is hereby informed of the matter. Michael Hammer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e15540	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen! The subject of this debate or the agenda item on the care sector is broad. I think we should take advantage of the opportunity – the care now, in the Corona phase, especially in the focus – to thank everyone who cares for us, whether at home, in the old and care homes or in mobile care, especially in these times. On behalf of our group, I would like to express my particular thanks to all those who work here. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Yes, it is a great challenge to ensure sustainable and sustainable care, and I commit colleagues to Worm in such a way that we must make every effort to be able to offer caregivers, nurses and caregivers in Austria. But it is necessary – And this is what you see right now, when I think of the 24-hour care - to take measures for this security in the short term, because this is an incredibly important activity. In today's debate on the Rules of Procedure, it was mentioned that the Federal Chancellor today, in a video phone call, has made an intensive effort to ensure that foreign care workers can also be used – that is, there is also a contribution to ensuring care. There is SPÖ's request, and we agreed on a joint resolution in the Committee because the German Government's aim is to draw up many proposals in the Taskforce care process in a comprehensive discussion process. This was therefore a unanimous decision in this Committee. There are some urgent questions to be solved. The first, of course, is the financing by the federal, state and local authorities. There we have the eternal discussion of who stands for what costs. The government programme clearly states that there should be a first step by means of care insurance, sustainable care financing. The second is, of course, – and the lack of staff and staff in the care sector is virulent – that one puts a corresponding offensive in the training, in the acquisition of personnel. The Federal Government has already taken initial steps regarding the technical school – the training – but also as regards the transition from the education system to care training. Further steps are, of course, necessary. Finally, there is a target control committee in which the supply of services, quality and also the financing issues between the federal, state and local authorities are to be coordinated. The Minister of Social Affairs has also announced a comprehensive dialogue tour to draw up many proposals. I think we will put a comprehensive care package on the table in the next few months, when the time comes, to ensure sustainable care in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e15594	Mrs Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek has now been reported to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e15619	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear spectators at home! I'm talking about dementia. If there were no crisis, the number of people suffering from dementia in Austria would double in the next three decades. We now have about 130 000 people in Austria who are suffering from dementia at different stages, and it could become 260 000 people. But now crisis – corona crisis – and some factors that accelerate dementia diseases are, for example, social isolation in old age, are, for example, the factors of diabetes, heart disease and obesity in children and adolescents. The children now sit at home and can hardly move, and these factors can also make the numbers up fast. That is why I am really surprised that we did not find a majority in the last Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which was adopted by Sabine Oberhauser and Rudolf Hundstorfer in 2015, with the involvement of many experts, namely a dementia strategy for Austria, in the field of health and safety at work. objectives and fields of action that would provide exactly what our request now describes in parts. In the meantime we had two elections, and it can't be that whenever new elections are, a strategy that is extremely important for Austria, because the number of these diseases is so rapid in rising, is not heard. What does it need? What do we want? – Perhaps you, especially from the government parties, can look at the subject once again, because the roll-out of this dementia strategy simply did not take place, and we should do this as soon as possible. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We, ladies and gentlemen, urgently want to double the cost of the budget. There are 25 hours extra for people with disabilities, with special needs in the care allowance. That's a double thing. These include WGs designed and promoted for dementiad people. It needs more day structure for these people. At the end of my 3-minute speaking time, I would like to thank all the members of my family who are caring for dementically ill persons, but also all the caregivers, nurses in the institutions, for my deep respect – my deep respect! - promulgate. Due to the differences in dementia, which one does not always recognize from the beginning, there can be unusually dangerous, challenging situations, and precisely there, I think, it would be high time to ensure the care of these patients and not wait. Now is crisis, now we have to act!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e15670	Mr Fiona Vierde has now been mentioned. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e15691	Mr President. High house! Appreciate members of the government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators at home! Some of these applications are in principle comprehensible, but I have already noted in January that there is a need for a comprehensive care concept. We eagerly expect the concept announced for autumn and consider that people with disabilities and their families also need to be considered. As mentioned above, we have a care concept and offer the opportunity to work with us. But that's not all. I do not know if you remember, but in February of this year, almost exactly two months ago, we stood here and decided unanimously that the situation of people with disabilities needs to be improved. I have to say: I don't know anything about that anymore. In the government's crisis management, there are numerous independent experts, but still no representatives of people with disabilities; one who could say what people with disabilities need in the crisis, what they lack and what their way into so-called new normality looks like. In sunny Times are easy to sit down and say: We improve life for people with disabilities, we want to live inclusion. In times of crisis, however, the government completely fails at this level. Our request for the involvement of a self-representative in this management was also rejected by the government parties! - Very sad. Federal Minister Anschober said at the press conference yesterday that he wanted recommendations to be prepared so that the ban on visits to senior homes could be eased after six weeks. What about the homes for people with disabilities? – These people are not allowed to receive visitors, They don't know why they don't come to visit anyone now, because they're often just not able to explain it to them. We are confronted with desperate people. This is also a terrible situation for family members and friends because they are powerless and cannot support their children. When will the day-to-day locations open again? - They also need a timetable. Work in a workshop is often the only view of a person with disabilities because he is allowed to do something. He defines himself about his work – as we do. Yes, it's certainly not easy to keep a distance, for none of us, it's certainly not funny to wear a mouth protection, and it will certainly be difficult to keep up in the day locations, but it's feasible – in small groups, step by step, staged over the week. Despite numerous associations and associations for people with disabilities, over 1.4 million people in this country still do not have a voice and therefore they are pushed further to the edge or turned under the table. Federal Chancellor, my voice is too weak for so many people. The five Members of Parliament are too few for so many people. Raise yours and finally set a sign for people with disabilities in our country, because inclusion is not charitable, inclusion is not reasonable, inclusion is just democratic! Mr. Federal Chancellor, you are finally working in the sense of democracy!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e15740	Member Alois Kainz has now been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e15764	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! High house! Appreciate spectators at home! The topic of care concerns every individual of us sooner or later, but usually there is little thought about it – until a need is given. The new decade has presented us with a fact that affects us all and that there is still no real answer. The corona pandemic not only brings our health system to the limits, even in the field of care there are bottlenecks, so we urgently need a rethinking. We are de facto in the care emergency. We have the problem that caring relatives quickly fall into the poverty trap. That is why we call for the needy caregivers to receive 50 percent more care money at home from the 3rd level of care. In addition, the supplement for care allowance for dementia is to be increased to 30 hours. Ladies and gentlemen, this would be a massive relief for those in need, their families and for the care staff. On the other hand, we unfortunately also have a massive lack of qualified care staff. This must be eliminated, but please with experts from Austria. A private operator of health and care facilities, the Senecura Group, which plans its own university nursing and training centre in Grafenwörth, wants to bring care staff from Morocco to Austria, which can then take the nostrification examination directly on its own campus as part of a relevant course. In my view, this carers import from Morocco is the wrong way. In the present situation, we must focus on the lack of domestic resources. We should create incentives by means of an entry-level or re-entry bonus. It is only in this way that we can counteract the need for care and at the same time reduce unemployment in Austria by creating new jobs for our Austrians. Ladies and gentlemen, the Master Plan is already on the table, we are putting it into practice together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e15812	The honourable Member is now speaking. Ernst Gödl. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e15837	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Health Minister, also responsible for care! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, there is something to be done for any of these proposals that we are debating together here. Even the somewhat curious request made with the Moroccans contains in the explanatory statement also some right thing. He raises the question of why in Austria some who have worked in care leave the profession. What about the attractiveness of this profession? - That's one. What surprises me with the previous speeches is the fact that no one has mentioned the whole current Court of Auditors report. It was not until February 2020 that a comprehensive Court of Auditors report was sent to Parliament, which also shows some important facets. You can see how wide-ranging the care system is in Austria. We spend around 7.9 billion euros on care in Austria – of course in various areas. In Austria, we do not have quite 500 000 care providers, distributed to the federal states, and of these, about 16 percent are in stationary facilities. These 16 percent mean about 80,000 people. About 6 percent are supported by a 24-hour service. About 77 percent, i.e. the rest, are in domestic care – partly completely informal, as one says, with support from caring relatives, and partly supported by mobile services. For example, this Court of Auditors report also shows serious differences in the federal states. This, of course, is because in many areas there is a competence of the countries and the implementation is also with the municipalities. For example, one can see that in a federal country, in this case Tyrol, 40 per cent less are spent for care than for example in my federal state, Styria. Working out these differences, pouring all these areas into a comprehensive care concept will be our task. That is why it makes no sense, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, if we now decide on individual proposals, to increase something here, to change something there, to increase the amount of care, to do something in the dementia strategy. Yes, all of this has to be found in a comprehensive care concept. If we didn't have the Corona crisis now, we would be in the middle of this discussion process. Federal Minister Anschober presented it at one of the last meetings before the Corona crisis. As a whole government and as government groups, we are in the middle of a process that we have started together and have to end, but not with individual measures, but with a comprehensive approach. In today's speeches on this issue, it has not yet been mentioned that we in Austria have to look very closely at the issue of prevention. In the international comparison, we see that it is not necessarily an award if we can say that in Austria 5.2 percent of the population are entitled to care benefits because these people need care. We need to see that we reduce this percentage as it is in some other countries. Why is it so in some other countries that they need less care? – Because they used to focus on better prevention. This has to be a very large part of the care concept: Prevention as the first measure to be strengthened. Furthermore, the question of how we organize care in all areas, from support at home to the guidelines when someone is allowed to come to a nursing home or has to, how are the staff equipment and the like. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] These parameters, of course, also need to be carefully discussed and decided. At the end, the question is: Who will finance the whole effort? – In this comprehensive process we have to find ourselves. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] That is why we do not currently agree with individual proposals, but work together – you, dear opposition, hopefully together with us in the government groups and in the government – to develop a comprehensive care concept for all nine federal states and for all of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e15904	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the vote to the end of the sitting and continue to complete the agenda. [[15:07:14]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 317/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on social security: Publication of annual reports and presentations (76, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e15940	We're on our way to the 11th. Agenda item. There was also no oral reporting. The honourable Member is now speaking. Gerald Loacker. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e15971	Mr President. High house! This item on the agenda is about our request for social security to be published the annual reports and the plans for delivery. We remember the dispute eight, nine weeks ago, when it was mediated whether the deficit of the health insurance funds of the reform was due, the collapse, or whether the footmarode of Vienna's local health insurance fund was indebted to everything. The Committee then said that it was all meated, because everything is public anyway. And yesterday, I have a parliamentary answer to the questions raised by the Mr Ministers, it says that there is no legal obligation for a publication which primarily serves internal control purposes. So what now? Is this all public, and is it meated or is it not? – So what you've delivered in the answer to the question can't be serious. What you can't do – but you did that in the answer to the question – is to hide behind the pandemic, so to say: It is not necessary to talk about it now, because we are just having a pandemic. The question of whether calculations carried out internally in social security are disclosed or not is not a question of pandemic or not, but rather a question of transparency. The fact that the Greens are now becoming the party of intransparency and the darkening of processes in public areas, I find it rather embarrassing. That is why I am also wondering why you are voting against disclosure of calculations, quarterly reports and presentation plans. But maybe you think a little bit about it, you can't hide under the black coat forever.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e16007	The next speaker is Mr Ing. Markus Vogl. - Please, Mr. Engineer.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e16031	Mr. Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! It's an exciting discussion. Mr. Loacker is riding here again. Of course, I find it exciting that the issue of transparency is addressed here. I think there are some open questions that can now be resolved between the Minister and you. I would, however, like to have this debate on whether there is enough or not transparency to also benefit from calling for something that must be important to us as a Parliament. In addition to that of social security, there is another area that is very, very essential for us, and I can remember that we are getting reports there half a year. - You demand them quarterly. We have participations of the federal government and there are 110 000 people in that country alone. If we discuss the Federal Budget in 14 days, we have now been sent the reports. We all know that we can discuss the actuality of the numbering work, many things have changed through the crisis, others have not changed, remains the same. A report on the Federal staff has been presented to us today, 135,000 people in that country who are engaged in the covenant. We have listed this in great detail, since there is transparency. However, there is no transparency over the 110 000 employees who work in companies that belong to the federal government. I expect – and I think that is also necessary – that we will get the documents in time, as was usual in the past, so that we can get a comprehensive overview of them. This is about the value we have as the High House and also about the quality of the discussion, and I would definitely expect transparency.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e16077	Mr Laurenz Pöttinger has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member. – I am afraid the honourable Member is not in the room or am I mistaken? - Very good, thank you. [[Call the ÖVP: Come on!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e16108	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! At the meeting of the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions of the European Communities, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions of the European Economic and Social Committee of the Regions, the European Economic and Social Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee of the Regions of the European Economic and Social Committee of the Regions, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, the Committee That's what's been going on since 1. January 2020 in § 444 para. 5 ASVG. This legislative text requires the publication of annual reports, the publication of meaningful performance forecasts and compliance with the publicity rules already applicable to social security institutions. Thus, the required transparency is absolutely given. That is why we have rejected the proposal in the Committee and see no further reason to support it. Ladies and gentlemen! Because of the current situation, I would like to thank all Austrians very much for the discipline in recent weeks. Let's continue to help! Let us appreciate the incredibly great initiatives of many organizations and people in this difficult time! I would like to conclude with a request: Please pay particular attention to the local economy in the next few days! This may be included in your purchase decisions. I think the entrepreneurs with their great employees have deserved this. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e16142	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I also put this vote to the end of the meeting and continue to complete the agenda. [[15:14:45]] 12. Point Report of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Industry and Energy on the report on the situation and development of small and medium-sized enterprises in the Austrian economy (‘CMU in focus 2019’), presented by the Federal Minister for Digitalisation and Economic Location (III-102/99 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e16175	We're on the 12th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Peter Haubner is speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e16205	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have the SME report ahead of us, with a focus on family business. Over 90 percent of the companies in Austria are small and medium-sized enterprises and three-quarters of them are family companies. Entrepreneurship always means entrepreneurship, i.e. willingness to risk, taking on responsibility, and this entrepreneurship is being put to a very big test. We would normally stand out here today and comment on this report by saying that our location, our businesses are well on the road – and this is what this report shows. We would normally say to this report: It's a good report. Austria is a good business location, attractive as never before, internationally successful and best networked. Our entrepreneurs have achieved excellent achievements in recent years and we have the highest level of employment. Now comes the cut, my Ladies and gentlemen: For a few weeks now, things have been different. Corona has put all our successes on the head. Our family businesses and also the other farms in Austria are required as never before. We have just tried to do everything in this phase to support our companies. We are trying to take measures to restore our businesses to this successful path that we have managed together in recent years. For this we have chained many package of measures. In view of the fact that one or another has been criticized on the package of measures today, I can only say one thing: Every day, we are trying to step up our efforts in the measures. We have seen it in short-time work, since the many practical experiences of entrepreneurs, tax consultants and so on have been involved in the reflections, and we have created a short-term work model which seeks to be used in Europe by more than 80 000 companies and which secures 900 000 employees in the workplace. Ladies and gentlemen, you see, we are really trying to secure businesses and jobs. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] It is a fate for every single entrepreneurship. I know you can't shave everything over a comb. As banks are constantly criticized: Banks may grant credit only in accordance with the guidelines they themselves are subject to. They themselves are under pressure from the directives made by the EU or by many legislators, including us. That means we have to see that we support it too. We must look at each other individually and see how we can help. We have created many instruments for this, and it does not help us if we are now reckoned that we have not been able to help this or that, but we need to see that we help each and every one. That is why we have created this 38 billion package, namely for merits, for guarantees, for liability, for bridging and for emergency aid. We will strive to accompany everyone. That must be our goal and this must also connect us across party borders, because every company in Austria secures jobs. We have three parameters to help: the protection of health, the safeguarding of jobs and, of course, the safeguarding of our companies in Austria. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e16263	Dr Christoph Matznetter is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e16292	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! There is an SME report that offers a little retrospective of how good it once was in the country. The current state is catastrophic. We have tens of thousands of small and small businesses, individuals who do not know if there will be them in four weeks, who do not know how to pay their bills, and who today have to beg for alms in order to get a corresponding support. Many don't get the alms either. While all the founders of this year as well as all those who may receive a small widow's pension in addition have failed at Phase One, they are now all out of the way that have been newly established in 2019, because they do not yet have a tax ruling which they need for a claim from phase two. Please fix this – immediately! I come to the main problem: More than 100 years ago, when an Emperor Franz Joseph was still in this country and in this building complex, the Epidemic Law in 1913 already provided for compensation for the disease. 1950 – five years after the Second World War, bomb damage everywhere, women of ruins – the legislator has recast the epidemic law. And what did he plan? – For all those affected by disease measures, full compensation for the property losses resulting therefrom. Why was this done in the Imperial era, why was it done in 1950? – Because the closure of a company, because traffic restrictions are not in the interests of the entrepreneur, the entrepreneur, but in the interests of the general public, and therefore also must pay for property damage. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] What does this government of ÖVP and Greens do on the weekend before entry into force? – She tries to withdraw this fundamental claim, which is of course a matter of law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ as well as the Deputies Meinl-Reisinger and Schellhorn.]] That was the Cardinal's mistake. You have turned the small entrepreneurs into bitters. Shame on you for this measure! I have put an application into the network, as perhaps there is a legal opportunity for these small businesses to obtain this compensation on which they have a legal claim. I would be pleased if they could take action against this cumbersome measure, which has been incorporated into the provisions of the COVID-19 Act. We'll fix this, we'll have to fix it. Again: Shame on you, to demolish thousands of our small entrepreneurs to bitters! I don't want to experience anything like that again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e16344	Erwin Angerer is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e16369	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Minister – he's gone already! High house! Estimated Austrians! I would like to quote the SME report, which is from you, Mrs Schramböck: "The report draws an up-to-date picture of the local SME sector and thus provides a profound data base for the design of the economic policy framework. Then: In order to ensure competitiveness, prosperity and the high quality of life of Austria, there is a need for a policy that focuses on SMEs." I have to say how you deal with SMEs – and, dear Peter Haubner, between speeches and action is a big difference; you talk about help, but you don't give them – is exactly the opposite: You destroy the competitiveness, you destroy prosperity and you are destroying the quality of life in Austria with your actions. They say the entrepreneurs are being put to a big test. – That’s not a sample, that’s how you deal with the entrepreneurs. Mr Matznetter has rightly said that you have pulled the floor under the feet of the entrepreneurs. They have removed the epidemic law and made it a bit bitter by people with a legal claim. You have moved billions to the Chamber of Commerce to distribute money there, and the entrepreneurs have been degrading to bitters. They have created a bureaucracy sample that deals with everyone making applications before he even comes to money and will receive money in the future. They feed your businessmen, your SMEs with alms. A comparison: AUA requires 800 million euros for 7 000 employees, which would be 114 000 euros per employee. If a small businessman has six employees, he gets a maximum of 6 000 euros. In other words, one employee in a small company is worth 1,000 euros, and the AUA would be 114 000 euros per employee, so 114 times as much. Because in your quote last year you addressed the prosperity: How will this prosperity still be preserved? – I would like to bring another quote from DDr. Neuner, who writes in his blog No 9: "According to well-known economic experts, a three-month shutdown leads to a fall in GDP of up to 20 percent, which is equivalent to the collapse of the overall market economy system. Mass unemployment, state and corporate pleas and the erosion of the [...] banking system would then be the inevitable consequences.” This is what economic experts say, and you want to maintain prosperity. They say quality of life, which has already been mentioned several times today: If you arrest people at home if they are no longer allowed to go outside if they are scared by your ongoing press conferences, by your self-representation, then take the quality of life. I'm just expecting more of a press conference at the You're all going out to apologise for what you're currently doing to the economy in this country. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Worm.]] Finally, end these bitter actions about the Chamber of Commerce! Finally, put measures in the direction that we are revitalizing the economy! That is why I would like to make two more requests for the recovery of the economy, because it has already happened – what you have done, what you have done, the measures you have put in place, which unfortunately do not work. However, we could now create counter-taxes and corresponding economic packages. Therefore, the application for a community investment and regional economic package: [[Quoted print version removed]] With this we would have a lever of 2 billion euros and this money would come directly to SMEs because the municipalities are the largest clients for SMEs. The second is another appeal to the Chamber of Commerce and to Mr. Kopf: Finally resolve your reserves and give up Get the money back to the company! That is why I would like to make another request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I thank you for your support in the sense of the Austrian SMEs. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[15:28]] The applications have the following general wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e16636	Both applications are sufficiently supported, properly submitted and under negotiation. Mrs. Dr. Elisabeth Götze has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e16663	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear spectators at home in front of your screens! 99.60 percent, two thirds and 60 percent: What these figures indicate are the small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria. 99.6 percent of all companies in the Austrian market economy are small and medium-sized enterprises. They employ two thirds of all employees, including many apprentices, and they generate 60 percent of gross value added. In addition, they are responsible for our supply, also the local supply, for innovations in Austria, for our prosperity and for customer proximity. That's great numbers, but we all know: Then Corona came, and now these small and medium-sized enterprises are going badly. The economy needs support, it needs help. On the one hand, there are the so-called system-sustaining plants, which now have too much to do and which, using their powers, have managed and managed to provide us so well. It has already been said several times thank you and also said that it is important that this is not only a symbolic thank you, but that also expressed in financial support. We have decided that traders have a tax relief in case of a bonus payment. However, it has also been said about caregivers that not only do they need to be thanked, but also that this must be expressed on the basis of the importance in society and in the financial field. On the other hand, there are the other establishments that have had to keep closed or whose sales have been massively broken down because they normally supply these closed establishments, i.e. gastronomy, trade, tourism. All the services companies, the consulting small enterprises are heavily affected. There is support for that. We initially secured 4 billion euros and then increased to 38 billion euros in the near future. Two special instruments have been developed, one is the hardness fund, the other is the Corona crisis fund. I think that was good and right, but I'm also convinced that this can't have been everything yet. We have heard a lot of criticism here too. Yes, in emergency situations, it must be done quickly, and one can also find out which gaps such a security system, such a safety net still has, where we still need to follow. This is happening continuously – Mr Haubner has referred to it. Thank you to all those who practice constructive criticism here, who help to make the security network more secure for our companies. Two examples: Mr Schellhorn has referred to the banks, which, in part, still require business plans, which is not planned. The Corona crisis fund provides grants and loans to ensure liquidity. It's supposed to happen through the banks, but it doesn't work that much. Secondly, The Hardening Fund is a very important tool for small businesses and individuals to replace their lost profits with tax-free direct subsidies. There is also a certain gap, because it was initially designed for three months, but it is foreseeable that not everything will be over in three months. That is to say, we need an extension of the hardness fund. For example, it will have to be interpreted in the longer term for companies that have to cope with sales declines. In the event industry it is now quite obvious, but the project business is also a big topic. When you complete projects, you have still ongoing entrances, the gap shifts into the summer. That means it'll need some improvement. I am convinced that these improvements will come. The Minister of Finance has said: “Do what it needs”, and I assume that this is happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e16719	Josef Schellhorn is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e16743	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! I would also like to comment on the SME report, because it also concerns entrepreneurs like me or this is also the guideline or analysis from 2017. [[The speaker shall keep the report up to date.]] I might also like to ask for some understanding because I was so emotional in the morning, but it also concerns me, it concerns every entrepreneur in this country. I also want to apologize that I was probably too emotional, but still it hit me in the heart. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits.]] [[Abg. Matznetter: No,...!]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Fit,...!]] [[Further calls at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] On behalf of Mr Haubner: Dear Peter, it is already true that the banking directives are being made in Brussels, but the ÖVP was also there, which it has also adopted. So we can not only talk about what is being done in Brussels, but could have contributed to it. Just now, when you finish Maastricht, you can also take out Basel III. This is one of the important aspects of why liquidity is now lacking, because the tension for the entrepreneur is the bank and calls the bank on the Basel III criteria. If colleague Götze says it's all too short, that's a nice insight. I assume that a re-improvement will be made, because it is obvious that companies have liquidity problems and will last longer than just three months. We know that now, and that is why we should work quickly to help entrepreneurs too. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] But what's in here? . We need to read this SME report very carefully because we can now switch to make it easier for entrepreneurs who manage this hercules task to work. [[The speaker will keep the report referred to again.]] The major problem is that sales profitability – and this also stands in it – is ahead of taxes of 4.9 percent. Of 100 euros of turnover, not even 5 euros remain, and after that it is necessary to tax this 5 euros as well. In the gastronomy, sales remain at 1 000 euros – Johannes Kepler University has calculated it – to the entrepreneur 14 euros. That's not much, nobody can survive. De facto, we now have to take the next steps, and the biggest problem is the work factor. Especially in a service sector such as tourism, labour is a very important factor. This is also the reason why in the last ten years the hotel industry has not been able to build these large reserves and is already in liquidity difficulties due to Corona. That is also the reason why we have a low equity ratio. Then I come to a very important point, which is also contained here. I would like to quote an old colleague of the Secretary-General, President Christoph Leitl, who once spoke of a triple B for entrepreneurs, namely bureaucracy, burden and punishment. That is where you have to start, and on the one hand you have to relieve the factor of work, on the other hand debureaucratize immediately. We have talked about this several times since 2014. We have never found a common way, but this path must be taken. The Triple B must be abolished, the punishment must be removed, the burden must be gone and the bureaucracy must be gone. That's essential! At the same time, we must remember to maintain liquidity even in tourism over a much longer period of time and perhaps to provide aid in this corona crisis with a possible freezing scheme, i.e. freezing. Finally, let me say the following: Mr Angerer mentioned the AUA. What is inconceivable with small and medium-sized enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises, is if you learn from the media that you, Mrs Minister, are already negotiating with AUA, and a small and medium-sized business does not at all know whether it is getting a support or a support, and is being held by the bank. I think you need to put another PR machine there. The red-white-red rear fin has not been available since Vranckky, which is already in German hands. We need massive support and immediate help for these companies in Austria. I would therefore like to make three proposals, including to stress the importance of not burdening those who are now voting on the whole load. The first relates to a clarification of the inheritance and property tax: [[Quoted print version removed]] The second request is: Motion for a resolution by Mr Josef Schellhorn, colleagues on ‘Solidarity contribution from special pensions to safeguard jobs and strengthen the economy’ The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is invited to pay the security amount according to To extend the special pension limitation law in accordance with the ground for application in order to extend the benefits in accordance with: To temporarily limit the special pension limitation law to the ASVG maximum pension.’ And the third request: Motion for a resolution by Mr Josef Schellhorn, Members of Parliament, on ‘Solidarity contribution from the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Workers to safeguard jobs and strengthen the economy’ The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to appoint the legal interest representatives to use the dedicated reserves to secure jobs and strengthen the Austrian economy.” Thank you. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lightenness: In contrast to the morning, this was a very quiet speech! Almost too quiet!]] [[Further call at the SPÖ:Fast!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Light peace.]] [[15:40]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e17036	All the motions for resolutions are sufficiently supported, properly put in place and are therefore under negotiation. It is now possible to speak. Carmen Jeitler-Cincelli. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e17060	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Austrians! – Mr Leichtfried, should I please give my speech? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] Thank you. I address my speech today to the entrepreneurs who are out there. I know exactly how they feel right now. These golden times that we read about today in this report, which are described there, have been over for a few weeks. I myself personally had this experience about ten years ago when the financial crisis came, when the company that my husband and I had built up with strength came into a difficult situation. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Light peace.]] I know what it meant – with three small children – to try to keep the employees and to endure this time. I think the essential thing is to see that economy is, to a large extent, psychology. We are now facing these major challenges. But when I look at time retrospectively, I see that I learned a lot back then. Chances have arisen, we have tried new ways. I think it is possible to get out of such a phase together, because crises also make strong. How we now master this phase together becomes a kind of self-fulfilling prophecy. It is up to us all, to politics – here I am with you. [[Intervocations by the Deputies Schellhorn and Worm.]] But it is also up to the media and everyone and every one of us, how we deal with the matter and how much confidence we allow again. Let us learn to live with this disease, to respect it as part of our world, as it is now! We live with her in our own responsibility and with optimism! We're dealing with a fear virus, and that's additionally supported by panic generation, not least by some media. Our economy and our society now need a medicine against this panic and fear virus. I don't think we need any more rage, either – I'm here with you. I find you always exhilarating, but also a little inflationary, Mr Schellhorn, but I also think it is good that you have now relativized this. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Leichtfried and Mr Schellhorn.]] When I read the headlines, I think that's wrong, which is often said in the media: It will never come again such a time, it will change everything! - I don't think so. We create reality; with our thoughts, with our words we create our future. That is why I say there will be again for all these golden times. Grandparents will travel on vacation with their grandchildren, they will build sand castles. We will cook together with our friends, we will celebrate family festivals, we will dance together, we will sing, we will have it again beautiful and we will celebrate life. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] I end up – as almost always – with a quote, this time by Snoopy. Charlie Brown says: One day, Snoopy, we'll all die, and Snoopy says: Yeah, that's right, but it's not all the other days. We'll live!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e17134	Mrs Federal Minister Dr Margarete Schramböck spoke on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e17158	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! If today were an ordinary plenary session in an ordinary time, I would report to you the sensational results of the medium-sized companies, just as we have already heard it, as it is contained in this report: of the records and good numbers of SMEs. – But that is not the case. The situation is in the truest sense of the word extraordinary. We are in one of the biggest challenges that Austria has had to face since the Second World War. The last financial crisis in 2008/2009, which many of us still remember, had a massive economic impact, but in the medical, economic and also in the highest personal impact the last weeks probably put everything in the shadow of what our society, what we have so far experienced. Ladies and gentlemen, we don't mind! We have to say things clearly: The pandemic brings us a setback and we are going through a deep valley in our economic development. Whether the valley means 4, 6 or more percent decrease in gross domestic product, it is not yet serious to answer and certainly also depends heavily on how intensive and disciplined we stick to the current measures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] All in Austria are doing great things. I would like to thank everyone for this. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] It's clear to me: We can only pass through this valley if we keep together and take this path uphill. It is our Community task to support our businesses, to help them secure the jobs they create, and to encourage them to take this path back to the summit. This is our common state-political responsibility – that of the Federal Government and that of Parliament. Austria was among the first European countries to take rapid and very determined steps to combat the corona virus. We have worked out these packages together and decided unanimously here. I thank you for this support, and thank you for having made this shoulder closure here together for Austria. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] A very important cornerstone is the package of 38 billion euros of guarantees, of funds, of tax charges, of very concrete grants for the EPUs, for SMEs, for start-ups, but also for larger businesses. These amounts do not serve any purpose. They are the means of a joint power act to secure jobs in order to preserve the structures in Austria, so that it is possible to return to a normal economy as quickly as possible and very quickly as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, call me a country next to Germany and us worldwide, which has such an attractive model of short work! [[Call the SPÖ:Switzerland!]] [[Call the FPÖ:Genau, exactly!]] You won't find anything. The short-time work before termination, which is our common goal, is the Austrian Way, which is a success model of the social market economy. The social partners have also contributed accordingly, and I thank you for that. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] More than 140 000 applications have already been processed in the hardness fund in the shortest time. At this stage, in the second phase, 60 000 applications are already under way. We have directly disbursed 122 million euros from the hardness fund, and the funds, the billions for the hardship, are available as well as the funds for the other measures. It's not obvious that all of this is happening. Behind each of these applications are excellent and diligent colleagues in the various resolution points at the AMS, the AWS, the WKO and the financial offices. They are under full load and with cardiac blood to maintain the operation in Austria. That is why I would like to thank those who work daily and now in this hour for the support of Austrian companies for maintaining jobs, especially for their great performance. Thank you very much. [[I should like to thank the rapporteurs of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the ……]] Let me now return to the topic of local SMEs. They were also part of this report and we have already heard that they account for 99.6 percent of Austrian businesses. These are not anonymous numbers in any registers, but hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs, tens of thousands of jobs, millions of employees and their families. They have made what it is today through their innovative power, their know-how, their commitment, the training of apprentices, the training of skilled workers and the export of Austria. They continue to do so in this crisis day by day and are in the process of bringing Austria forward. Our common thanks are due to you. – Thank you very much for that. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will walk the way uphill again and we will lead the Austrian site back to the top. We must reflect on the strengths we have, and at the same time we will have to go new and innovative ways and find new solutions, just as we do now together. Proven will remain, but we must now turn to the right screws, because a red-and-white comeback of our country can only be created with all courageous entrepreneurs in all sectors, whether in tourism, crafts, industry, service or service. What's going on? . We will always be a country in the heart of Europe, which ensures most of the value added, wealth and its jobs by means of export. This concerns not only the management companies, but also our SMEs, of which around 800 are linked and connected to each large company, and we can be proud. What's different? – We will return productions to Europe and Austria. This is not only about medical protection equipment, but also about pharmaceuticals and other products, which are to be again reinforced in Europe and in Austria. Masks made in Austria have already become reality today. This must be the rule and must not be the exception. We can see that we have many critical technologies and critical infrastructure in the country. We must protect them from the strategic sale to third countries. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! To stay back to the mountain at the image of the road from the valley: The longest march also begins with the first steps! We have taken these first steps together. I cordially invite you to take the further steps to support our entrepreneurs in the best possible way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e17241	Cornelia Ecker is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e17265	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! In the first place, I would like to refer briefly to the statements made by Mr Jeitler-Cincelli: You turn to the speaker's desk and tell the businessmen in Austria that there is a chance in the crisis, and then you also quote Snoopy. So that's too little, so we won't save a company in Austria! [[It was in favour of SPÖ and NEOS, as well as members of the FPÖ.]] The Minister has already said in her statement that we are in an economic crisis, in the worst crisis since the Second World War. I would also like to talk about the current situation. Many entrepreneurs have been afraid of their existence for weeks. They don't know how it goes anymore! The fact that over 300 000 EPCs are particularly strong is obvious, but many small and medium-sized enterprises are also concerned about the future. With the introduction of the German Federal Government hardening fund, it was promised that the economic operators would be included in the arms and that they would continue to be helped. Just, quite honestly: That wasn't even a drop on the hot stone! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, this has not changed with the start of the phase two of the hardness fund. The application is very complicated and highly bureaucratic. The fact that the Chamber of Commerce is dealing with the applications is already a matter of great concern to me in terms of data protection alone; I do not want to go into that at all. Why not use the Ministry of Finance, which had a lot of data anyway, is my fault. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Many economic operators report that the application would not have been possible at all without tax advisors. What does that mean? – You have to spend a lot of time and money to make these applications. Is this the uncomplicated quick help, dear Federal Government? – Quick help looks different! One speaks of three times 2 000 euros, which one gets maximum as a company. I have a small company with seven to eight employees and I tell you: This sum does not even correspond to the regional health care benefit I have to pay on the 15th of each month. So that's just a drop on the hot stone again. I also do not want to mention that 2 000 euros a month are the maximum you get, and that is really pathetic. If you go to Germany look, a country that has helped small and medium-sized enterprises impressively and unbureaucratically, especially those with among ten employees, to whom a total of 50 billion euros of emergency aid have been paid unbureaucratically – so to speak in the Direttissima – on the company account, we can cut off a disc in Austria, Mrs. Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I know, Germany is bigger, has more budget and, and, but, my dear, Ladies and gentlemen, we in Austria too must make every effort to ensure that this health crisis does not become an adult economic crisis. I therefore call on the Federal Government to increase the funding of the hardening fund so massively that it deserves the title of economic aid. Finally, an appeal to all those who are watching this National Council meeting today: Dear Austrians, buys regional products, buys in the village and does not order on the Internet! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e17340	Walter Rauch is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e17365	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Yeah, where do we start? Let's start with the ÖVP. Mrs. Jeitler-Cincelli, you've spoken of a fear virus and you've been trying to make the economy brave. They have compulsorily closed the companies in the last five or six weeks. So you have to ask for a clear sign. I would like to ask you: Stop these announcements and go into implementation! Give the people, the companies a perspective to be able to re-economy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In recent weeks, they have built up a bureaucratic obstacle that seeks the same. Why do I say that? – In the final effect, almost no one in this republic knows anymore. Tax advisors are overburdened, they no longer know how to deal with these announcements and with the new daily measures. It is mainly about a perspective for entrepreneurs who have no chance to turn somewhere, to defend themselves or to refer to position. At the ministry or also at the Chamber of Commerce, one stands in front of closed doors. I'd expect you to finally start implementing and acting sometime. What does the Chamber of Tax Advisors write? – “Existing platforms such as the Entrepreneurship Service Portal and FinanzOnline must be used instead of always inventing new applications and processes for each action.” That's what the board of tax advisers says. Many, therefore, need the help of a tax advisor to fight through the jungle of the application. A tax advisor from Vienna, Josef Horvath, says: “You couldn’t have done this much more complicated.” The next statement comes from one of your side, from one that is probably not quite unknown in your sector. [[towards ÖVP]] Former Secretary of State Stummvoll says: “With the variety of aid packages from the Federal Government, the Länder and the Chamber of Commerce, many businesses have lost the overview to whom they should turn.” – That is what your own group colleague says! [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs. Federal Minister, save our service providers and not your lenders from industry and large companies! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[16:01]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e17630	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Oberrauner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e17659	Mr President. Estimated members of the government! Dear colleagues and valued spectators at home! The foundation of the Austrian economy has already been discussed: 60 percent of turnover, 24 billion euros of investment and two million people receive work from small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria. I would therefore like to address something that has not yet been mentioned, namely that I think the approach of these measures is, above all, wrong for small businesses and for EPCs, for two important reasons. The first reason is: This is not a promotion to help small businesses jump, but rather a compensation based on a legal regulation designed to counteract the effects of this Covid-19 epidemic. The epidemic law would have solved this well. We would not have needed organisationally any additional structures to be set up in the case of interest groups that would not actually have to manage public money, but as a service to the companies could now make available their reserves from the member contributions. Before we talk about the Chamber of Labour, we should rather talk about the Chamber of Commerce right now. The second is the hardness fund, as it is called in Austria; I already find this semantic to be significant. In Germany, he is called emergency aid, is two to three times as big, is paid out unbureaucratically and suffocated according to the number of employees and really has a sum with which the small and medium-sized enterprises can survive in this pandemic. What happens in Austria is too late, too little and too bureaucratic. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Not even experts can explain to small and medium-sized enterprises how to apply and what legal basis to make available. This is not possible, companies cannot afford to do so. They say 500 or 1 000 euros at the beginning. – Mrs Minister, with all due respect, that is cynical! No one can survive with this money. This means that a company, and even if it is still so small, cannot even cover its fixed costs and cannot afford a tax advisor who then tells him what he does not get or what he may have to repay; of 1 000 euros 350 euros, because the first step was counted. – These are things that don’t go. If the Federal Chancellor says: We drive up again!, then I wish him good luck, because he will not create a single job as a politician, will not drive up anything, and if in the meantime there are no more businesses, because they have not had liquidity to survive, and that is a very important point – then we will have to create the conditions for how we deal with the need, how we deal with social assistance and how we will deal with existences that have been destroyed. That is why I believe that, as a politician, we should have a little more humility, take care of the framework conditions that are really relevant, and not say – as is the vice chancellor: After that, we all failed! – I would say that the epidemic law, which was created 100 years ago under Emperor Franz Joseph, had already regulated many of these things; the money would have been where it belonged, the damage would have been replaced, and when it is locked up, it goes on. If you as a government need time – which is clear because we do not know how this epidemic goes on – then we have to pay this time to businesses as a damage, as stated in the Epidemic Law. I really wish for businesses with up to 25 employees to complete this measure and integrate it into the Epidemic Act. This is also true of other things, such as Ischgl and cable cars, why should it not go with the small businesses that are the backbone of the economy in Austria? I would like this for the only important reason: because you will then need tax revenue to serve your 38 billion euros. I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: But the BIG belongs to the Ministry of Finance!]] [[16:06]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e17790	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Ottenschlager is speaking on behalf of the PPE Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e17814	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Austrians! But above all, ladies and gentlemen of entrepreneurship, who, of course, are here today on this item on the agenda, primarily addressed to this debate! I would like to point out that we also thank you very much for your responsible actions over the last few weeks. Most of them have been really responsible with your employees, this is not a matter of course, and you are expressly thanked at this point. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens as well as the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] As an entrepreneur, I am also fully aware that this situation represents an unprecedented challenge for entrepreneurs since 1945, and I also have the highest understanding of all the emotions in play for despair. I can really understand this very well, because I myself can work with companies that are affected. Ladies and gentlemen! I can also understand that there is, of course, a certain frustration in dealing with the banks. This has, of course, been mentioned by previous speakers – and of course also to do with the fact that after the financial crisis we have imposed many regulations on the banks, which, in part – and we have to say that honestly now – are paying in the form of the current situation, that the banks are relatively good and can therefore also contribute to the boosting of the economy. We must stress that in this context. We need the banks to be able to implement the appropriate aid measures that have already been mentioned to a large extent here and which are also partly criticized. But I also ask you to understand: Policy, and above all, of course, the Federal Government with the Minister of Finance, also has a responsibility towards all taxpayers. A Minister of Finance also has the function of a trustee for all taxes that are done by us. In this context, the Federal Government must carefully deal with the resources available, so of course there is also a kind of bureaucracy to ensure that those who really need help receive it and not others who may need it less or not at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Estimated entrepreneurs, I therefore also ask for understanding, with all frustration, with all emotion and despair: We also need to deal with these tax funds carefully in a crisis like this, so that you, who are directly affected by it, can actually come to the aid you need. What I honestly do not understand is when the opposition politicians stand here and say on the one hand: Everything has to go fast, everything has to go unbureaucratic!, Why are we not involved, where is transparency?, and on the other hand already say: We will control all of this with a committee where the funds have been flown, and so on and so on. So you're actually already implying: Why didn't you control that better? - So what's now? Should we - - - - No, no, but control afterwards is always easier! [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: No, control is not...!]] [[New call of the abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] Now I come to a point that really upsets me. There's the Cofag, that's the agency that's supposed to handle the big aid fund. This Cofag has a consultative board who made himself up yesterday. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] – Mr Sepp Schellhorn, you would have been predestined to attend, but you refused. There you can discuss exactly what you are addressing, what may not work well, and make a contribution, not in retrospect, but now, so that things run better. This advisory board has its own rules of procedure, in which we have extensive rights, and I now take the time – I have read them, yes – to work it out briefly, so that the entrepreneurs, the Austrians, know what the function is and why I and many of us do not understand why the opposition refuses to cooperate. [[Abg. Schellhorn: Did you read it?]] The members of the Advisory Board of this Agency, which, as has been said, are expected to deal with 15 billion euros as assistance to entrepreneurs, will receive all information at the same time as the Supervisory Board members. There is an open exchange with the management, with the Supervisory Board. Participation in the opinion-building process, who receives what assistance, will take place before the action is taken. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] The Supervisory Board must deal with the concerns of the Advisory Board. There is a suspensive veto right, full transparency in all cases, whether large or small. That is also the reason why we as Advisory Board members must make a declaration of confidentiality, because we can all see these documents. The purpose is, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, that we here, who we are perhaps practitioners like Mr Sepp Schellhorn, can make a contribution, namely to see if things are going the way we all consider them to be right, namely that the Austrian economy is being helped in this situation. I can only repeat it: I do not understand why you do not assume this responsibility for the Austrian economy, for the companies in this country! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A SPÖ resolution on Austrian Airlines has already been tabled today. This is exactly the subject: How do we deal with companies such as the AUA?, is discussed in this advisory board. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: The negotiations will not be...!]] This advisory committee is discussing the way in which we consider support to be reasonable, and everyone can express his or her opinion and make his or her contribution there. I think this is a good example of how to jointly shape these implementations responsibly and transparently. Two more sentences on the SPÖ's motion for a resolution on AUA – I am also explaining why we will reject it today in the vote: They now assume in the second immediately that the nationalization of the AUA is the only proven means, and thus limit any possible negotiation that it needs now. There may also be other solutions. I am not saying that this is not an option, but there are many solutions that we may need to find for this company, and there is also a need to focus on: What is important for the location? What is important for jobs, for value added in this country? That is why, I think, there was a need for more extensive applications than the one that exists here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e17916	Member of the Worm has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e17937	Mr President. Good government! High house! Dear ÖVP, dear government, if you want to know how the mood of Austrian entrepreneurs, especially SMEs, you should watch videos. There are numerous videos of small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria in which entrepreneurs are very clear about their current state of mind. Just look, then you know how some 500 000 entrepreneurs in Austria are currently doing! I already said what was missing this morning is honesty, and it would have been important. They should have told the entrepreneurs: We can't pay for the damage! We're shutting down, but we won't be able to pay for the damage as a state! – That would have been honesty. Many have now realized that it is, and they take all their reserves in the company and their private money. The whole thing is still, I say, acceptable to many if it is foreseeable that it has an end. That is why the opposition, among other things, is so important, because we have been pressing for weeks to get to a normal state as soon as possible, because the financial reserves are now ending. Entrepreneurs and workers also need a perspective, they need to know when the whole game has an end and when sales and business can finally be made again; this is now urgently necessary. Now, especially to two groups that have hit it massively, to gastronomy and tourism. Maybe a short time. Figures: 60 billion euros per year and 680 000 employees in gastronomy, hotel industry. Both areas are currently on zero, and they urgently need a signal, when and how it goes on, and no confused statements on CNN or elsewhere where. I say it again, and I will also make a request for it: We call for the immediate opening of shady gardens and host gardens. It is not to be seen why a street café or a gas garden should not be open in such a weather as it is now. – First story. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Second history, tourism: We will have to drive tourism slowly, but surely again. If tourism does not get a very clear sign that it, I say once, at the end of May or at the latest 1. This will have a very massive impact on June, and many will not survive. There is a need for a clear statement, and I ask the government to do so very clearly. To the gastronomy just briefly said: In recent years, this one has had a long path of suffering: Allergensordnung, bureaucratism and also the No smoking. Meanwhile, in the classical gastronomy, hardly anyone makes money, and we're finally breaking it. One will have to think about the ban on smoking in certain types of operations – and I really urge everyone to do so. Now the businesses are to lock up at 23 o'clock, as it seems to be the idea of the government, but for certain bars and cafes there is no opening at all, which are at the end. So we will have to think about how to help these businesses as quickly as possible and sustainablely as possible. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[16:19]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e18087	The application is properly signed and filed and is at least under negotiation. Mrs Weidinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e18117	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Margarete Schramböck! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by thanking the 500 000 entrepreneurs in this country. EPUs, SMEs and family businesses are businesses, ladies and gentlemen, which are not just about material supplies, but about thinking about generations that make this country what it has become over decades, namely a beautiful country that is captivated by the diversity and richness of services, products and services and attracts guests from all over the world. I would like to thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, many of the entrepreneurs have also given me confidence by telling me their fate in this difficult situation. I am convinced that many entrepreneurs report many Members who are here in this area. All of us take these needs and concerns seriously, ladies and gentlemen, and I thank Mrs. Schramböck, her entire team, the Federal Government team and the institutional teams, from the AMS and the Chambers to the social partners, for sharing and inculcating all the instruments in relation to these points. It would be a bad thing who thinks one could have prepared for this situation, which is unique worldwide and unique in this form, until in every detail. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we must not forget the background music of this economic situation. It is that we are now standing in the sixth week, in which we have left the first phase of acute health risk emotionally and come to the emotional phase of the permanent health risk and the economic impact of employees as well as of Austrian businesses and companies. Against this background, ladies and gentlemen, this Federal Government, together with the Minister for Economic Affairs, has created the instruments that support it. Mrs. Rendi-Wagner, I take you into account when two SPÖ national councils come here and claim against better knowledge that the hardening fund has something to do with supporting the operation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] – This instrument has been created to support people who are entrepreneurship in terms of cost of living. This is an untruth, and [[Abg. Matznetter: Hundreds of thousands work at home...!]] They do not participate constructively in the reconstruction of Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] It is thanks to this government, ladies and gentlemen, that negotiations have been held in Brussels, that it has gone quickly – for us it could have been even faster – and that there are state bonds of 100 percent; these are only used in three countries in Europe, one of them is Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light snow]] Now comes my main message, ladies and gentlemen, to the bank representatives and to the employees in the regional banks: Please accept this offer made by the government, by the Minister for Economic Affairs! In the case of a 100% state liability for a loan, an AWS or ÖHT credit, there is no need to invent additional rules in the banks. Accept this and, if these criteria are met, press the ominous button so that these loans are released! They will then, to a large extent, be converted into non-refundable costs. This support is also available in the case of perishable goods. Please, dear Opposition, take your responsibility seriously, read the requests and do so too! The next point: If Mrs SPÖ-Deputy Ecker stands here and makes the call: Ladies and gentlemen, buy You're not on the Internet, then it's the fifties. [[Follow-up calls from Mr Matznetter and Mr Rendi-Wagner.]] This is the way you used to mean, Mrs Rendi-Wagner: To fall back into a time before the Internet is a perfect nonsense because the online shop belongs to it today. We have a lot of great Austrian platforms that can be used. Get in constructively and apply for these digital offers we have, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Mr Matznetter: Mr President, he has said "disgusting"!]] Finally, I would like to thank the Minister of Economic Affairs for her tireless commitment and also the many, many employees of the AMS, the WKO and the Ministries, who work daily to ensure that we, as the Republic, continue our positive social model as an economic location. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cornelia Ecker]] In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, we will fulfil our responsibilities and continue to work consistently. – As much freedom as possible, as much restriction as necessary, from state-political responsibility for red-and-white red!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e18255	I call Mr Tomaselli. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e18310	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It's a very serious issue. Today we have heard several times that Austria is doing very, very well in the international comparison. That is, we have very, very few infected, we have very few dead, but we also have more than enough intensive and hospital beds. This is not only the merit of the government – quite the contrary – but also the merit of all of us, because we have financed a very, very good health system over years. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] The second thing we have heard about today is the many relief measures and aid packages that the government has issued. It's 38 billion euros, that's the biggest aid package ever. This aid package is also financed exclusively and entirely from the contributions of taxpayers active in Austria. Finally, tax contributions are going to end up in a solidarity stop, which gives us the certainty that we can cope well with Community problems and tasks, so it seems all the more important to us that Corona should be promoted. There is no money in the hands of those people who have refused to pay in to this Community fund, although they had the means to do so. Who am I talking about? – I am talking about tax avoidances that have parked their money in tax havens that are on the black list. They have not deserved the solidarity of employees and entrepreneurs in Austria. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I am therefore all the more pleased that we are now – in this respect we are the third European country in Poland and Denmark – able to make a request that companies whose mothers and daughters have been established in overseas exclusively for reasons of tax avoidance are completely excluded from corona funding. I therefore make the following formal request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[16:27]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e18456	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. [[16:28:02]] 13. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 93/A(E) by Mr Mag. Selma Yildirim, colleagues in relation to climate control in the case of planned sealing of forest or green areas owned or co-owned by the Republic of Austria (89 d.b.) 14. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 395/A(E) by Mrs Julia Elisabeth Mr, ladies and gentlemen, on emergency measures to comply with the national climate objectives (90 d. B.) 15. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 362/A(E) by Michael Bernhard, colleagues on the Federal Framework Law and the Federal Strategy for Spatial Planning and Surface Management (91 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e18520	We now come to Agenda items 13 to 15, on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. Mr Lukas Hammer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e18553	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen. What we are currently experiencing is a comeback of politics. It is not the market that solves our problems, but the policy that relies on scientific experts and accepts their advice. The policy is based on the predictions of scientific experts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] It is a policy that reacts in time and determination, which involves the opinion of experts in their decisions and takes this seriously. Let's have a look at this: If we had done this in climate policy from the beginning, if politics had done so from the beginning – to experts and their forecasts to prevent a disaster – then we could have saved ourselves a lot of suffering in the context of the climate crisis. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] It's about political decisions. [[Calls and countercalls between Mr Bernhard and Mr Leichtfried.]] The market, we know, knows only efficiency and sparing pressure. Where this leads in the health system, we see in Italy or in France where thousands of hospital beds have been saved in recent years; in France alone, 70 000 have been beds in the last 15 years. Whoever saves in the health system pays for it with human life. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Koza.]] It's the same in the climate crisis, even when it comes to climate protection, it's about life. It is not primarily about environmental problems, it is about us, it is about human life, it is about that we can still live on this planet. There too, the market does not help us with its calls for less state and for savings. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] Whoever saves climate protection, risks human life, will pay with human life. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The next heat wave is at the doorstep. Let us remember the last year: Last year was the hottest year in the history of Europe. We have experienced droughts, we have experienced a forest death in Austria, we have had surface fires all over the world – from Australia to the polar circle. It is therefore a good step that we will now adopt these two proposals by a broad majority, on the one hand the request for urgent measures in the field of climate protection, so that we can also achieve our climate targets at national level, and on the other hand – which is particularly important to me – the request for a climate check. In my view, climate check is an important signal, because all the new laws, but also investments of the federal government, need to be reviewed for the consequences for our CO2 balance. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Exactly! That's right!]] Of course, this must also apply to all future economic programmes with which we are trying to help our economy back on its feet. We are facing an economic crisis, a great deal has already been said about it. I believe that we cannot really look at the whole extent, even the European scale – I am not going to make any illusions at all – but it would be a fatal mistake if we were to turn back only one millimeter in the fight against the climate crisis. On the contrary: Investment in climate protection is precisely the job creation and the regional value added that we now need to get out of this economic crisis. Apart from the possibilities we have here, it is simply our responsibility to our children to leave them a life-worthy planet, not a scrap baptism. The children – I have two little daughters myself – have been sitting at home for weeks, can't see their friends, can't go to school, can't even go to playgrounds, can carry all of this, and those of them who're already old enough also understand what it's all about, because they have to be solidarity towards the older generation, towards the weak in our society. From my point of view, it is our damn duty to be equally consistent and equally responsible to our children when it comes to their future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e18627	Mrs Yildirim is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e18648	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, Today is the world's day. In some 175 countries of the world, activists are working for more ecology and sustainability as well as for more environmental protection. For this reason, I would like to particularly greet the climate and environmental activists! A few months ago, more precisely in November of the previous year, I tabled a request which, to my delight, now provides the basis for this joint request. In addition, there is a history that has its starting point in Innsbruck, and it was my concern that green and forest areas owned by the Republic, or green areas managed by the Republic, should not be passed on carelessly due to profit maximisation and without regard to what this actually means for climate protection. In concrete terms, there was a case in the Innsbrucker Hofgarten, which concerns the garden garden. The Innsbrucker Hofgarten is a green area – not only admitted but mainly – which is available not only to tourists but also serves Innsbruckers as a close-up area, as a meeting place. Until three years ago, this was a flourishing garden, which was gladly accepted but whose operation was unfortunately stopped. There is now a bus parking lot to be created. [[Abg. Hörl:... you don't need a parking lot!]] That is to say, this green area, the farm garden garden, which has a 600-year history, is to be sacrificed to a bus parking lot, and this – you have to let go of the tongue – causes a green mayor with the help of the Minister of Tourism and Agriculture. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] We know just now, in times of the Corona crisis, how mass tourism stands. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we, the Social Democrats, will also promote and support the tourism industry in a sustainable way, but in the form that has been the case with mass tourism so far. [[Abg. Hörl: You're in the city government! Don't talk, you're in the government!]] We will have to think about tourism, and I therefore hope that the decision of this request of the bus parking lot on the grounds of the garden will not be implemented. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hörl: You're in the government!]] I say to you, Mr Franz Hörl: In the garden garden, grass should grow, yes, but over the scandals that have caused a few tourists, no grass must grow! Leave You're looking for it, we're gonna stick to it! – In this sense, I would like to thank all Members for their broad support for this request. [[Abg. Hörl: You're in the city government!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e18745	The honourable Member's smoke has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e18767	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs Colleague, where Mr Hörl works, there is no grass growing, there are pistes, that is the difference. [[Calls and calls between Mr Hörl and Mr Leichtfried.]] – No, fun side by side: Mrs. Federal Minister, you have held a press conference on freight and passenger transport today and said that, due to this crisis and due to the initial restrictions in the last five or six weeks which the Federal Government is responsible for, there is currently a minimum of 80 to 90 percent in passenger numbers. At the same time, however, countries now demand that they return to normality. This is an essential point to maintain rail transport and to be able to move freely in the public, by public transport. [[Abg. Lightenness: But that's what the market will do!]] – The market will not regulate this, only the Federal Government and, of course, the countries can regulate it, that is the decisive thing in this area; we can also regulate it here in the National Council. In recent weeks it has been seen that traffic cannot be the main cause of CO2 emissions. Why? – Empty roads, empty highways, empty land roads, empty cities in the last five or six weeks: However, CO2 taxation was as high as before the crisis. What does that mean in the final effect? – In Stuttgart – there is a study – the fine dust value is equal to or higher than before the crisis, without traffic in the city, neither in the private nor in the public sector. Mrs Bundesminister, I expect you to give me an answer, a strategy on how to deal with it. One thing cannot be: to threaten the citizens, the drivers, the entrepreneurs, but at the same time with new taxes, with CO2 taxes, although you know that the Transport is not the main cause of CO2 taxation. One has learned in this crisis that there is also a very different form of CO2 taxation. I expect an answer from you and, of course, from the entire Federal Government. Let us stop with this bureaucracy and also with the burden of the citizens! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e18823	The honourable Member's jewelry beater has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e18871	Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! I think that the discussion here on a single point in Innsbruck shows very well how difficult it is, at the end of the day, to bring environmental measures together with environmental protection, and how much we can then discuss things on individual points. If we are talking about a bus parking lot, we are talking about the intensification and attraction of public transport, and if we are talking about preventing such a thing, then that cannot be in the sense of environmental and climate protection. If, with your request, you have the intention of taking a closer look at all the activities of the public sector, if so to speak, when ground sealing takes place, than we are already doing by means of EIA measures and the like, then, I believe, this is beyond the goal, and then we should also look at what the public hand is doing now when it comes to maintaining the ground. We should not neglect our responsibilities either! In this regard, for example, consider only the Federal Forest, where immense areas are publicly managed, in order to maintain the green lung, the forest in Austria, through care, or on the other hand – quite clearly! – also the national parks, which ultimately provide an ecological balance in Austria with an enormous expansion of their land, with regard to biodiversity, but above all also to the issue of environmental and nature conservation. That is, we are already taking important steps, the question is only: Do we have to solve all local issues in the Austrian Parliament, or would that not be done better in a city government? [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the general issue of the crises is currently marked by the corona crisis and its untold effects. This can partly cover the climate crisis, but unfortunately it cannot make it disappear – and that is our big problem. We are currently faced with a dryness, as we have never had it in Austria! This will be carried out in all areas. it also affects the economy and ultimately also the supply situation of Austria. This will have to be discussed even more in the coming months. But one of the crises is that Austria is known to stand together in such times, to show strong cohesion and also to work together. But the wise minds are thinking not only of tomorrow, they are also thinking about the day after tomorrow, and precisely because of this, we have also set out in the government programme comprehensive measures to reduce soil consumption, but also that we are moving forward in the development of renewable energies. The best location policy and location security is through energy policy, and there must be renewable energy. In the end, it has also been set up by the European Commission with the Green New Deal of Ursula by the Leyen, and it has not been replaced by Corona either. Rather, the Commission has stressed that when we talk about the future, health, digitalisation, but above all the environment must sit at the table. I think we need an economic vision right now, and that is not what it means to be an economic versus the environment, but it is said to make more progress in the economy, for example in Europe in the field of self-sufficiency with energy, and there is a huge opportunity for renewable energy. We have it in our hands, and it also says the house mind that regional value added ultimately also ensures security of supply in Austria. When I speak here of renewable energies, I also automatically come to the example of biomass and wood and the currently massive distress due to the birch beetle calamities in the north of Austria, in the forest areas of the forest district. There is the extremely grotesque situation that the Austrian wood remains in the forest on the one hand, meaning that CO2 is released by rotting, although the wood has already been processed, but imported wood is processed in our plants. We must also call on the processors, so to speak, to call for climate responsibility, so that we can obtain closed cycles within Europe, but above all within the national states, where we have potential and resources, in order to support the economy accordingly with environmental services. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e18939	Mr Bernhard is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e18960	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Before responding to my own request, I would like to address a few words to my previous speaker, the chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Mr Lukas Hammer: The simple basis of our social market economy and the basking of markets is nothing but general in policy: Where the rhetoricians give simple answers to complex questions, the answers are usually quite wrong. What we can say about the market economy – and this is important in environmental policy – is that the funds in the fight against climate change are 90 percent out of the private sector, it is only 10 percent that states can impose on themselves. This works in Europe, in the United States, in Australia, increasingly also in South America and even in Southeast Asia. Now, simply continue to tackle the markets, by the way, also ignores that the biggest problems exist where the market has absolutely nothing to say. I can remind Gazprom that I can remember the state oil companies in the Middle East, I can remember Venezuela and many other examples: Where the state does not need competitiveness, where there is no market, climate and environmental policy fails, I would like to have said that before. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] However, I would also like to address a request from us concerning the real problem of soil sealing and land management, which unfortunately has been rejected in this form in the Committee on the Environment. We still have a central problem in Austria: The surface sealing is increasing again. We are currently at 13 hectares per day, which corresponds only in 2019 to an area of 44 square kilometres. That's not a small thing! We are therefore European champions per head of the population in our country. There is no other state within the European Union that is sealing more space than Austria, but we are also European champions as far as the square meters in the shopping centres and the motorway kilometres are concerned – we generally seal significantly more in all areas. There is no appreciation for nature, for the cultural heritage we see in other areas of Europe, and we have also addressed NEOS in the Environment Committee accordingly. With this we can also - and we know this in many regions - recognize the problem of the core mortality: We can see that in the district cores there is the problem and the local borders, so to speak, of shopping centres and that some regions in Austria may also be European champions in the districts. – All of this we have addressed in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. First, however, the consumption of land in Austria is one of the following: It is the central and, so to speak, largest environmental problem that we have in Austria and that we can solve at the same time within Austria. As long as we seal the amount of land we seal today, we continue to do so with the fact that we have a massive species dying, a massive loss of biodiversity – this is proven to be obvious at all levels: from insect to birds to mammals – we have a massive problem due to surface sealing in the area of resistance, resistance, climate change – everything that is sealed can no longer store CO2, everything that is sealed can no longer turn off heat, it simply shines back – and we also have a problem in agriculture – we have heard praise hymns on our agriculture now; every year we lose the food security of 20,000 people through land sealing. That's not little, these are valuable soils, and there's a need for massive action. We NEOS have put on the table very specific solutions, we have said that we also need a federal framework law and a federal strategy for land management, we need land recycling and compensation measures for areas on which, as it were, new buildings are being built, we need to adapt the funding and Subsidy systems, we need an example of the public hand and, most centrally, our essential argument, a shift from the community to the national level. There is a very concrete example, namely Bavaria, wherever it works. There is a national plan in this case, there is also a corresponding management, and the communities can develop participatively, but they can no longer decide. All of this leads to getting a grip on land use. We have to get away from this – this is a very central element; this must take place in our minds, including all 183 Members here in the House – that land sealing is equated with economic growth. Wise economic growth does not consume any land, does not consume any nature, but creates wealth, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e19029	The next item is Mrs Rössler's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e19051	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Appreciate Members, Watchers and Watchers in front of the screens! The environmental package of the three agenda items under discussion has two priorities: first, climate protection and second, Mr Bernhard has already pointed out, the field of soil protection. I'd like to correct this a little: The application was formally rejected, but in reality its relevant contents were incorporated and extended to a large package of soil protection. Based on this Federal Strategy for Spatial Planning and Surface Management, an intensive debate has initially developed on the responsibilities for spatial planning in Austria, i.e. the field of land use in the own area of activity of the municipalities, spatial planning at national level, but there is, of course, also a specialist planning competence of the federal government. – This is the task of policy, which is why we debate here and put forward appropriate proposals and solutions, because this vote is a task and a political responsibility, especially in terms of land consumption. In this respect, the government programme contains a large environmental package, a large climate protection package that includes land consumption and the conservation of land, conservation of resources and soil protection. Spatial planning and soil protection are, of course, a cross-sectional matter upon closer consideration, and that is why – that was the reason for the addition – we have included related directly affected areas in this exact request of NEOS. We have joined forces in a very constructive, intensive discussion in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, so that the other related issues can be added. These are: the soil protection strategy and land management – I would also like to extend it with regard to biodiversity strategy, because this is directly related to the issue of land loss and land consumption – and also the recommendations on land savings at the Austrian Spatial Planning Conference, supplemented by break-ground recycling, de-resistance management, as well as the monitoring of soil consumption and, above all, soil sealing, further the promotion of building culture – especially in times of climate change, we need quality district planning in the cities, in order to heat Something can be reduced or eased, and we need to adapt climate change overall to the issue of soil sealing. Finally, the rules of the Treaty are an essential instrument for local authorities to identify areas that are more economical and, above all, the right ones. In fact, proper spatial planning policy is also right and good climate protection policy. We do not need to discuss a reduction in traffic if we are to identify new settlement areas away from potentially available public transport. Of course, it is also about strengthening trans-regional spatial planning, including energy space planning. All of this has become a truly strong, good package of land protection and spatial planning, and I thank you for the very constructive and intensive debate in the Environment Committee. How do climate protection, soil and corona relate? – The dryness was mentioned, the frost damage in fruit making. So many functions, not only as a basis of life, also as a water reservoir, as a CO2 storage, but especially in these days, in which we are looking after it, we need and appreciate the soil as part of a diverse landscape and for the beauty of nature. This spatial planning package has thus become a truly good nature conservation and soil protection package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e19102	The next item is the speech by Mrs Herr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e19123	Dear High House! I have been a member of the National Council for about half a year now, and I wonder why laws sometimes do not seem to be taken very seriously and not really a hundred percent implemented. [[Call the ÖVP:False Group!]] The Climate Protection Act is a very concrete example of this. In recent weeks, hardly any rain has fallen, as a result there have been forest fires throughout Austria and we also have worryingly low groundwater levels – and it is only mid April. Even now, when we are drawing on the last months, we can say: The year 2020 is 2.6 degrees hotter than the average of the last decades. And yet – still! – it seems that climate protection law is not taken seriously. I wonder, why? – The law is simply explained: It prescribes year after year how much we need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and – this is an important point – it also requires what must happen if we do not comply with these climate objectives: Then, within six months, you have to put forward a plan for how to sharpen. That is exactly what has not happened under the then Minister for the Environment Köstinger, she has opted for the six months and has been able to take time at the expense of our future – and if there is something in the debate about the climate crisis, of which we have plenty, then of course it is time! A year later – the process of immediate action was still under way – also showed the following year's balance sheet: We also exceeded climate targets in 2018. Probably, you can say that now, we will also exceed it in 2019. And even the current Minister for the Environment of the Greens has not complied with the six months – would you calculate the time limit – and has let down the last time limit for the emergency measures due to the missing climate change targets. We then announced yesterday that we would make a request that would not be allowed to happen, and see, this morning, at 9 a.m., a mail arrived and the measures due to the missing climate change targets were presented early today. This shows us, above all, how important parliamentary control is and why we must look at the ÖVP and the Greens very carefully on the subject of climate protection. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now a sentence on the planned emergency measures that have been presented today: There are now a large number of measures that are already in place. That's what you're talking about ban on plastic sacks, that there's no speed 140 on the highway – all these are measures that already exist. Mrs. Minister, this is really ambitious. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The WWF calls it “mutless”, Global 2000 a “deep point”. The point is: Whether these measures, which you have presented, are enough, we do not know, you do not know for yourself – that is what the paper says. Although the law proposes exactly that, it is not clear whether we can even comply with the measures presented today. I'm asking: Why, then, do we write such concrete measures into a law if it seems to be wished whether we comply with it or not? It must not be too much for ÖVP and Greens, who attach themselves to achieving CO2 neutrality by 2040, to comply with their own climate protection law, therefore I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[17:00]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e19277	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and under negotiation. I welcome Mrs Geessler. She will now speak. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e19301	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to express my thanks – a thank you for the preparatory work in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and for the hopefully broad support for the request for climate control here in the House today, because this is a very, very important step in a very sensitive and very important area, namely climate governance. It is a question of how institutional, political and structural conditions can ensure that the measures we decide here, which we propose as the Federal Government, are geared towards climate protection. In this sense, the climate check, which was widely supported in the Committee on the Environment, is really an important milestone, and I thank you for bringing it on the way today, because we see – and this leads to the second topic, the Climate Protection Act – that we also need to catch up and take action in the field of climate governance. Today we have published the report according to the Climate Change Act. What's this about? – The greenhouse gas emissions of those contaminants not covered by emissions trading were in Austria 2017 and 2018 above the target path in accordance with EU law and also above the target path in accordance with the Climate Change Act – that is clear. This has set in motion a mechanism: As a result of the overrun in 2017, the transitional government launched a process for the preparation and collection of additional measures in line with the legal requirements. I took over this ongoing process, then streamlined it with a view to a discussion in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and this joint process, in accordance with the Climate Change Act, has now been completed. The measures and the table of measures notified were published on the BMK website today and also transmitted to the National Climate Change Committee. This will come together as soon as it is possible to discuss this report, because yes, we need to discuss it, and yes, we need action at two levels. On the one hand, I am committed to all those who say that the negotiation process provided for in the current Climate Change Act is worthy of improvement in the event of target-value breach. We have also recognised this and are already working in the Federal Ministry on the implementation of that passport in the government programme, which provides for a new climate protection law to establish an improved “mechanism for taking additional measures in case of target failure”. Why is that so important? . We also need to create the institutional framework for all of us, from the municipal level across the country to the federal level, to take a lead in achieving these really ambitious goals. The second point: Yes, we have a lot to do, including this table of measures. That's perfectly clear. The measures represent the status quo prior to the preparation of the government programme, i.e. in particular all additional measures from the government programme are not yet shown, without a doubt – this shows us the greenhouse gas balances, which shows us the history, which also shows us the forecast for 2019/2020 – but we have much to do. What did we do for that? – These measures are, in particular, measures that are effective directly for the 2020 balance sheet. You will hear in the budget debate next week or have already seen in the budget documents that the resources for climate protection and for very central funding measures in this budget will be significantly increased, for example in the context of the out-of-the-oil bonus, which has been significantly increased, or thermal rehabilitation. This is, as I believe, a very, very important signal at the present time, because it is one of those areas in which climate protection can become a particularly positive way out of the current crisis, because it induces local employment and local value added. Thermal renovations are made by the construction companies in Austria, which thus helps an industry that is particularly under pressure. The oil boiler replaces the installer, the installer from the place, which also leads to local employment, local value added, is thus a classic win-win. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Furthermore, we are very intensive in developing the measures that need a legislative framework, which will therefore work from 2021 onwards. On the one hand, this – which has already been addressed by the Member of Parliament’s jewelry beater – concerns the expansion of renewables. We are intensively working on what the EAG, the oeuvre expansion, the 1- 2-3-Ticket, many of the projects you know; but we also work – and here I repeat the note on soil protection – on a novel to the Old Load Rehabilitation Act, which will also include a new funding instrument for the recycling of the break-ground. To use already sealed areas, to re-use them, is a building block, not the solution to everything, but an important building block, and thus we want to make a contribution in this novel, a step in the context of this comprehensive soil protection package, which was decided on in the Environment Committee. It is perfectly clear that we have a lot to do in the field of climate protection, we have set ourselves ambitious goals, but I want to make my climate policy based on science. It is absolutely unquestionable that in recent years and decades traffic has made one or the substantial contribution in this regard and has developed most adversely from all sectors. The fact that emissions are also affected, of course, if there is much less traffic for a while, and much less production, is likely to occur, but there is still no well-founded data, which is only to be read in a few months. What already exists is data concerning the direct effect on the air quality, and I do not want to keep that away from you because it was quoted here. I have data from two measuring points in Upper Austria, on the basis of which one can also see that the Austrian population is really very exemplary in terms of measures to limit traffic and to reduce the corona crisis. Nitrogen dioxide loads fell to around 15 percent at the measuring point at the Römerberg Tunnel, in Enns to around 10 percent. That means, of course, you can see an immediate effect. Is that a solution? - No, of course not. This is not something I can look forward to because a crisis does not replace climate policy. Our task, our common task, will be to solve two problems at once on the way out of the crisis with ambitious climate policy, namely by resisting a threatening economic and labour market problem with full force and by providing a life-worthy planet. In this sense, I look forward to working together.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e19380	Members of Parliament are hereby informed of the position of Mr Jeitler-Cincelli. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e19401	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would also like to thank you, too, for the fact that this was a very interesting and constructive debate. In my opinion, this was a special committee meeting, I think that it was very, very subject-oriented to discuss, and that does not take place in every committee, and that is very instructive for all of us. Unfortunately, these environmental issues are completely overshadowed by other issues. The discussions on climate change, Fridays for Future, all these topics are very, very far away, that's almost stupid. Together, some challenges have shifted through the complete transformation of our lives, due to the lack of air traffic, by the fact that no fewer or less cargo ships are on the move. It is becoming increasingly aware of people, including regional consumption, that I believe. Somehow one has the feeling that Corona has run out of Greta Thunberg almost a little bit. I believe, however, that since we all want to focus on re-establishing the economy so that we can get back to a previous level of performance, we need to look at this area in particular, where we can recognise business opportunities – and in Austria we are fully at the forefront with environmental policy measures. We pursue a climate policy on two pillars: One is the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and the other is the adaptation to the inevitable consequences of climate change. In order to be able to implement future measures in a structured and thoughtful manner, climate check provides a very, very valuable instrument. I have the feeling that this is a little bit of a 360 degree radar with which one can orientate, as well as all state decisions on climate protection are included. I believe that this was a very, very great thing, also in the discussion, because we all agreed in it – perhaps different in detail – that this is necessary to make Austria climate neutral in 20 years. However, our objective is to continue to be a pioneer in Europe. With our environmental technologies, with our innovative entrepreneurs and companies in this field, we are very far ahead. For me, this is a large area of the economy, which can still be extended very far in the future. Only if you look at these SDGs, what is possible and what can be done, are the business models that can also bring our prosperity back to the fore in Austria. And an appeal to the people and the many young people – perhaps HTL graduates, TU students – who are now at home: Get some project on the way! Start an initiative! I think now is exactly the time to go into thinking. Writes various big companies! I think we now have the time to make a chance out of this crisis. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e19443	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e19465	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, soil is a very high asset, and land and land consumption has increased quite well over the last decades. In the last 60 years alone, around one third of the agricultural production area has been lost. However, you can say: Of course, agricultural land or land consumption is also linked to economic development, whether this is, on the one hand, in the industrial and industrial sectors or, on the other hand, the question of how to actually live. Thank God not all people in Austria live in large houses, but there are many homes, and this also has a certain influence on how much land there is. If I say that soil is a very high good, this is of course also very different from the value of regional. Consider the district of Linz-Land or the triangle Steyr-Linz-Wells in Upper Austria. I would not want to be a farmer there because there is a huge pressure towards land consumption, while in other areas it is completely different. If you are aware of what soil consumption means on the basis of the year 2019, our federal capital Vienna an area of 414 square kilometres, and you put it into practice, then in about nine years the area of Vienna is consumed – you speak on the basis of the year 2019. At this level, I believe many initiatives of the Federal Government are very valuable – these have already been addressed today, for reasons of time I do not want to repeat them – and it is important that they are implemented accordingly in the future. In the direction of spatial planning, I am already allowed a hint: All those who are at home in local politics – and I believe no matter what federal state – know that spatial planning is in good hands in the competence of the communities in cooperation with the countries, but even more cooperation and cooperation at the level of municipal states-bund is valuable and can be achieved with one another that something reasonable comes out. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bernhard]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e19510	Members of Parliament are hereby informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e19531	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! On the one hand, our soil, our landscape is diverse, on the other hand, we have a strong consumption by the fact that we have sealed 13 hectares a day in the past time, and this of course has an impact on the entire environment. For example, there are more floods in heavy rains, as the gliding surfaces are often not sufficiently available. There is also the problem that in the district cores the houses are partially no longer renovated, as the cost of disposal is very high. Therefore, in smaller communities, the village cores die out and the green bacon belts of the cities are simply more built – the agricultural land, of course, is also used. As I have already pointed out, 13 hectares a day are sealed. This is as much as 20 football fields, and you have to bear in mind that it happens daily – this results in an annual loss of 5,000 hectares. This, in turn, corresponds to a loss of 30 million kilos of bread, which is to be equated with the quantity of the 350 000 Austrians each year. Of course, in order to ensure Austrian food security, it is also necessary to look at soil consumption. The government programme contains really good approaches to ensure that climate protection and the reduction of land consumption are taken into account. It has already been mentioned: A soil protection strategy and also a future-oriented spatial planning, which – as already mentioned – cooperation between countries, municipalities and federal government, and also the promotion of inter-branch recycling are of course very important. I would also like to mention in particular the promotion of the renovation of buildings in urban cores. The Corona crisis has shown us how important a high degree of self-sufficiency through agriculture in Austria is. That is why it is a good way to go in the future, by ensuring that we do not seal as much soil as before. Nevertheless, it is also important to continue to implement infrastructure measures in rural and local areas, but with brain and hand and heart.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e19574	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. [[17:16:50]] 16. Point Report by the Transport Committee on the Government Template (15D.B._Other Organiser Air transport agreements between the United States of America as the first party, the European Union and its Member States as the second party, Iceland as the third party and the Kingdom of Norway as the fourth party (57 D.B.) 17. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (16D.B._Other Organiser Additional Agreements between the European Union and its Member States as the first party, Iceland, as the second party, and the Kingdom of Norway, as a third party, on the application of the air transport agreement between the United States of America as the first party, the European Union and its Member States as the second party, Iceland as the third party and the Kingdom of Norway as the fourth party (58, B.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e19614	We come to the agenda items 16 and 17 on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e19641	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! What are the main points of the present aviation agreement? – The challenges have changed completely in recent weeks. Air transport will change, it will have to change. This is a burden on the one hand, but this is also an opportunity for rethinking in European air transport. To observe climate conditions, to be able to provide job security and to continue to offer international connections – that is the task. State aid must not become a free letter to the air transport industry in order to be able to continue unimpressed as before the crisis. – Not more of the same! Responsible handling of the tax money is required. And one thing is quite clear: The predatory capitalism at the flight level of the low-cost airlines must come to the ground, it must end with these unfair methods that are being demonstrated there. With dumping offers to fly the bet, ecological and socially just standards must have an end, dear Members. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the competition of airports for frequency, the price struggle destroys existences, companies, and with the consequences remains the citizen, the citizen alone on board. This is the wrong destination, ladies and gentlemen. This operating concept must be changed! This is not globalisation, as we imagine it, it is unolidarian. The AUA with social and labour standards, which are worthy of improvement, has very bad cards when you fly the cheap flyers constantly around your ears and taxpayers burn the earwash when it comes to releasing tax aids again. It takes a booster turnaround in European air transport and a vertical start for social and environmental fair conditions. One thing, I think, is very important: There is a need for mandatory air traffic conditions in order to meet the Paris climate targets. This is also a great task. Get down with the emissions and the noise, get up with the quality! For that, I think post Corona support here in the high house needs. These are the challenges of the agreement and, above all, for us in Austria in the coming days, when we discuss how the aviation industry, the aviation industry in Austria can continue to find a socially just location. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e19690	Mr Stöger has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e19711	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Air transport connects the nations. It is important for Austria that there be links to other nations. We are a UN site, we are active in the field of tourism, we are a cultural nation, we want people to come to Austria. That's important. This also requires the necessary transport connections. Especially in aviation, it is important – as I can quite agree with my previous speaker – to ensure the new development. In order to ensure the new development in air transport, it also needs a strong company that can be designed by public authorities. There is now a time window to bring the Austrian company AUA back into public decision-making processes or to implement what people need. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, I have some questions to the Federal Government: Should there be public funds for the AUA? Is that what you want? If that's what you want: What kind of financial aid is that supposed to be? What conditions do you want to attach this to? How will the AUA, the Vienna-Schwechat air transport location and the other locations continue in the long term? For this to happen, there must be transparent information so that we can have a discussion here in Parliament about how we deal with it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Personally, the future of jobs at AUA and the safeguarding of the economic location in Eastern Austria are particularly important to me. There's no room for secret negotiations. If we do not help quickly to secure jobs, then a state participation in either Lufthansa or directly in the AUA – I think the AUA is system-relevant for the economic location of Austria; it concerns employees – is necessary. If we want to, the AUA must have a chance on the long distance. We know that in the future the short distances will be carried out by train rather than by plane. That will be so, and therefore we need the perspective of the long distance, and that is why we need an aid service that works. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e19756	Members of the Kirchbaumer have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e19783	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! Talking about aviation may not seem too important at this time, at the time of the Corona pandemic, after the entire aviation has come to an end. - Yes, it's important: There will certainly be a time after Corona, and all preparations must be made to ensure that there will be an adequate and accessible air traffic in the future. In international air transport, it is not only necessary for the authorities to cooperate well, but also important for passengers that they can travel safely and comfortably and have the best offer at their disposal. In principle, this agreement is intended to create additional opportunities for investment. This will facilitate market access for air carriers in all participating countries. This application concerns the accession of Norway and Iceland to the aviation agreement between the European Union and the United States of America. The additional Protocol also provides for the procedure between the European Union, Norway and Iceland on arbitration proceedings and the procedure for suspension of traffic rights. The procedure for State aid is also governed by the agreement. The aim of this agreement is to create competition at an eye-to-view level. A number of efforts will still be needed in the future to reduce barriers and barriers and to increase market access. Proposing barriers and barriers: I personally wish that such agreements will also exist in the near future in rail transport. As has already been reported several times, there are massive problems in the access lines to the Brenner Base Tunnel. There is a need to close the shoulder between Tyrol, South Tyrol and Bavaria so that the access lines are built as quickly as possible so that this European project does not become a European disaster. Actually, it's already after twelve. In international air traffic, it is not necessary for the pilot to be replaced, if it exceeds a national border, in rail transport, the locomotive driver must be very much replaced. We must continue to work on this as a model of air transport in order to become more attractive in international rail transport as well. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e19823	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e19841	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! On the real issue of air transport agreements, I do not think I have to say much more – Mrs Kirchbaumer has already dealt with them in detail – except perhaps that we can only hope in this crisis situation that we will soon need such agreements once we have hopefully come out of the crisis. Some previous speakers and Mrs Kirchbaumer have also mentioned this: The aviation industry is in an unprecedented crisis, especially the European airlines. Also the current discussions on travel freedom, to show summer tourism, show that a normalisation of travel traffic in foreseeable time is not really to be expected. Against this background – as I may briefly address the previous speakers – we of course have the goal of securing Austria's air transport location in a sustainable way. There we are, I believe, all of us agree. Of course, the maintenance of the hub at Vienna airport and a strong hubcarrier in Austria also plays a special role; Mr Stöger has already mentioned this. Even for the economy as a whole and for tourism in Austria, a hub and thus also a certain balance between long distance, medium distance and short distance is crucial. In order to take only the Austrian airlines as an example: The AUA is the only airline offering direct connections from Austria to the USA, and from a total of 46 Eastern European destinations it serves 30 from Vienna. That's where you see the meaning. In this context, safeguarding aeronautical jobs along the entire value chain also has a very high priority for us. Home air transport in the broadest sense ensures more than 55 000 jobs – you have to imagine that! There is also a new study by the Economica Institute for Economic Research, which shows the impact on jobs, this relationship very well. This includes 30 000 employees directly in the air transport sector, but also 20 000 jobs in companies on the so-called intermediate network, all around it. The tourism and travel industry or the travel industry as a whole, of course, also benefits very much, very much from aviation. Mr Weratschnig from the Greens mentioned that the issue of sustainability must, of course, be very important in the discussions and negotiations. This concerns, on the one hand, labour and social standards, but also the objective of setting up air transport more environmentally, sustainable and environmentally friendly in the future. Let me draw attention to the economic aspect, which Mr Stöger has also mentioned, and it is clear that, in our aviation negotiations, we follow the premise that the famous phrase “costs what it wants” has its limits too. I think that must be said openly, at least in some areas – and that could be the case. The importance of this sector is therefore clear. Now it is about setting up a proper process and starting with an analysis of the situation. In this context, the instruments you have all created together with us, which the State has created, must be examined by experts, both economically and in terms of the overall air traffic situation. These experts can then also show policy options. It will be important for all options to be examined, which is the right solution for the location and maintenance of jobs, and for us not to set ourselves too quickly for a solution and a direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e19899	Member of the European Parliament has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e19920	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing today a government proposal on an air transport agreement between the European Union and the United States of America and a government proposal on an additional agreement on the application of the air transport agreement. This air transport agreement was actually signed in 2007 and regulates air transport between the EU and the USA. It is essentially a matter of meeting the needs of passengers and consignors with regard to adequate air services. It is also about ensuring maximum aviation and air safety in international air transport, and it is about simplification. An additional protocol is added to this Agreement: Since Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway have joined the Treaty, we need this additional agreement between the European Union and these two countries, which contains certain procedural arrangements. These state agreements shall be approved by the National Council. So it is not about increasing air traffic, ladies and gentlemen, but about creating simplifications with practical rules. If one speaks of air traffic, then one naturally speaks of international connections. Of course, the question of how much we need international links is justified. If these links are reduced in the crisis – and most likely after – then one important thing is that security of supply in Austria is still guaranteed. To do this, we need a well-organized economy, and we also need our farmers. The economy ensures that jobs are available to people in our country, and farmers ensure that sufficient food is available in the best quality for the citizens of our country. So let us look at the economy with its many employees! Above all, let us also look at the farmers! With their work, they not only ensure a significant part of our prosperity, but also guarantee most of the quality of life and the coverage of the basic needs with their products. Remember that, ladies and gentlemen, also in your purchase decision!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e19957	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. [[17:35:34]] 18. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment 161/A by Christian Hafenecker, MA, Alois Stöger, Diplômé, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Motor Driving Act 1967 (38. KFG-Novelle) (59 d.b.) 19. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on the motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e20009	This brings us to points 18 and 19 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Deimek is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e20036	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Relying in times of crisis is, among other things, the great, strong pillar of the forces: the fire brigade. There are command and team vehicles in the fire brigade. These, if they are not firearms within the meaning of the Motor Driving Act, require a separate authorisation for each use to be able to lead blue light. This authorisation, this notice is linked to a rather complex and lengthy procedure and must be issued individually for each case of use. That's very complicated, and that's why the fire brigades want something more practical, a little simpler. We would like to live up to this desire of fire brigades with this change of law, so that the fire brigades can apply for it quickly. I think the current Corona crisis is the right time to think about administrative procedures, and I appeal to the entire federal government: We must manage to save at least one third of the administration, where it is complicated, where it rotates pointless rounds and where, among other things, it only stops our forces. That would be my appeal to the Federal Government at this point. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e20063	Weratschnig, Member of the Commission. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e20085	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! So from aviation we go to the power driving law and to the fire brigades. It has already been mentioned: When it comes to aid, the Blue Light organizations are the overflyers, and above all, of course, the fire brigades and the Red Cross. The modification of the KFG, as already mentioned, facilitates fire brigades and allows access to vehicle-specific technical data. This can save people's lives, as an assessment can therefore be carried out in a timely manner in the event of use. This is particularly important in the case of use involving battery electric cars and hydrogen cars, as well as other types of cars, so that you know exactly what you can get in there and how to prepare yourself. This is implemented via a web service: A request shall be made to access the register to obtain information. These are technical data such as brand, type, motorization, drive and access points. There are no personal data, so the data protection remains completely preserved. This protects our people, our fire brigades. In the event of an emergency, 4 800 active firearms in the country allow rapid access; 341,000 firemen, including – very po- sitiv – already 7.3 percent women. This allows more than 7,700 people to receive support, namely those in Austria who are rescued annually; more than 7,700 people are saved annually. At this point a thank you to all fire brigades! A thanks also to the companies that allow 269,000 operations a year – these are the dates of 2019 – that allow the fire brigades to have the time and the fire brigades to travel accordingly. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens and the ÖVP.]] The data query is a small building block, which, I believe, is important for the further development of technology and the fleet. – Thank you for a broad support.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e20130	Mr Köchl has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e20151	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! It is about the fire department and I would like to take the opportunity at the beginning to thank all firemen and women for the most hearty. As mayor of a small It is just important to me to thank them for what they do all year round. [[I would like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats who have spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]] The fire brigades should be allowed to access vehicle data, and the whole thing is actually very, very useful: In case of use, it is a question of asking about vehicle-specific data or the label. That, I believe, may be necessary and should also be possible. It has also been taken care not to provide any personal data, and it is worked on with regard to data security at the highest level of technology, so that it can be said that this is quite easy. Especially in the case of fires, it is necessary to be able to access them, because with electric cars and the like, as Mr Weratschnig said earlier, it is no longer that simple; that is why it is very important. I am also concerned about the communities in this crisis. I have not heard any solution at this National Council meeting and, above all, of this turquoise ÖVP, how the communities should continue in the future. In my community I need three firearms in the near future, some of which have been part of a financing plan for years. I do not know how to finance this in the future, and Mr Bundeskanzler Kurz has not answered it yet. That's not right. [[Abg. Lightenness: This is unheard of!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] - Yes! As far as health care in this Corona crisis is concerned, the communities also have a huge problem, namely to finance the whole. I am proud that in Austria it is different from in other countries in Europe that the Social Democrats have fought here in this Parliament for many years to prevent the privatisation of health care, and I say today: To a large extent, we can thank the Social Democrats for the fact that we are in this corona crisis with health care, because they have made sure that there is always a decent health care system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But now we also need to see that the communities can afford this health care, and that is a task that this government will have to solve. It is important that the economy is there that there are promotions. I can tell you two more things: An operation with us in the community has no employees and did not make any profit last year – it does not get anything, the Chamber of Commerce does not bring it together to give it money. The other has managed well, has had two or three people – to this the Chamber of Commerce says: No, you don't get anything, either, because you've made too high a profit. - That's Ka Gstel! You have to be transparent, and at least I expect you to allow this Parliament to check that you see how it is going. We call for this transparency as social democrats.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e20206	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e20227	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated many millions of Austrians in front of the screens, who take the measures of the Federal Government very seriously, as I believe, in Austria! Two requests were strongly discussed in the Transport Committee. On the proposal 386/A(E) concerning ‘Valuation markings of passenger cars – motorcycles’, I think, under intense participation or intense debate. In fact, it is not really useful, nor in terms of climate policy, so we will also vote in favour of this negative committee report on the part of our group. The fire brigade was addressed, and of course I too, as mayor of a not so small municipality in Lower Austria, would like to thank the approximately 400 000 active members, the approximately 20 500 young people working in the fire brigades, who are also available for our safety during crisis periods of Pandemie, Corona, Covid-19 daily 24 hours, seven days a week, 365 days a year. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, of course we also support this request, because the framework conditions, the infrastructure for our fire brigades, for the approximately 400 000 active members, 390 operational fire brigades, professional fire brigades, 5,000 voluntary fire brigades and many, much more, are very important – of course we do so! However, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to go into the subject matter of course also a little: My previous speaker, the mayor of Carinthia, has already mentioned it, and as mayor of a small community like Ybbs on the Danube, it is very much at my heart: ==References====External links== On April 14, our request for support to the communities – a financial suspension regarding municipal taxes and - - incomes, thank you very much – unfortunately rejected God. [[Abg. Lopatka: Share of income!]] I wonder why, ladies and gentlemen. You too have very, very many mayors in Austria – many of the 2 095 – who do not know how they now! – master the financial situation of maintaining childcare, rescue and fire brigade. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Michael Hammer.]] We – a mayor of Carinthia, mayor Andreas Kollross and my littleness – today make a self-employed request, and I am looking for you: Think about it, please! I have the numbers minus 14.9 percent in May, minus 21 to 23 percent in June. [[Keeping a font in height with a bar graph]] These are in the community in a month minus 140 000 euros! I can only say: We will have problems supporting the fire brigade, supporting rescue, supporting childcare facilities. Think about it, because the SMEs and the EPCs also need us! Where is the Lord Wägerer, who spoke about the Chambers of Workers? [[Call the ÖVP:Woiger!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits]] The Economic and Social Committee has left one billion euros and can support its 350 000 EPCs and SMEs. That would be quite, very important, because otherwise we have a massive problem in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e20292	Members of the Brandweiner have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e20314	Mr President. Appreciate women ministers! Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests at home in front of the screens! If I ask you on the street: What are the tasks of a fire brigade?, then you probably think of it as the first fire extinguishing. This is in the name and sounds logical, and the fire fight is also the oldest task of our fire brigades. In the meantime, however, the range of applications is quite larger: It ranges from traffic accidents with rescues to long operations after natural disasters. The fire brigades stand around the clock, 365 days a year ready for use to help people, and therefore I am proud to be at the voluntary fire brigade even for over 15 years. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The modern fire brigade of today is thus constantly faced with new challenges, especially the mountaining of accidented vehicles and property. This is now one of the core tasks. Only in my home country, in Lower Austria, about 10,000 vehicles are covered each year, some of which are in danger of delay. In particular, the workers are required to be rescued from persons. That's where it often counts every second. I am therefore pleased that we can hopefully provide our firemen with the current changes in the law in many situations with the necessary time so that they can also save many lives. The main point of this regulation is that fire brigades can access a database in the event of traffic accidents, in which technical data such as brand, type, year of construction and, most importantly, engineization can be requested. This allows the comrades to assess the situation quickly and, above all, to take into account possible sources of danger from the outset and to help quickly. In many countries – which has not yet been mentioned – this regulation is already in force. For example, in England, Holland, Denmark, but also with our neighbours in Switzerland, this is already implemented, and the fire brigades can query the data by means of vehicle marks. However, I should like to stress the following very important points: No personal data can be retrieved. This is not necessary for use either. In other words, data protection is guaranteed for the injured persons. Another point in the application is the blue light management on command and crew vehicles. At present, the vehicles for blue light management require approval of the head of state or outside of Lower Austria of the head of state. In order to reduce red tape, this authorisation should not be granted. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, our firemen and fire brigades, whether in the professional fire brigade or in the voluntary fire brigades, make an indispensable contribution to the safety of our people. With these changes in the law, we ensure above all the safety of our firemen and ensure that they can help quickly and quickly. I thank you for the constructive cooperation, especially for those in the committee, in the opposition. It worked perfectly. – Thank you for that! Finally, I would like to thank all the firemen, including my comrades: You do a great job all year round, you can be proud of what you do. – Thank you very much, good Wehr!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e20368	Mrs. Geessler has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e20389	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear sisters at home! I too would like to say a word of thanks for this 38. KFG-Novelle can respond quickly to the concerns of the fire brigades. This will, I hope, provide great relief in the operations. The content has already been explained several times, I do not have to go into it in detail. It is about obtaining access to certain vehicle-specific data so that, in case of use on site, it is easier to clearly identify affected vehicles, so that these parameters can also quickly and quickly access important data sets with required rescue and deactivation information, such as rescue cards, access points and much more. In the sense of the fire brigades – the colleague has mentioned it – we have also planned a second point in another KFG novel, which will be reviewed. This has not yet been done because we have noted it together with other points for the next KFG-Novelle. That means you can be sure we'll stick to the subject. It is important to us that we have good working conditions for this important part of our infrastructure especially in times of crisis. I don't want to mention it: The fire brigades are particularly affected in many respects by the climate crisis. A good part of their operations are now needed due to extreme weather events, natural disasters. So they are really very important support, not only in the event of accidents, but also in the matter of the climate crisis. I would like to take the opportunity to inform you very briefly about two issues relating to the Corona crisis and the necessary measures to ensure security of supply: A measure on security of supply in the field of freight transport: We discussed it at the last plenary session. With a package of laws, you have provided the basis for us to have a regulated, transparent and regulation-based approach to the issue of suspending the weekend driving ban. In terms of security of supply, we have suspended the weekend ban once again until 17.5. in order to be able to accompany the slow, controlled uphilling of public life and economic life. In a second area, there has been news since today regarding the controlled high-speed passenger transport. At this point, I would like to thank the social partners, the rail sector and the trade unions Vida and Younion, who have developed a common passenger charter for dealing with Covid in public transport. It was presented today and is rolled out very wide, in all transport companies. What's this about? – There are common rules to have a secure framework, a good guide to public transport behaviour before, during and after the journey in times of the Corona crisis. In addition, there is, of course, a very intensive coordination in my house with the transport operators and the transport associations, especially with the responsible countries, so that we can imitate and react accordingly to the slow rise of the economy and social life in public transport, so that we can all be safe and healthy in public transport even in times of crisis.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e20438	Mr Stark has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e20459	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated ministers! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I am standing on a freshly disinfected pult and would like to thank the Members of Parliament who look so carefully at it that we can work here under hygienic measures. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Thank you so much for looking at our health, and for being able to carry on this health to the outside! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the privilege of speaking on a day like this and in times like this about a consistently positive subject, namely the fire brigades. I join my previous speakers fully in terms of content, but concentrate exclusively on the fire brigade and not on other issues that concern the communities, although I am of course very affected by them as mayor. The fire brigades are a stable factor, including in this crisis. Let me draw a little picture: Imagine sleeping. It is in the middle of the night, it rains, it may also be cold and the wind goes, and you wake up through a siren. There are people who say: Does it have to be that you let the siren cry in the evening? - You'll wake up. In reality, 99 percent of the population have the privilege of being able to turn around and sleep again after the sound of these siren, because a small percentage, namely our firemen and women, are going to be able to help other people in distress. For them it is in this situation, in the case of an accident at night, especially on three things, namely: saving first life; looking at one's own safety; and thirdly, it comes at every second and every minute. In this situation, of course, information is irreplaceable, which the firemen at the accident site expect, because new technologies also bring new dangers. We are now creating the legal basis for the future use of firearms on a technical basis which allows them to use Place of use already have all the information they need for safe use. In this sense, I would like to thank all those who have negotiated this issue. I would like to thank the parliamentary parties for being able to conclude this issue unanimously, as I hope. I would also like to take the House's thanks to the regions for the fire brigades that deserve this thanks. I think that's a small contribution we can make for our fire brigades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e20513	I call Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e20535	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It has already been explained in detail that we are now facilitating the work of the firearms with this KFG amendment and ensuring the safety of people in use. Why do we need these innovations? – It is about the fact that some things are changing; technology is changing, especially as regards road traffic. Today, there are also electric cars, hybrid cars and natural gas and hydrogen-powered cars in the area of cars. It is therefore necessary to obtain technical data as quickly as possible in order to be able to react to the use of accidents. So far, the fire brigade has not been allowed to do so. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] I can explicitly remember an incident that occurred in Tyrol in 2019, when a Tesla hit a tree and caught fire. The incident has triggered a wide-ranging discussion. If such a Tesla burns, you need up to 11,000 gallons of water to erase. Considering that a firecraft can hold an average of between 2,000 and 3,000 gallons of water, it becomes clear what a huge challenge that is. By the way, you have to react as quickly and as targeted as possible. The greatest risk comes from the batteries, from the chemicals and acids. If an electric car battery is burning, it can lead to a chain reaction. In the future, on-site service forces can enter the car's identification mark into the laptop and obtain the technical data for the car. No personal data can be retrieved. The rescuers can therefore immediately decide at the site of operation which deletion methods are the right ones. All in all, I think we're in agreement. As my previous speakers have pointed out, it is about facilitating our fire brigades, it is about security. For example, I would like to add Tesla: It took weeks to properly store the vehicle. There is currently only one container in Austria, which is located in Schwaz, where you can even store such vehicles. So we're talking about big challenges. The fire brigade will face these challenges and we can support them with a contribution today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e20581	Next, Mr Joachim Schnabel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e20610	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! In the entrance a few words to the fire brigades: For over 30 years, I have been a member of a voluntary fire brigade and an audited fire brigade commander, and I would like to stress once again what the previous speakers have said about these two changes of the KFG. That's important and right. I would also like to thank the fire brigades in my region, who, during this difficult period of the Corona pandemic, have maintained the ability to operate and maintain their willingness to use. Unfortunately, we have had many large-scale events in our region in recent weeks, and only through the caution of the national fire brigade associations, the district fire brigade associations, the individual fire brigade commanders and commanders, has it been possible to maintain the willingness and the high degree of security for the firemen and women. Thank you very much for that! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] A few words about TOP 19, the request of the Freedom Party, which for the time being – as I was told as a new one here in Parliament – calls for a change mark between passenger cars and motorcycles. We have to ask ourselves why this did not happen to the last two StVO novels when the Minister of Transport came from the ranks of the Free Party. Apparently, it's so – I guess that – that this isn't technically easy. As we all know, the registration marks on the passenger cars are rather in length, but those on the motorcycles are rather squarely executed. So how should we implement this with a change mark? How can you prevent abuse? Once a weekend, the motorcycle is on tour, and at the same time the car is on the go for shopping. How can one prevent this abuse? We have not been presented with any solution to this problem. It should also be noted that all car insurers would suffer from a deterioration because of the fact that motorcyclists – and this is unfortunately fact – belong to a risk group and that other liability insurance premiums are required. As I said, I am also a self-trained fire brigade commander and have had to experience many missions myself in my 30 years of use, also very tragic. Unfortunately, I have also had to store dead people, namely in the event of motorcycle accidents, fatal accidents, and I say to you one thing: Instead of introducing a change mark, it would be really important to animated motar wheel drivers at the beginning of a motorcycle season to take a safety course to ensure that there is as little traffic accidents, accidents and the dead as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e20654	There is now no mention of this. That concludes the debate. Does anyone wish a final word on the part of reporting? - That's not the case. The vote will take place at the end of the sitting. [[18:06:38]] 20. Point Report of the Committee on Justice on the Government Template (39 e.g._Other Organiser Declaration by the Republic Austria on the adoption of the accessions of Belarus, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Honduras, Ukraine and Uzbekistan to the Convention on Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction (94 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e20689	We reach the 20th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Neßler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e20716	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! All children have rights. These rights are laid down in the UN Convention on Children's Rights – ratified by Austria in 1992. One of these rights is the right to parental care. Each child has the right to live with both parents, to be raised by both parents. This right is granted to the child if it is forced by child abduction to leave the usual place of residence. That is why Austria signed the Hague Child Abduction Convention in 1988. Unfortunately, international child abductions are part of our reality. The children are usually dragged from one parent to another. That is why international action is needed to preserve the integrity of individual states and to help mothers, fathers and children, especially children, out of their powerlessness, and that is why the accession declarations by other Contracting States are important in order to comply with the Hague Child Abduction Convention. Children cannot defend their rights themselves. We have to do that for them whenever we can. We just have to focus on children, young adults, because they don't have a big lobby behind them; we have to be this lobby. I would like to take the opportunity to draw attention to the fact that children, young people, are particularly affected by the Corona crisis. Your social contacts are reduced. They see their friends, their trustees not, they are alone in learning and also limited in their freedom of movement. The increase in domestic violence is particularly affecting children. Because of the present situation, they have no way of escape from domestic violence in the family, they are alone in the situation. If children do not attend a school or a kindergarten, violence will not be noticed. That is why it is all the more important that the neighborhood be attentive and respond if the child's well-being is at risk. For this reason, there is also the StoP – districts without partner force – initiative by the Association of Autonomous Austrian Women's Houses, which would like to raise awareness of this important topic. On the homepage you will find information materials, important telephone numbers and also hangouts for the climbing houses, and I ask you to distribute this information, because everyone and everyone can help. Be alert, for listening away can sometimes end fatally! Finally, I would like to thank all the organisations, associations, NGOs and child protection institutions for their important and indispensable work in this difficult situation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e20762	The next speaker is Mr Harald Doorer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e20783	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is about international child abduction, especially in connection with the care dispute between parents. A parent abducts the child, and the rule of law, who now provides the child with the best possible care, will naturally deal with this abduction. In the rule of law, it is clear that the Court of First Instance will decide. The SPÖ clearly acknowledges the rule of law. The courts decide objectively in the interests of the child. It is about the usual place where the child lives, where it has its food point, it is about where the child attends the school or kindergarten, and about social contacts. What we are deciding on today is further ratification; six other countries want to join the Hague Convention, which regulates international administrative cooperation in this respect. For Austria, the accession of two European countries is particularly exciting, Ukraine and Belarus. Especially with Ukraine, there have always been problems in the case of custody disputes, whether the children actually have their food point there, as the court has decided. It promotes legal certainty that six other countries join. The SPÖ welcomes this and we see this as progress in the fight against these international child abductions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e20813	The next speaker is Mrs Gudrun Kugler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e20835	Madam President! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll put it together a little bit: The Hague Convention on Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction is a international treaty. Every new country that wants to join must be accepted by any other country, and we are doing so today for those countries. As we are members of the European Union, the Council must also agree that we agree, and that has already happened – so much to the process. The name of the Convention has now fallen several times: international child abduction. This name, however, brings us to the wrong ferry, because in reality it is about child withdrawal. It is easier to imagine what it is all about, namely that where care is shared or where visiting rights exist, children are brought to another country, with which contact is no longer given, the child is therefore deprived of the other parent. If many countries join this agreement – and there are now far more than 100 – then there is greater legal certainty for binational couples in particular. Therefore, if both states, which belong to the two parents, have ratified the Convention, the legal certainty means that decisions are recognised. It is said that the authorities work together to ensure that the procedures go much faster, and that a return of the child is normally possible within six weeks. This is important so that you do not create the opportunity to set your own right by simply continuing a child, so that Then the parent who has already received from the court that he is allowed to see the child no longer has this possibility. As my previous speaker Mr Voor said, this agreement is particularly interesting for the European countries concerned. From countries such as the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Honduras, Uzbekistan, Belarus, there are only a few hundred people living in Austria, but there are more than 11,000 people from Ukraine, and there are more and more such incidents. As Mr Neßler said quite correctly: What we are doing here, namely the Hague Convention itself, but also that we welcome new countries, is in line with the wish expressed in the Convention on Children's Rights. There is a clear inside again – and I underline what you said, Mrs Colleague – that the Convention recognises that a child has a right to both parents. This is also a very important principle for us in other areas of justice: There is a right to both parents and both parents have the responsibility for this common child. Having a right is not always the same as getting right. That is why I am pleased that the Minister of Justice is here today, since, after the adoption of the accession of those States to this Convention, there is the right to the paper, but there are still problems with the implementation. There are still practical problems in other countries where these countries have already become members, i.e. have already been adopted. Once again, it is up to the authorities themselves to ensure the right of the children concerned to the government, in particular the Ministry of Justice, as well as the parents concerned. I'm sure that's in very good hands with you, Mrs. Justice Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e20883	Mr Johannes Margreiter is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e20904	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers in front of the televisions! The previous speakers – Mr Neßler, colleague Kugler – have already explained what this international convention on child abduction is about. So it doesn't have anything to do with kidnapping and soldering, but it concerns something that unfortunately often happens that parents just spend their children abroad in order to remove them from common care. I can tell from practice how this works because this intergovernmental agreement always comes to bear Austrian lawyers for us when a child is sent to Austria. If a foreign child is to be returned to the home state from a Contracting State, according to this Convention, lawyers are automatically ordered in Austria to speak for that child in a way that it can return home. The procedure is precisely regulated and also provides for a trial to be brought before the court. The subject of negotiation is a bit difficult at the moment. We also have our Covid exception in the field of justice. Allow me, on this occasion on behalf of my group, to thank very much all the judicial staff who serve in these difficult weeks. Especially on these issues, where there is considerable time pressure – and these are especially the family issues – it is very important that the court also works under exceptional conditions; and that is what it does. After the world's borders have been blocked, there will not be so many cases of kidnapping, but let me explain a little of the problem that we are currently negotiating in the Austrian judicial system. It's supposed to be after 30. In April, the interruption of the time limit which we have decided in the law will also result in the resumption of the negotiating operation. The courts are now preparing for this, and there are two occasions for the Minister of Justice to prepare – greet God, Mrs. Minister! These occasions contain regulations which I believe are very, very questionable. The appeals are addressed to all judges and all the court presidents, and they provide that regulations are to be incorporated into the house orders of the courts, which regulate access to the court. Among other things, it is also envisaged that the security staff, which controls all court entrances and controls only on weapons, will also carry out health investigations. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, here in the House, if you do not belong to medical professions: If you are commissioned to diagnose obvious respiratory symptoms of any severity, such as dry cough, shortness of breath, shortness of breath, and apparent non-specific general symptoms, such as sneezing, sniffing, and possibly fever, would you be able to see this? - Not me. [[Abg. Steinacker: Cough yes! Coughs and fever, yes!]] But that's exactly what this decree now requires from the security staff to access the court. That's what we're talking about people from Securitas, Group 4, who can already search after-weapons, but I'm wondering: How are they supposed to do medical diagnostics without any medical training? The particularly serious thing is that it has this staff in hand to fail entry to court. Ladies and gentlemen, that can't be the case. There is a fundamental right intervention which, in my opinion, does not have sufficient legal legitimacy. I respect the concern that the judicial staff must be protected only: if this is not carried out by skilled staff, this protection does not help at all. This is an eye wiper that gives the staff a sense of security that does not use anything at all. We have once debated a decree, the so-called Easter Decree; it has been taken back. I would urge you, Mrs Justice Minister, to: Review You have these occasions, because this can't work so that a completely inappropriate and not competent staff decides, on the basis of health criteria, whether I can enter the court building or not! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Consider this, you have the same size as Mr. Federal Minister Anschober and change it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e20947	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. The vote will take place at the end of the agenda. [[18:23:07]] 21. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 166/A(E) by Mr Mag. Selma Yildirim, colleagues with regard to the creation of a new criminal provision on ‘upskitting’ and the prohibition of nude photos without the knowledge or consent of those concerned (95, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e20985	We'll get to the 21st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Harald Stefan was the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e21013	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There's a consensual thing here. At the initiative of Mrs Yildirim von der SPÖ, a subject is addressed here, which seems to be a common problem by all parties, namely the unsolicited voyeuristic photography of persons, called upskiring. Of course, it is primarily about women being unwantedly photographed, but I think we should, in fact, continue to do so. It is not only women who may be humiliated, but it must be protected, above all, minors. This is a special concern that we want to bring in here too. So it is about the fact that there is no criminal record at present when you produce such photographs and then perhaps publish them. An example was a football team, a girl football team who was photographed by her coach while showering, and he then spread it. It turned out then that it was not possible to interest this coach, at least not criminal, because there is no criminal record. Civil law does not sufficiently widen and data protection does not really take place. That is, we believe it is important to create a criminal record. As I have said, all the parties agree, and today we are taking the first step with the joint motion for a resolution to create the appropriate criminal record and, hopefully, to decide here soon.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e21043	Next speaker: Mrs Meri Dioski. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e21064	I think it's my fifth speech and the name has never been correctly said: Disoski! Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! It's detesting, embarrassing and deeply hostile to women – I'm talking about secretly photographing or filming under clothes and skirts. Such photographs often find their way on online platforms or on porn pages; the photographers, mostly women and girls, are well recognizable. To date, the legal basis has mostly been missing for the persecution of these attacks. In the Coalition Convention, we have established a so-called upsizing ban, and a corresponding request was unanimously decided in the Justice Committee. I am very pleased that Mr Zadić, Minister of Justice, is now creating a legal framework. Baseline supported. No, it's not a cavalier's crime when a person's privacy is involved, and no, it's not damn right to photograph and film women without her consent, and then put them online. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As a woman's spokesman in my group, however, I now allow myself to use my speaking time to measure the current situation for women's policy. The Corona crisis has been leading us for weeks: Women are carriers of society! or otherwise formulated: Nothing goes without us! Whether in food trade or in production, cleaning, in crisis centres, in women's homes, in the health and care sector – the proportion of women among employees in these sectors is usually about 80 percent. Women therefore carry the most important systems and make a large part of them to combat the virus, but without being rewarded accordingly. Thank you and one-off premiums are beautiful signs of recognition and appreciation, but no rent can be paid. We urgently need a higher wage and a reduction in working time. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The corona crisis hits women particularly hard and strengthens existing inequalities, especially when it comes to the uneven distribution of unpaid work. Without this unpaid work in childcare, in the household and the like, this crisis would not be voting, without home schooling – we have already heard that today – nor would we. The current crisis leads to an increasing burden for women, and the longer this extraordinary state takes, the more urgent it is and it will also be a concrete roadmap for the further gradual and gradual opening of kindergartens, elementary educational facilities and schools – so I am particularly pleased that we will hear from the Minister responsible on Friday. Regardless of that, I would like to remind you once again: There is an existing offer of elementary educational institutions and schools to be used – yes, of course, of all those who need it, especially those who are single. 94 percent of these are women. Please use this offer! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Scheucher-Pichler.]] I also urge the Heads of State to ensure that these services are truly guaranteed and guaranteed. Discrimination and inequalities are not linked to a break during the crisis. That's what we see now, and I'll remind everyone you sit here that we're on 20th. On March 1, all of them voted in applause to the so-called system owners in the Hohenhaus. This applause should follow actions, as concrete measures must be taken. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] – The Corona Thousand is a nice one-off bonus, you can talk about it, but it doesn't change the structure either. I'll finish. I would like to draw your attention to something that has been far too short. Many women who work in these so-called system-related professions, ladies and gentlemen, have a so-called migration background. This is particularly true in the 24-hour care. In the new family allowance scheme, these women were treated unfairly in the previous year. At that time they were harassed, today they are supposed to keep our care system from the collapse and we fly it in with charter flights. In the past, they have been thanked. That is why I should like to thank you very sincerely.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e21155	Excuse me, Mrs Disoski! Mrs Selma Yildirim is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e21179	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Madam Minister, of course I also warmly welcome you. This report by the Legal Affairs Committee deals with upsizing. We've heard what it's all about. It is therefore a new form of violence against women and girls that is becoming increasingly involved. The aim of the proposal that I was allowed to make for our group, by the way, for the second time – in the last period, unfortunately, Mr Jarolim's request was postponed – is to preserve the dignity of people and protect girls and women from sexual violence. It is now described as intention, but of course it takes a little further. It is a motion for a resolution. But since we are in a debate on justice, I would like to say a few words about it. I can predict that in this House, in the House, in the interests of the citizens who have to comply with the laws we decide here, we should generally move at a high level in the legal culture. Our goal is ultimately as flawless laws as possible, and if mistakes happen, it must be corrected as soon as possible. This also applies in the current crisis situation and of course this also applies to the Federal Chancellor. If fundamental and freedom rights of citizens are severely restricted in such a way as this has happened in recent weeks, then the concern for the rule of law and the separation of violence must not be repudiated by a blatant remark. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] But back to violence. In this House, the protection of women and girls and the protection of violence should be of particular concern to us as a whole, in general and in any specific form. During the Corona crisis, with its initial limitations, domestic violence is a particular danger for women. We must not ignore this. The increase in the number of calls on consulting shotlines underlines this, and I suspect that the dark count is higher. We must be vigilant and careful and should do everything we can to protect women and children in the family and everywhere else from violence. But back to the request: I do not need to put it further, we have tabled this request because the current legal situation does not provide for criminal provisions. I confess to do so with a certain drops of advertising, because as extensive as I was allowed to bring it in for the SPÖ, it is not in the decision-making position or is not decided. However, I am counting on the fact that a good solution will ultimately come in the further debate. I would like to thank you now for this very factual and very serious discussion, including you, Mrs Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e21225	Mrs. Alma Zadić has now spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e21252	Madam President. Honourable Members! Dear Seers! I am pleased that we are dealing with this request here today, and I am also pleased that the Members of all the political groups in the Committee on Justice and Citizens' Rights have adopted this request unanimously, because this request is important. Upskirting – we have heard it several times now – is a disgusting phenomenon. Upskitting not only violates the intimate atmosphere, but is also often used as a means of printing to force certain performances. Now it is true that we have in the law regulations that cover, for example, the continued harassment by means of telecommunications or a computer system. At the time – in 2015 – it was thought that upskirting might fall. But now we have seen that this is not enough, because it does not include the one-off harassment, nor is the production and possession of such images punished. It has also been found that administrative criminal law is not sufficient in this respect. As you know, at the beginning of March I met an expert group to deal with the issue of hatred and violence on the web. I have, of course, also commissioned that we should look at the protection of images, and I hope that you will be able to deal with them today. Unfortunately, the expert group's meeting activity had to be temporarily interrupted due to the security measures related to Covid-19. I can assure you, however, and I promise you that the issue of hatred and violence will be dealt with further on the web and that we will, of course, accept this issue as soon as possible. [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as of SPÖ and NEOS representatives.]] The corona crisis is present, it's busy with us, of course; it's going to take us a long time, and it's got us very busy. However, I would also like to assure you that we have many projects in the area of justice, we have done a lot of things that we want to and will bring to implementation, and this includes the ban on upsizing. I would like to thank all Members on this occasion, including for the stimulating discussion in the Justice Committee, and I am pleased to be able to implement this request in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e21301	Next speaker: Mrs Johanna Jachs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e21322	Madam President. Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! Modern technology is truly curse and blessing at the same time: a blessing when I think of the last weeks in which hundreds of thousands of Austrians were able to change to Home Office within a few days; but it is also a curse because attacks on privacy and the intimate atmosphere are happening more and more quickly and easily. In seconds we can turn off the camera tone at our phones, and it doesn't take a lot of skill that we can take photos of other people. Ladies and gentlemen, I have followed the Instagram story carefully by some of you, and I think I have seen such spontaneous shots from here today on Instagram. The modern technology, the smartphones, however, is also increasingly used to record upskirts. We've heard what upskirts are. This is the secret photography under the skirt, under a woman's dress, and these photos often land on porn pages or on other online platforms. Of course, this happens without the consent of women. We in Austria have no ban on upskirt. We have already discussed in the Committee on Justice how such a ban can take place. It was discussed whether this could be about the judicial criminal law in which we have the Ultima ratio principle, or by administrative criminal law, where we can help more quickly and perhaps unbureaucratically. Thank you, Mrs Bundesminister, for taking these suggestions into the expert group. I am sure you will present us with a good proposal. I am also pleased that this ban on upsizing is one of the few countries that will decide on such a ban. There are only four countries worldwide that already have such a ban. So it's nice that we agree. I spoke at first of modern technology, now I want to make a historical swivel: The first upskirt was made in 1767 by the painter Fragonard, a rococomal. The picture “The swing” – in French l’escarpolette – shows a young man who enjoys the sight of the shimmering woman’s leg because the wind blows away the skirt. So you see, upskirting is a socially traditional phenomenon. I am pleased that, 250 years later, namely in 2020, we will hopefully be able to take a ban on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e21371	Reported as follows: Mrs Henrike Brandstötter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e21395	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear spectators at home in front of the screens and because of me today also on Pornhub, because also there these spanner videos often land! Who does she not know – especially women –, unpleasant, intrusive views in the swimming pool or in the gym? One is suppressed in his intimate atmosphere, and that is unpleasant – and it is allowed. If the look goes through a camera too, one is secretly filmed, then that is not forbidden either. Spanners can take us into account in situations they do absolutely nothing about: There is the coach who secretly films his youth team in the dressing cabin, there is the Airbnb rental woman who installs a spycam and takes her guests in bed or bathroom, there is the boss who films the women's toilet, and his employees know nothing about it. Spannervideos have already found entry into the philosophy books. The media philosopher Charles S. uses it as an example to illustrate his thesis of the liquid of information. This means that information today can be very fast anywhere and spread very quickly on many channels. This makes a very big difference especially with spanner videos and other attacks on our privacy, which has not yet been taken into account in the Austrian legal situation. It is currently about audio recordings in the 120s paragraph of the StGB. When one made the law in 1975, one probably had spy and hearing scenarios in mind, one thought of discreet deals that were spyed out by dark figures with straight microphones and recorded on tapes. So if you don't make a listening protocol on magnetic tapes, but with your smartphone secretly filming women under the skirt, you haven't got to worry so far and risk a maximum of a reference from the data protection authority. It's overcrowded! Today, film cameras with usable microphones are omnipresent and in every smartphone. Drones and Spycams can be ordered online in the special offer. These devices, these high-resolution smartphone cameras make it easy for tensioners. It's been mostly spanners lately, not spies, whose secret recordings have given rise to displeasure. Such interventions have not yet been relevant, and this is absurd, because when people are secretly filmed when they are involved in their private and intimate atmosphere, the consequences are serious. Other countries have explained this earlier. In Germany, for the violation of the highest personal life area by images, a term of imprisonment of up to two years threatens. I am glad that we are going to look into Austria today and finally remove a thick layer of dust from this paragraph and that we have also recognised in Parliament that there is a gap in the level of protection. That is why we support this motion for a resolution so that unwanted filming and photography can finally be punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e21437	Next speaker: Mrs Petra Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e21459	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Upskirting is one of the gender-specific forms of violence against women, of which there are very many. Violence against women has many different faces, whether it be physical violence, mental violence or structural violence. Very often she is also klandestin, secretly, hidden, and very often she goes along with the irrational phenomenon that the victim feels guilty, which is just as good as never. What is probably inherent in any kind of gender-specific violence or what is the reason for almost any gender-specific type of violence is that there is still quite an uneven relationship of power between the sexes, that women have less power than men, that women have structurally weaker status than men, and that women are also very often simply dependent on men and are thus in a dependency relationship that is often simply taking advantage of them. Structural violence is often reflected in the fact that people – especially women – are given rights. For example, when upsizing, this would be the right Integrity, integrity; not only in the sense of physical integrity, but also the right to intimacy. This agreement of women's rights often concerns sexual and reproductive rights. We must also be very vigilant in the crisis in which we are now in Austria, but we must also take a look at the borders. For example, I think it is very scary that in Poland the corona crisis is being misused to turn back the rights of women who have struggled hard and stubbornly over many years. On the one hand, efforts are being made to reduce the already very restrictive right to abortion in Poland again, on the other hand, the right to evidence-based sexual education in school is threatened with three years' imprisonment. These two legislative projects have now been rejected into the committee, so we have a bit of a break. I know from a video conference today with a Polish Member and an activist, how important it is for her to know about our international solidarity, to know that there are other European countries behind them and also to support their rights. I would therefore ask you to have a critical and clear eye on the return of sexual and reproductive rights in Austria, but also elsewhere in Europe. Finally, I would also like to thank Selma Yildirim for bringing this really important initiative back to Parliament. It's drilling hard boards. I am very pleased that we will now drill together and hopefully soon pass a good law. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e21504	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. The vote will take place at the end of the sitting. [[18:46:52]] 22. Point Report by the Scientific Committee on Amendment 274/A by Mr Mag. Dr. Martin Graf, colleagues on a federal law amending the 2014 High School and Higher School Law (88 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e21540	We'll get to the 22nd. Agenda item. There was no reporting. Mr Martin Graf is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e21568	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Abg. Lightenness: This is not going to be a good speech now!]] – Obviously a prophet, the colleague! There is only more time available. Yes, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a subject which, of course, many people are always working here in the House, namely: What will the Austrian University Schooling do in the future? What is she doing right now? – That might have been thought of as a headline. We have tried to reform it, because we believe that the Austrian high schooling as a whole – at the top of course the green, but also together with the socialist, but of course also with the majority, with the black students – is exercising a very one-sided perception of the general political mandate, and we would have liked to have legalized it. This is not taken into account. In addition, we have also thought about the funding of the ÖH, which is paid by all students, in order to ultimately attract thoughts against certain groups of other students with diffamations, with protest waves, with outrages and many more in the field. We are of the opinion that this should be organized differently. Now there will certainly be hundreds of arguments again. I've been a bit disappointed that we haven't had a longer discussion to take this carrier rocket once, so we say: What could we do? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] That is now simply being rejected. There will, of course, be a thousand reasons for this. When I look at the development of the last few weeks, I have to say that I am almost in favour of the fact that this report is not at all acceptable, because it is actually obsolete, Mr Federal Minister, because you reject constructive reform steps today and believe that the Austrian University School is doing its work 100% top. What is reality? What's happening now? – At the moment, due to the Corona/Covid-19 crisis, fundamental and freedom rights are being removed without number, and of course also at Austrian universities. The Federal Minister has a regulation in consideration, which de facto eliminates democratization at the Austrian universities – if one wants to say so salopp in the short speaking time – from the Senate, academic duties to the rectorate, that is to say to the executive. A few people today have already said that a lot of things have fascist trains. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] We don't want to go that far, but: Where is the Austrian high schooling with their exhilaration? Now she would have a field of activity and could show what money she is worth. – You don't hear anything, you don't see anything, they're all happy. Anxiously, they sit at home, take assembly bans on sale, take the dedemocracy into account, take on purchase that the Senate is disarmed. Mr Blimlinger will probably also find it a good thing to do, because she is involved in this action, which is being made by the Federal Government. Actually, I have to say that our request was far too little to a large extent – far too little to do! An OH in its present state is getting rid of itself. We don't need to get rid of her, she killed herself. It does nothing more than perhaps cash its functional fees – for a non-performance, for a performance that it does not provide. There are no qualified opinions, no more desire, nothing. So it does not even take the general political mandate in this direction, just because the Greens are in the government. This shows how justified our criticism of the Austrian high school has already been, and now even the evidence is being provided. In this sense, I am sad that we do not come to a reform. But we will not rest on this point, Mr Federal Minister, and will make further proposals over the next few weeks and months. At some point it will be that the steady drop will hollow the stone and we will be successful in the end. There is an acute need for action in this fatal change in the Austrian high schooling in the current situation. It's just too little if you just go against right students. This is not a legitimation for the Austrian high school, you have to learn at last. And perhaps the Austrian high school is now also exercising its mandate when it comes to disassemblying fundamental and freedom rights and also stealing at the conditions of autonomy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Mr Federal Minister, you will certainly say that all of your reform steps are limited to the crisis in time, but we do not know when this will be the end today and in the last few weeks. We already hear that this can take up to 2024, until 2022, until 2021. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Mr. Anschober says that we have to expect a long time. I assume that it will last longer than we love, that we will have to buy such conditions for a long time. [[Abg. Lightenness: So the speech...!]] I hold for myself: In the condition in which the Austrian high school is currently located, it is worthless and has turned off itself, because you can actually abolish it.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e21650	Next item is the report by Mr Nico Marchetti. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e21682	Madam President. Dear government team! Ladies and gentlemen! There is the psychological phenomenon that one is excited about things that are annoying one at one's own, and I believe that in this case it happened, because you are excited about the contribution of the ÖH to crisis management, but I would not have discovered the insanity of FPÖ's contribution to crisis management. So maybe you should hold the mirror before you get upset. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Let's talk about what it's all about. - One point: OH contribution. We're talking about 20,20 euros. Of this, 70 cents are lost due to accident insurance – I think we all think it makes sense – so 19.50 euros are left. That's 16 cents a day, that's the order of magnitude. Of these, 87 percent are in the individual university representations and mainly in service offers such as consultations for semesters abroad, for exams, learning groups and so on, and so on – you might find that useful – and 13 percent in the Federal ÖH that you have been trained. These are the sizes. I believe, in principle, that the construction is very good that you pay 16 cents a day for service, an accident insurance and a democratically legitimate representation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] This, I think, is basically a good deal. What we agree with is that we naturally need to question the use of these funds and that they must also be appropriate. Now some ÖH representatives have dissolved reserves, for example ÖH University of Graz, 200 000 euros which they make available to students in the context of a social pot; from these Means we're talking about. That's, I think, a sensible thing. The ÖH University of Vienna has also announced that it makes an amount of EUR 250 000 flow into a social pot. In fact, it has only given 125 000 euros in this social pot and the rest – this has been revealed today – in any other projects, in political projects such as with Antifa. Of course I can't. We have a control mechanism, which is then reported, the AG has also reported a statement of facts to the Control Committee, and as long as this control mechanism works, it is, I think, good if we maintain the system and do not give way to a problem. For the general political mandate: In the course of the research, I found a funny detail. There were demonstrations at the time because of the construction of the Hainburger Au, and there the ÖH worked very strongly, among other things. For example, Hubert Gorbach, then Bundesobmann of the RFJ, also participated in the press conference at the time during the uprising. – Perhaps only as a small input to your historian's commission, what it actually had with the general political mandate at FPÖ. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to focus briefly on the current situation, as you did. On Friday, there will be a press conference of the Minister, in which open student law issues, student promotion issues will be clarified for universities and universities. Many things are being clarified for the universities, which they will then also fill with life. Then there will finally be security for the students, which will be theirs in the next few weeks and months. I am very pleased to announce one thing that we can already announce today: There is a solution to the family aid which Mrs Minister has now presented. For the family allowance for students, there will now be an additional tolerance semester and an extension of the reference period. That is, we have come a step closer to the goal of a neutral semester. This security is available for students, and the rest will be clear on Friday. I think we're on a good path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e21754	Next speaker: Mrs Andrea Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e21776	Ladies and gentlemen! We are now discussing the proposal of the Liberal Party for the third time. We have had a first reading and we have discussed it in the Committee, and we are of the opinion beyond the invoking group that the ÖH should not be cut into its basic elements, namely as regards the general political mandate you want to withdraw from high school; They also want to cut them in their financial base. Today, you have also expressed quite clearly what it really is about: From your point of view, it is simply about abolishing the representation of Austrian students. – And then you sit down and complain about democratic deficits?- Oh, my God! So much more cynical is not going on, Mr. Graf. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It already gives the impression that something should be abolished that is politically not facing you. There is obviously the background that your group has very bad results in the elections. [[Abg. Martin Graf: It doesn't work!]] What do you do? Then you'll just get rid of it. [[Abg. Martin Graf: Nobody's going to the election! What is the level of voting participation?]] Fortunately, this does not correspond to the concept of democracy policy here in the house, except for you as an exception, and that is also very good and important. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Count.]] - That on your request. I would also like to address the letter that the members of the Scientific Committee have received from the chairmen of the Senate, as regards the regulation which the Federal Minister has now sent to the Council for an opinion. I would also like to stress, from my point of view, that the democratic structure at the university, the balance of the competences, the power structure, if you want to do so, between the Senate as the chosen organ at the universities, the universities and the rectors, is a system well thought out in the university law, which should not be thrown over the pile as easily as possible, and that an emergency situation should not be exploited by means of an emergency regulation, in order here to move the conditions as we seem to be. Minister! Maybe you can comment here. The matter is in review, it can also be taken back. I think the Senate chairmen, also supported by the high school, are making good arguments as to why this is superfluous and should not be made. Thirdly and last: The colleague in front of me has just mentioned that you, Mr Federal Minister, will be giving a press conference in the next few days, in which you will make public decisions on such important issues for universities. I would You ask and ask, Mr Federal Minister, to take the opportunity here and inform Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e21841	Next: Mrs Eva Blimlinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e21862	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It's a bit of a situation like this: “And daily the Murmeltier greets”. I do not know how often the FPÖ has tried to deny the ÖH the political mandate. I don't think it'll work, I hope. If you look at the situation at the moment, you have to say that the Austrian student community is really a supporter in the crisis. She is trying to get students, who get out of many jobs, currently have no work, because they are partly minorly busy. You don't get any money from the hardening fund. There are toughening funds for the ÖHs, the colleague has already mentioned this. Once again, it turns out that the Austrian student community is really a central institution, equipped with a political mandate, the universities, and that is what they are always supposed to do. In reality, these ridiculous 15 euros are actually to be seen in such a way that they say: Why should this not be more so that work can be an even better, even more comprehensive one? But let me also refer to the upcoming three regulations from the field of science, I refer to my predecessor Andrea Kuntzl: Not all that is regulated is an intervention in autonomy! Here the excitement comes essentially from the Senates, who feel circumcised here in their autonomy – in brackets: Senates have no autonomy, only universities have autonomy. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Tashner.]] Of that, the Senate is part of it, but safe- He doesn't have autonomy himself. There is, of course, no intervention in the teaching at all, there is only one intervention regarding the dates. This is the only intervention, and it makes sense to make this intervention in order to have the same opportunities for the students – and this is what I am at the ÖH again about. It can't be that each university makes its own schedules. This is completely absurd in the current situation. It is therefore very good that there are these three regulations; they are among the few regulations, among which there has been a broad review, which many have reviewed and which have received many points. So the Senate is supposed to calm down a bit. It is for the good, and it is better, it is regulated by regulation, because the students then have security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e21907	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. The vote will take place at the end of the sitting. [[19:04:21]] 23. Point Report by the Committee on Education on Amendment 145/A(E) by Mrs Eva Maria Holzleitner, BSc, colleagues on climate change, nature and environmental protection in school (96 d.a.) 24. Point Report by the Committee on Education on Amendment No 216/A(E) by Mr Hermann Brückl, MA, colleagues on German as a ‘Puss language’ (97 d.b.) 25. Point Report by the Committee on Education on motions for resolutions 322/A(E) by Mr Mag. Martina Künsberg Sarre, colleagues in the department of cross-country students (98 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e21969	This brings us to the agenda items 23 to 25, on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Hermann Brückl was the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e21996	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! Ladies and gentlemen. We are now discussing, among other things, the request concerning ‘German as ‘Puss language’’. We are already discussing it here for the second time – we had a first reading – and we can vote on it today. Like last time, I would like to start with the words: “School is a place of education, school is a place of learning social skills”. It has been – since Many years now – becoming a place of integration massively, and with it, of course, also the place for learning the German language. It is extremely important that we make it possible to impart the best possible knowledge in everyday school life to those who are struggling with the German language. Learning the German language serves to improve communication, improve integration and improve performance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] It is this crisis, Mr President, that proves to us how important it is for our children to be well-informed in the German language. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] It is not just that many children are not accessible at home, it is often also so that the technical equipment for home learning is missing that the technical infrastructure is not available. But above all, there are always language problems, language problems in the parents' home. The experts confirm this, please. Here the children simply lack the support of the teachers in learning. In this context, I should like to draw attention to the figures of the Austrian statistics – I have already done this before, and I do it again – which are figures of a statistics from 2018/2019: In Vienna, 59 percent of all pupils do not speak German in everyday life, and in Vorarlberg there are 32 percent and in the Austrian average there are 31 percent. There is therefore an acute need for action here, and that is why you should support this request. I would also ask the Members of this House to support the request that we have tabled today, together with the SPÖ and NEOS, to present a level plan for school openings. In recent weeks there have been many announcements, many undetermined announcements, but there have been no clear decisions from the Ministry. That's why I'm wondering: What are these many press conferences for? Perhaps they should only serve to spread fear, fear and panic with the government vocabulary, such as “new normality”, or possibly these press conferences are only used to stage the government. High House, dear government, it is time for you to return – not to new normality, but to our usual normality. Let reason rule again!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e22056	Next speaker: Mr Nico Marchetti. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e22081	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address the curriculum reform, for which a request is made by all of us today, i.e. a joint request. We have been working on this project for a year and a half, on very different packages, especially for primary education, that is, the primary school, and secondary education, the lower level. It is particularly important – and I would like to stress this once again – that we also get into the subject of political education through this curriculum reform. I think there is a great consensus here anyway; that is also very important to me. That is why, on the initiative of Evi Holzleitner, we have now jointly put this into a proposal, that we also anchor the topic of climate education in addition to environmental education and sustainability as a teaching principle and also maintain this curriculum reform. This is a very useful thing, so we are I hope that we will have a major interlocutory speech in this House in several areas of this great project. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I would also like to address the current situation. With regard to this, one really annoys me: Federalism is a cornerstone of our Republic, and all the opposition parties say what they do not feel for a heavy love for our constitution, but in federalism the love of the constitution somehow ceases: They do not accept that we have federal structures in the field of education, especially as regards kindergartens, and that it is difficult for the ministry to know to the last community what is going on in detail; of course, that is obvious, I simply want to emphasize that, just towards SPÖ. Three of their national councils are directly responsible for these matters in Austria, and there are also problems in these federal states. – Maybe you don’t point your finger at others, but take your responsibility seriously! Mrs Hammerschmid, you were a minister, you know exactly what that means. Take responsibility, take control of the listener, call your three councillors and see that it works in the federal states! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I really understand that the impatience is great – especially in connection with the Matura, I have noticed it, because that is not yet the case with me. I really understand that, just the right approach, I believe that on the basis of the data that is being re-examined every two weeks, serious decisions are being made, which can also be taken and which can really depend on everyone. This is the process of the government, which is also the procedure of Mr Fassmann – and I think that is true. Of course, that's not satisfactory. We can't say what it looks like in six weeks. I understand that you want it; I want it, too, but it's not going to happen. We just don't have this possibility that we can reliably say and know what it looks like in six weeks. We need to get ahead in two-week plans. That's just the reality. – I would ask you to understand this and not to ask for things that are simply not in our power and which we cannot foresee! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have now published the regulation on Matura, as there is clarity; that was important. The next steps will follow. I ask you to support us with your expertise! Support us also in communication and in things that create clarity, such as the Matura regime! I haven't seen a posting of the SPÖ in which you say: That's how it looks, and now you know what's going on! – There too we can support and hold together. I believe that together we can ensure a great deal of clarity and bring in a lot of peace, as it will allow the framework conditions.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e22150	The next item is Mrs Eva Maria Holzleitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e22171	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Marchetti, with all appreciation: I am really proud of the red Vienna, for city councillor Jürgen Czernohorszky takes care, for example, that now all children really have access to a laptop for the Home schooling. Unfortunately, this is not the case in my home state Upper Austria with a black country councillor; I find that very sad – so much to federalism. Maybe we can both take the listener in the hand and give us a little back. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But what I really want to deal with is: Today is Earth Day, Earth's Day, which reminds us that our planet is actually something very protective. I am therefore really pleased that a proposal is being adopted today, which I introduced in the original version under black and blue during the last legislative period, namely that the subject of climate change, nature and environmental protection is more closely included in the curriculum. It is about examining our valid curriculums for environmental education and closing any gaps. Climate, nature and environmental protection and sustainability need to be strengthened and implemented more as a basic component of general and awareness-raising in the curriculum. This request has been postponed in the last legislative period, but – tenacity pays off – I have brought it back and I am really pleased that there is a commitment from all parties that this implementation will be decided today. Why is that important? – Young people really went to the street Friday for Friday to wake up that it just needs action to save our climate. These protests continue, digitally and around the globe – for example this Friday. Italy has proposed that environmental education should be strengthened in schools. We need to follow quickly, and this decision is a first step today. But, Mr Federal Minister, do not rest on it, this is not an option, because we will certainly use our parliamentary possibilities of control there, so that there really goes on a little bit faster and something will happen quickly! I would like to conclude with something positive: As has been said, this request is being decided today. As an opposition party one often encounters deaf ears and constructive suggestions are postponed, so I would like to dedicate this first step to all activists who are always active outside: Fridays for Future, Climate People's Desire and Co. – To a large extent, it is also your merit, as you have wakened people with your awareness that you have created. Thank you for your great commitment, which you bring in every day. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In any event, today's decision must not be the end of the flag rod. As politicians, we also need to take further measures, question trade chains, public transport more attractive et cetera. I am particularly pleased – short advertising – that the Federal Youth Office has a current campaign on this topic “There’s something going wrong”, “time for change”. [[Keeping up the various colored flyers of this campaign]] – This campaign has a lot of support across parties. Let us look at these demands together and put together activities for the climate in the sense of the Federal Youth Office! That's how we can really do something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e22235	Next speaker: Mrs Sibylle Hamann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e22261	Madam President! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! German at the station: When we discussed this request the other day in the Committee on Education, it seemed to me a little bit like a frozen posthornton from another time, that is from the time the FPÖ has publicly given the tone in that country. – Thank God this time is over. I do not want to hold on to this request for too long either. He's not very thoughtful. Do you, for example, really want to ban members of our recognized groups of people from their language? Do you, for example, want to abolish bilingual schools in this country? – That's all relatively absurd. Pedagogically, this is also absurd, because with it you bring something that children as a resource, that is, to be able to speak a language other than German, to be a negative brand and to be ashamed of children, to separate children and to play against each other. There won't be any of that with us. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and SPÖ and NEOS representatives.]] I am pleased, of course, that this request is clearly rejected by all parties other than the FPÖ, and I would rather like to talk about something else that this request has reminded me of, namely, the station and how much we lack; how much we lack the school as a social place; how important it is for children from all sorts of social backgrounds to come back there soon; how important it is that their multilingualism be valued there as a social resource; how important it is that there be sufficient mother tongue teaching, German language teaching and foreign languages, so that we can all get the best understanding; and how important it will also be that children come back from the corona-related isolation, from their small families, from the narrowness, where they are always on equal terms, and get back together again, that they should come back to the station where they play and communicate in whatever language, mainly in the fresh air, with a bit of movement and distance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e22297	The next speaker was Mrs Martina Künsberg Sarre. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e22319	Madam President. Good evening, Minister. With regard to Mr Marchetti's speech, I would like to say briefly: It's relatively easy, always when something doesn't work, to say: The League is not responsible for kindergartens! In the present situation, I believe it would be important to eliminate the uncertainty that parents already have, no matter who is responsible. If you see in the Federation that there is no such thing as kindergartens – for whatever reason – then you might be able to go here, sit down with the countries and find faster solutions in this regard. [[Congratulations on Members of the NEOS.]] For the application concerning cross-border studies: I am of course pleased that our NEOS proposal is the basis for a joint request – we are in favour – but I would like to stress it already, and I would like to tell you this, Minister Fäsmann, that we see this application as the basis for the teaching programme for cross-border students. We want it not only in secondary school, so in AHS area, to carry and cross-border beginners come to the train, but above all in primary and secondary level I, because the teacher and teacher's lack is dominant there in particular. The second point: We want the cross-border beginners to receive a well-founded, pedagogical education and that this does not happen in a short course, which takes place somewhere – not yet defined – as it is – but that this is really a good career-accompanied study, which could take place not only at the pedagogical university, but – in order to bring innovation into the educational field – possibly also at a FH. This brings me to innovation and educational-didactic training: We see that more could be done in the field of digitalisation, and innovation could be further advanced, especially in the Corona crisis. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[19:22]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e22435	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Mr Hermann Brückl spoke on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e22462	Mrs Hamann of the Greens has claimed that our request would not be considered, since it would also affect bilingual schools and schools to which minority languages are taught, which is legally protected by the Federal Constitution. I am indeed correct in saying that the text of the application is that “in the light of the rights granted to linguistic minorities, every student is obliged to communicate exclusively in German under the scope of the Regulation, unless it is part of the teaching method.” Madam President, I would recommend that you read the request carefully.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e22493	We are now continuing in the debate: Mr Rudolf Taschner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e22514	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Brückl! Two words on your request concerning German as a intermission language: The language is the house of being, and this house can be designed according to its own private opinion – and the break is really something completely private, which does not belong to the school, that belongs to itself. You're supposed to give this freedom. It is very paradoxical that a party that bears the term freedom in its name here wants to carry out a Kujonation. – These are the two comments I have to make. However, allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to talk generally about this, as Mr Brückl's request, in view of the situation in which we are currently in, is a little pale, since no pope is currently really as full as he should be. We switched to home schooling, so to speak. I can say that was incredibly good. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One can only congratulate the ladies and gentlemen of the teachers of the individual schools that they have done so well. It has really been fantastically successful. We can only congratulate the parents on their dedication to this task. We really have a great achievement of the parents, of course the children and the young people themselves. There's really a lot of success. The few children we could not reach are a single-digit percentage, which is very small. The ministry, Mrs Hamann, knows this, is really trying to reach all these children so that no child is left behind. We know that the situation is not easy, of course it is, but in view of this complicated situation one can only say: It's great success! The only thing that may be deplorable is the criticism that is sometimes expressed by the opposition in this regard. It reminds me a little of a word that the former chairman of the Socialist Party has said in relation to his own comrades; I do not want to repeat it here, but this word actually meets the criticism quite well. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, the opposition chief in Portugal has said in Parliament: “Mr Prime Minister, you have our support.” Then he went on to say: “I wish them courage, steal nerves, and good luck. For your happiness will also be our happiness.” – In the face of this mysterious and spiritual corona era, an opposition chief speaks with format. This format lets you slowly miss out on sides of the opposition; so I see it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is what I am saying now in large and small terms, in terms of education I can say in a similar way. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Hammerschmid, you can look forward to the Minister of Education and to his efforts, he is really doing great things with his ministry – not because he is physically big, but also because there is a high level of seriosity, wide vision and a sense of responsibility. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] You can still work on these virtues.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e22579	Mrs Petra has now been told that she is in favour of the vote on the motion for a resolution. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e22603	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! Dear spectators in front of the screens! I would like to use my speaking time today to comment on the current corona situation in schools. First of all, I would like to thank all teachers who are so flexible in this situation and who are doing so great work and who express great praise to them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am aware that home schooling for parents is difficult. That too is a great achievement. As a school principal of a school with 200 children and ten classes, I know what I'm talking about, because I experience it every day. I am also aware that no one was prepared for this particular situation, but I would have been from the government side more support and more detailed implementation targets are expected. The headmasters always listen first and foremost from the press conferences and the media as it goes on. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Künsberg Sarre.]] Regarding laptops distributed only to federal schools, I would like to say one thing: At Kreisky's time, there would have been no difference between children in federal and national schools in the context of the free school books; the laptops were not available today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A federalism debate on the essential means of teaching is being held on the back of the children in this corona crisis. Not all children are worth the same amount – but for us, because the red federal states have exterminated this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think that the government parties to their own ministers make a request concerning a level plan for schools and call on him to act. In any case, however, we all need a view for the next two months until the end of the school in order to be able to really complete this school year. There are some works necessary. Finally, Mr Taschner, I would like to say the following: Mr Minister, we certainly support you in your work if you would like to accept our help!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e22669	Next speaker: Mrs Barbara Neßler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e22694	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! A strong and solidary society begins in school, democracy begins at school, just as climate and environmental protection in school starts, and for this reason it is right and important that, as stated in the Government Convention, we anchor climate education in all forms of school and in all curriculumes. And it is good that we start climate education with the youngest, because if we want a sustainable change in our society, then we have to start at school. Ladies and gentlemen, we are still in the climate crisis, even if it is currently being overlaid by the Corona crisis, and we must not lose sight of it. We have heard the wake-up call of tens of thousands of young people, but we only have limited time to prevent the imminent climate crisis. Nature, the environment, the climate affects all our areas of life, and therefore climate protection, climate education cannot be considered isolated, but must be understood as a principle of teaching across borders. The same is true of the climate crisis: It cannot also be considered isolated because it is a social, a health and an economic issue. The current crisis gives us the opportunity to rethink old structures, break up old structures, reform them. Let's use them! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e22724	Next speaker: Mrs Martina Kaufmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e22750	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Because of the current situation, allow me to say a few words in the direction of parents first. I know from many conversations that it is a very, very big challenge to bring everything together – home office, home schooling and also the care if the children are not yet in school – into a hat. I know that this is a huge challenge, but please, dear parents, really keep you in the interests of our health, so that this is further possible! [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Rössler.]] As a former student representative, I am pleased that we have not only come forward in the field of education regarding digitization, but have made many kilometers. Therefore, I would also like to say the following: Dear teachers, I get with: Very, very many are doing challenging but also outstanding work. Please keep this up after the crisis, so that we can continue to make this digitalization available to our children in the future! Mrs Holzleitner, on our joint request, I would like to say the following: I am pleased that we will continue to do so in the future in the curriculums, which is why, of course, it is also very clear to us that we are here. In the meantime, the Ministry has also been working on including this package in the curriculum reform. I know from personal experience – I am one of those children in which the garbage separation was the big topic in the folk school, and about the separation in school that has also come to us in the families – much of this consciousness carries us today and affects our environmental awareness as well. I think there are many other areas that can be passed on to our families and, of course, to the future. I am thinking, for example, of many companies that are now seeing that they can produce with little packaging, in order to cause also little packaging waste, but also, of course, of course, of companies that have come out of it. At home, for example, there is a company in Graz where you can buy food without having to buy packaging. I think it is important to include these ideas in the curriculum so that we are well prepared for the future. – Stay healthy, and, dear parents, keep up!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e22797	Next speaker: Mrs Claudia Plasolm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e22821	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians in front of the televisions and those who watch us over the Internet on the phones! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Greiner.]] For about five weeks, our everyday lives and our lives have changed a lot. The 1.2 million pupils, their parents, their families and teachers were also faced with new challenges within a few days. This kind of new teaching and learning from home is a special challenge for all those involved, so I would like to express a great deal of thanks to all teachers at schools at the beginning, but of course also to the professors at our universities and FHs for their commitment, because this rapid change was at all possible. A thank you at this point also to all kindergarten teachers who must also work under exceptional conditions during this time. I would like to thank the students who have to display a special kind of self-employment at this time, and a very special thank you – as I join my previous speaker – of course the parents who do incredible things bring the work, home office and childcare into one's hat, at the same time supporting the children in learning and ensuring that there is a varied programme for the children in their own four walls. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At the same time, however, this exceptional situation shows us that students can work independently and that many teaching contents can also be electronically mediated, and I think that we can take a lot of things for the future to make our education system fit for the future. This modernisation of the education system, in particular the curriculum content, has also been provided for in our government programme – and I can make a small swivel in front of Corona at the time: We had 11th. I would like to stress and support a meeting of the Committee on Education, which we are currently discussing on the requests from this meeting, and the request made by Evi Holzleitner and many colleagues, who have been brought across parties: We need to update the curriculum in order to create room for modern skills. In my opinion, this includes political education, media competence, financial literature and, as has already been said, environmental education. Today, we are taking the first step together in order to strengthen the integration of climate, nature and environmental protection into education. This is not only a major concern for students, but it is also necessary if we are to have young people who act responsibly and make sustainable decisions. For me, this simply belongs to a modern education of general and consciousness. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] Finally, once again a great thank you to all the educational partners for their commitment in this difficult time. I myself am looking forward to welcoming school classes again at Vienna Weeks, at school excursions in Parliament personally. Dear students, you are currently going off at the gallery! In the sense of living political education, this is one of our everyday lives as a Member of Parliament. I've been looking forward to the time to Corona. In this sense: Stay healthy and thank you for the work!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e22890	Mrs Gertraud Salzmann is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e22912	Mr. Minister! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, if you are still in front of the screens! The legal anchoring of the for­mation I believe that their practical implementation is not feasible. On the one hand, it is unconstitutional because such a regulation would mean an intervention into the fundamental right to respect for private life, and this intervention would not be justified at all, on the other hand, I do not really consider it feasible in practice. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens]] Who's going to check that out? And if it's not controlled, then it's toothless, it's not gonna do anything. The lack of German knowledge is certainly a problem before which we see ourselves, which is why we have also introduced the German funding classes and the German funding courses, and we are also extending the whole to the kindergarten in order to also enable as good a language promotion as possible. My Dear Ones However, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the current situation, let me turn to a point that is really very important to me personally: I am constantly hearing that the schools are closed, there is no teaching, there is no education. – No, that is not true, ladies and gentlemen! All schools in Austria are open, it is offered high quality care and it is done excellently. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[New call of the abg. Belakovich.]] In addition, since 16.3., since the Shutdown, high-quality teaching has taken place. I ask you to carry it like that! I would therefore like to thank all the school partners very much today, with all teachers who have now changed from present to home schooling to distance learning within three days. They do excellent work and they show great commitment. Thank you, teachers! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I would also like to thank all students, for whom this is also a special challenge, especially those who are now in the graduation classes or in the interface classes. I'm thinking especially about the maturants. – You have done the jobs so far very disciplined. You work well with the teachers, always in regular contact. And we will certainly be able to develop further funding for the 6.8 percent of pupils we are not yet reaching, or only difficult, at the moment. The Federation, you, Mr Minister, have already pledged and commissioned that 12 000 terminals be ordered, and in all the federal states, efforts are now being made to roll this out at national level too. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] I know exactly from Salzburg, where Landesratin Hutter has already acquired a number of digital devices. A last, but very special, and warm thanks goes to all parents in this case. – I know and I can think of what will be demanded of you all. In addition to the home office, you now also have home schooling. This is a very special challenge in this particular time. You're supposed to put all this under one hat now. And – and this is very important – you also give your children a hold and accompaniment in this uncertain time. Please don't forget that, because next to all the learning, it's very important now! My last thanks, Mr Minister, are true to your heart. I know how much commitment the whole thing is associated with, because I keep watching it. With a very sensible approach and with a lot of fingertips you are now trying to master this crisis as best as possible, and binding It also includes the expertise from practice. I would like to thank you very much for this work that has been done so far. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I really appeal to everyone in here – I look from left to right, I look at all parties –: [[pointing left hand from left to right]] We will only cope with this crisis, which is of course also a crisis for school, together. And I ask all of you to really take along and help you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e23014	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. As agreed, the vote will take place at the end of the meeting. [[19:43:14]] 26. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the work report 2019 of the Court of Auditors – series BUND 2019/49 (III-78/69 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e23047	We'll get to 26. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I welcome the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors in our midst and give the floor to Mr Hermann Gahral's first speaker on this item on the agenda. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e23078	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Each year, the Court of Auditors shall inform its activities in a comprehensive report. It is a matter of reporting on the audits and discussions, of course there are also follow-up reviews, and the reports are also constantly being questioned by the Court of Auditors. In 2019, the Court of Auditors carried out 87 audits, of which 19 were so-called follow-up audits. 49 reports as well as the federal accounts and the income report have been addressed to the National Council, 35 reports to the Landstags and eight reports to the municipalities. If one wants to take stock, it can be justified by the implementation of the recommendations made by the Court of Auditors: In 2019, the Court of Auditors asked for the level of implementation of 125 audited bodies and assessed a total of 2 666 recommendations issued in 2018, and the efficiency, the implementation of the recommendations, was proudly 79 percent. Special tests have also been carried out. There were five test orders for special tests – much more than in previous years. A focus in 2019 – and, of course, very strongly observed in the public debate – was the examination of the party law, the resulting audit of the Court of Auditors. This is a special task of the Court of Auditors. Because of the so-called Ibiza crisis, it was about how to close the gaps in the party law. There was then in September 2019 a novel of the party law with three central points: first: Prohibition of large-scale donations and the intensification of fines in the event of an overrun of electoral costs; secondly, the administrative tasks of the Court of Auditors have also been extended; thirdly, there is now an immediate reporting obligation on donations over 2 500 euros; the donors are immediately listed on the Court’s website. All in all, the parties adhered to the fact that there has so far been only a violation. In principle, I believe that the Court of Auditors' audits can help to increase the understanding of party finances in the future, especially in the government programme. Companies whose share is 25 percent will also be checked in the future, except for listed public companies. In conclusion, many of the Court’s recommendations and central demands are addressed in the activity report, which is enshrined in the government programme and which will be implemented in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e23126	The next item is Mrs Karin Greener's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e23147	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! The 2019 activity report gives a good overview of the extensive activities. Where has the Court of Auditors given priority in its audits? – He has put them in terms of citizens’ benefits. How does the cost optimization look? Will the tasks be fulfilled in a timely manner? All these are important parameters for good impact control, and it is really important to know how public funds are used. Do they arrive where they are needed? That's what I'm going to get to the budget: We know the reserves have been exhausted with the previous year. What about the 2020 equipment? – In the near future, the budgetary negotiations will begin, and we will be able to discuss more details within the framework of these negotiations. I expect, ladies and gentlemen, from all the political groups represented here, a clear commitment to the fact that the Court of Auditors is equipped with sufficient budget resources to carry out its important control tasks – it is our control body – as well. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I look very specifically in the direction of the Green Members. You used to hear: It is so important, control is important, good control is important, the Court of Auditors needs budget!, but unfortunately these votes have become very quiet in the meantime. Finally, I would like to address an up-to-date discussion – all of you have followed it through the media – about saving the cots. In recent years, there have been repeated recommendations from the Court of Auditors to save hospital beds. Especially in the military area, it has been said, there are too many beds that we save! Now, of course, at the beginning of the Corona crisis, you have rightly asked yourself: Was that all right? It was insecurity there, of course one is concerned that there are subcapacitys, but what is important now? – That we draw the right lesson from it. We must be aware: What might one need – we do not want to hope that it will come back to such a crisis? What do we need? Which medicine We need equipment? How does it look with cots? But not only the beds are important, even breathing equipment are important. Will we have enough of that? We must ensure that we do so as far as possible, and I also expect the Court of Auditors to set new test standards in order to respond to these challenges. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e23196	Next speaker: Mr Wolfgang Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e23220	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Mr Gahr has already very well listed all that is to be said, especially on the recommendations that have been implemented, on the 2019 Activity Report. I would like to focus a little on the unimplemented recommendations. There is a measure that we have always seen for a large number of years in the same order: 80 percent of recommendations are implemented, 20 percent not. That is why one can also deal with a little bit of that 20 percent, in which there is probably very great potential, seen in monetary form. These are recommendations and measures for which policy should take action and which would perhaps also have to take courageous decisions. I have to admit, Madam President, that I would have expected more from your predecessor, who then came to a ministerial office where deregulation and reforms in this country were concerned. But I must apologise for it is true that if you accept such an official at the ÖVP, it is not that easy, because the concrete fraction is sitting and is very difficult with changes and reforms. That's in such a walled lot, apologise, party. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Madam President, I know that you are doing great things with your team. I hope you're doing well now in times of Corona, and all of your staff are healthy and that's what's going on. After this crisis, they will certainly be assigned a lot of tasks to new test articles. I already see the entire Covid-19 packages, which have been chained here, but I also see the fantastic campaigns that have been made. This show-on-additional campaign alone, i.e. this stay-to-home casrenation campaign, has devoured 15 million euros, as you hear; and all this was done to any party-related agencies of black and green. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cannon]] The party felt is now also very quickly overwashed to the Greens. It's going to happen quickly that this is growing, that's worse than mold. [[Intervocations with ÖVP and Greens.]] We as Parliament are here to clarify all these flows of money, and you, Madam President, and the Court of Auditors are exactly the instrument we need to do so. [[Rejoicing with representatives of ÖVP and Greens]] [[Abg. Stögmüller: Well, I'm afraid of them!]] [[Abg. Haubner: Very brave!]] [[Further calls to ÖVP and Greens]] I'm looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e23298	Next speaker: Mr David Stögmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e23322	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen, Corona busy For over five weeks now, and even if it is extremely important and was to bring this crisis under control, we must nevertheless not ignore other important issues. There is also a need for transparency and, above all, control in the post-war period in a crisis. An instrument for this is in addition to Parliament's most important aid body, the Court of Auditors. The President of the Court of Auditors is presenting to us today the Court of Auditors' activity report, which shows its diverse activities – from the normal audit activity to the special audits of the National Council, the Minister, to special tasks such as the preparation of the income report and the tasks under the Party Act. These test activities are of enormous importance. They help us to bring transparency into the system, but also to practice criticism and to identify improvements where necessary. I would particularly like to thank the staff of the Court of Auditors for this important work. However, in the activity report, the Court of Auditors is also very conscious of certain wounds. It reaffirms once again the desire for an extension of its testing skills in order to enable companies in which the State is at least 25 percent involved to examine. At present, there are uncertainties in precisely those points which the Court of Auditors may even examine. The reason for this is the current legislative provision, which regulates who the Court of Auditors is allowed to examine. According to the previous provision, these are companies in which the public hand is at least 50 percent involved, or those which are actually dominated by the state. But that is often not clear. As a result, when a company is in fact dominated by the state, there are often uncertainties. This issue, which repeatedly leads to disputes between the Court of Auditors and certain undertakings and bodies, must be resolved, because it creates uncertainties. In addition, such procedures lead to a waste of resources and also to an unnecessary loss of time. Instead of being able to concentrate entirely on its audit tasks, the Court of Auditors must argue whether it is allowed to examine at all. As examples, the Vienna Airport or Media Quarter Marx GmbH, with which there have been legal disputes concerning mastery, are cited. Together with the government, we are currently working on the largest transparency package in the Second Republic. A centrepiece will be the strengthening of the control of the Court of Auditors. We Greens have always been in favour of subjecting those companies and bodies in which the State is at least 25 percent involved to audit the Court of Auditors. There is no reason why, when it comes to tax money, no control should take place only because the state does not hold the majority. That is why I hope for a broad majority here in Parliament to be able to decide on this package. We will certainly implement this with the government because trust in handling tax money is good, but control is better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e23365	Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e23386	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors. I would like to thank you for this activity report which you have presented here, because it shows very clearly what an important role it plays. the Court of Auditors in the Austrian state system. He looks forward to the proper use of taxpayers' money – as you call it – economically, sparingly and effectively. I believe that this is a very essential peg of control that you take up here, and for that I can thank you and all the employees of your home very much. However, the report also shows very clearly that there are still problems, that is, gaps where the examinations are not optimal. An example of this is the non-profit building associations. They also mentioned this in a report, as it was about the federal states of Salzburg, Tyrol and Vienna. There are a total of 76 non-profit associations, of which only eight could be examined by the Court of Auditors. If you look at the Austrian figures, then you can see that there are 185 of which the Court of Auditors – this figure is from 2017 – can only examine 25, i.e. only about 13.8 percent. This shows that we have a gap that is urgently to be closed, and that, as Parliament, we are also called upon to give the Court of Auditors greater competence. A second point that you address, which is also important to us, is the auditing of companies that have close proximity to the public. It's just that you can check from 50 percent. It has already been mentioned by my previous speaker, Mr Stögmüller, that there should be a change that you are calling for. We will therefore make a request in this regard today, namely that all companies can already be examined by the Court of Auditors from 25 percent on. All these tasks and the generally important task that the Court of Auditors takes over, of course, require certain financial resources. There it is that You rightly mount that at the moment the staff level is really at the minimum. It is true that in the Court of Auditors in 2019 there were jobs of 280 full-time equivalents, but 323 were planned. We are constantly discussing the need to enable the Court of Auditors to carry out further audits, so it would be urgently necessary to make available financial resources to it. In the end, taxpayers and taxpayers, every euro we invest in the Court of Auditors saves us a lot of money because of course they pay attention to these things. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I think it is particularly important to highlight the role of the Court of Auditors in the current crisis. We are, and in particular the government, very generous as regards emergency measures, aid packages et cetera, and we are also happy to do so because we believe it is necessary to support the economy right now. But we have to look carefully and make sure that it is really a fair procedure that leads to the support, and not any artists may get benefits and not others. We will also have to look closely at the possibility of the Court of Auditors, especially when we look at the Cofag. In this regard, we will also, as soon as possible, make a request that the Court of Auditors may examine, because it is important to look closely at: Who gets the money? How many funds are distributed? In addition, of course, there are also the hardening funds that are located at the Chamber of Commerce. Even there, weeks ago, when this was set in motion, we said that this is a most bizarre construction and that this is quite to be questioned. We will also support the Court of Auditors, as far as possible, to ensure that it really gets the opportunity to do so. To look closely and also to prevent any things from going the way we imagine it. At this point it should be said again: I thank you, Madam President, and your entire House for the work you have done. I am looking forward to further reports, which may give us some hint, where we need to look more closely and where we can best look at, so that we can implement the recommendations and, accordingly, very sparingly deal with the tax money, and I am also looking forward to further cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e23443	Next speaker is Michael Seemayer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e23468	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Madam President of the Court of Auditors. High house! We have heard a lot about control today and we have also discussed it. There is a broad consensus that parliamentary control is necessary and indispensable. Control is particularly useful if the findings are also implemented. With a rate of 80 percent in implementation or in the implementation commitment, a good path has been taken, but there is still air up. I would like to point out once again the tense situation regarding the Court of Auditors' budgetary situation. If one knows that the Court of Auditors has only been balanced because reserves have been dissolved and the reserves have now been exhausted, then one can see that there is an urgent need for action, especially in view of the fact that the government programme has agreed to extend the audit competences. However, auditing and control also bring a lot, especially when it comes to sustainable improvements and savings. There is a sustainable impact, particularly in the case of constant and recurring expenditure. However, it is also clear that in the case of short-term, unforeseen and hopefully non-repetitive expenditure, additional control is necessary. The development of expenditure necessary to deal with the current situation needs immediate control. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is not enough if the Court of Auditors sometime in the future shows any abuses and makes recommendations that are no longer feasible, because the crisis is hopefully already in the past. The fact that this may not seem so important to one or another in the Federal Government also suggests that the chancellor's statement is that it is already too late when laws are examined by the Constitutional Court, because they already have no validity. This is a false understanding of parliamentary control, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, what is necessary for the Court of Auditors in the future and what the Court of Auditors needs is clear political commitment on fundamental issues related to the test criteria, namely that strategic and preventive measures should be taken, such as the supply of medicines and protective equipment, as well as the monitoring of oil and gas reserves, or the determination of how many intensive beds are needed in Austria. Fewer intensive beds may be economic, but right now, in the Corona crisis is all happy that there is still enough of it available. You can see that's necessary. On these issues, the test criterion of economics should not be higher than citizens' benefits. There must be security of supply over economics. We have to make these decisions here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e23525	Madam President, Mr Kraker. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e23549	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all, I would like to thank you very much for the very positive statements made by the Court of Auditors, which are particularly valid for the staff of the Court of Auditors who have produced a total of 70 reports in 2019 and submitted them to this House. I am pleased that the Court of Auditors can still speak in the National Council today. On the agenda is the activity report for the past year and the report on the income collection for federal companies – this is the next item on the agenda – for the past two years. Both reports were discussed shortly before the outbreak of the Corona crisis in Austria in the Committee on the Court of Auditors, namely, on 4 July. March of this year. Maybe you'll allow me a little comment at the beginning: It feels quite normal for me – I also recognise that we are apparently on the right path back to normality – that the Court of Auditors' reports will again be discussed almost at the end of the agenda today. That is really like normal times. [[Abg. Greiner: Unfortunately! Unfortunately!]] Please don't understand that as a criticism. I am of course aware that in times of crisis management, the acute problem solution is always a priority. This is what the Court of Auditors has done in recent weeks. We have tried not to impose any additional burden on audited bodies now working around the clock on crisis management. We have, of course, also changed to teleworking and home office for the Court of Auditors, and we are trying to continue our work consistently. I also understand this by acting responsibly in critical situations. Ladies and gentlemen! The last few weeks have also led us to see how important it is, in fact, that a state is capable of action. A state is never self-interest, but always means for the purpose; only then can crises be overcome to the extent of the corona crisis. In Austria, government and Parliament have acted to protect the most important good, namely health. Of course, you have to support the economy and society at the same time at every meeting, because they face massive consequences from Corona. That's the most important thing now. The framework conditions have changed fundamentally in many areas. As examples, I call labour market security, tourism, education, digitisation, public debt and, of course, health. I also note at this point that the Court of Auditors will, of course, ensure that the right lessons are drawn from the crisis. The question is that the return to normality, which will certainly also include new viewpoints, will be done well. This also applies, of course, to the Court of Auditors itself: Some of the ongoing tests that we started before Corona and for which the framework conditions have then changed fundamentally, we will re-examine against the background of the Corona crisis. We are now faced with new questions and problems. Without health, everything is nothing, and because of the corona pandemic, we will therefore reassess the standards in this area. In the 2019 activity report, the audit focus of the Court of Auditors – citizens' benefits and quality of performance – has been outlined in detail for three years. In the field of health, for example, there is a need for forward-looking prevention and care for the population. For example, last year we published a report on pharmaceutical procurement for hospitals in Salzburg and Tyrol. We have pointed out the growing problem of the supply of medicines such as antibiotics and vaccines worldwide. We published a report on diabetes prevention and care last year and also a report on the care of the mentally ill. All these reports are with you in the Court of Auditors. Yeah, it's right. We have criticized the number of beds in previous years in terms of costs. We will also draw the right conclusions for the future from the crisis. Of course, important points are still open: For example, how do we view vaccination as a preventive measure? How do we get a reliable overview of the data in the medical field and how do we shape the interaction between the stationary and the settled area? – All these are topics where we can become smarter together. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to a report from the Court of Auditors. We have recently discussed another subject very intensively, which is now burning many among the nails, which is the subject of quality and funding of care in Austria. We have this report on 14 November. February of this year, and another report we published two years ago, in 2018, was about the topic of 24-hour care. On the one hand, this was about quality, but on the other hand it was also about the issue of dependence on caregivers from the surrounding EU countries. It is also about the development of the labour supply and the security of supply. Dear ladies and gentlemen! A teaching from Corona will probably be that the state will redesign some areas in the future – but it must continue to be operational and powerful. The Court of Auditors is concerned, inter alia, with the issue of decision-making, with valid numerical bases and, of course, with crisis-proof budgets in the long term. As President of the Court of Auditors, I support the intense effort to deal well with the crisis and to dispel negative consequences from the state – but, of course, there must not be any unreasonable profiters of the crisis or even fraudulent energy! This is a fundamental issue, because it is about tax money – tax money is inseparably controlled, and, of course, within our existing possibilities, timely control. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to draw attention to one point in the previous year's activity report: The year 2019 brought into public light the special tasks assigned to the Court of Auditors in connection with the Party Act. The Court of Auditors made a clear statement in this respect last year and called for audit rights for the Court of Auditors. Procedures relating to possible circumvention of the provisions of the Party Act, to the overrun of the election costs, to which the Independent Party Transparency Senate is now making ongoing decisions, as well as to the problems of donations, have increased the call for more control. A monitoring and transparency package will be envisaged in the government programme 2020 to 2024, and I agree to remember it. I hope to be implemented this year in order to strengthen control and transparency – and there is also the need to learn the right lessons from 2019. As far as the Court of Auditors' budget is concerned, I would like to refer to the budget deliberations in a few weeks and thank all those who support the Court of Auditors for being able to do his job well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e23588	Thank you very much, Madam President. There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I also put this vote to the end of the sitting and continue on the agenda. [[20:13:39]] 27. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' Report on Average Income and Additional Services for Public Economy Pensions of the Federal Republic of Germany 2017 and 2018 – RELEASE 2019/1 (III75/70 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e23625	We have now reached item 27 of the agenda. There was no oral reporting. Mr Johann Singer is now on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e23656	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am personally very happy and grateful to be able to stand at this speaker's desk again today. Ladies and gentlemen! It may not be understandable for some spectators to consider today, among other things, the income of board members and supervisory councils, while at the same time making every effort to create the conditions for ensuring that as many jobs and businesses as possible can be maintained despite the corona pandemic. Why do we still deal with this issue? – Madam President of the Court of Auditors has already mentioned it: On behalf of this House, the Court of Auditors shall submit every two years a report on the income of those companies and bodies of the Federal Government subject to the control of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors thus fulfils its constitutional reporting obligation. The current report deals with the years 2017 and 2018. It was discussed at the last meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and was presented to the plenary today. Ladies and gentlemen! The basis for this report is the data of around 420 companies and institutions of the Federal Government. On some of the statements made by I would like to address this report. In 2018, employees in federal companies and institutions across all sectors achieved an average income of 55 200 euros per year, resulting in an increase of 4.54 percent in the last four years. The average income of the members of the Executive Board or of the Executive Board was 218 300 euros in 2018. For the last four years, this means an increase of 3.9 percent, i.e. a lower increase than in the income of employees. In 2018, the board members of the Austrian Post Aktiengesellschaft were best paid with an average of 1.85 million euros. By the way: The report also states that 54 of the total 637 of the Executive Boards and/or Executive Boards included in the report are included in the report. Executive Board members deserve more than the Federal Chancellor. Ladies and gentlemen! Now on a subject which we have discussed in detail in all the reports of the last ten years, and unfortunately the result is still embarrassing to me: I'm talking about women's incomes in the chiefs' days and supervisory councils. The female board members' income in 2018 was an average of 180 285 euros – 79.4 percent of the average income of their male colleagues. The proportion of women in boards and management rose to 21.6 percent, and the proportion of women in supervisory councils was 31.4 percent in 2018. Although the required 30 percent quota was reached, the number is still not intoxicating. Unfortunately, the remunerations show that women in supervisory councils receive only 83.5 percent of the remunerations of male colleagues – two years ago it was 93.9 percent in this report – and all of this with equal performance. Ladies and gentlemen! From my point of view, it is necessary to have these differences reviewed in detail and then to make political decisions based on them. The same payment for the same performance must finally become reality not only with the public enterprises of the federal government, but with all companies! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e23707	Next speaker: Mr. Andreas Kollross. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e23731	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Madam President. Of course, I would like to start with a thank you to you personally and to your house, as did my previous speakers. I believe that all of us, together and across parties, are finding that the Court of Auditors always provides good basis for us to reach the necessary conclusions politically. As has been said – you yourself and others have already mentioned it today – there must not always be an opinion with the Court of Auditors on what it delivers to us. In the end, it is our decision to deal with these results. It is important, however, that there is this basis, and I would like to thank you very much and the colleagues of your House for this. I would like to join my previous speakers in concrete terms in relation to male and female income comparisons in state enterprises, because we really see a lot and we can be very grateful that it is this list and consideration The Court of Auditors. If you want to do so, you could have a lot of positive evidence that there are at least 30 percent quotas, as the previous speaker has already said, in the Supervisory Boards, or even a very small increase to 31.4 percent. But that was already with the positive result in terms of income comparison. On the contrary, one has to find out negatively that there has been a drastic increase in the imbalance of income between men and women in these areas. I think you can't just go politically to the agenda, but you have to assign it to time, and if we assign it politically, you have to say at the end of the day: This is a result of the black and blue government policy of the past, and this can be mentioned quietly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What does that mean? – In concrete terms it means that in 2016 the income of women was 94 percent of that of their male colleagues and there was a reduction of more than 10 percent within two years, so that in 2018 it was only 83.5 percent at once. I believe that we really cannot go over to the agenda, and above all I believe that we as the Republic also have a responsibility: If our state enterprises do not manage to strike a balance between men and women in income, we will not be able to demand it from the private sector for a long time. I believe that it is a matter of progressing with good example, and that is why, as I believe, it is important that we recognize that there is more wage justice only through greater transparency. That is why there is a need for a general income transparency in this Republic. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e23774	Next speaker: Mr. Christian Lausch. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e23798	Mr President. Madam President. I would like to thank you and your home very much, on behalf of my group, for the good income report 2019. This is always important. A lot has already been said. Of course, even if Mr Singer meant that she was closing herself a little. – Well, yes: The average earnings of a normal staff member of close-to-public enterprises amount to 55 000 euros, which is almost 220 000 euros for the managing director, board of directors and board members. So the sheriff is still very far apart. The political groups of EIAs and SPÖs do not tire of always talking about the differences in earnings between men and women, and of how unfair this is. However, we have looked at the salaries of the board of directors, the board of directors, in particular, also the party membership, as far as one can see – and this can be very well observed at the close-to-state establishments. They are split up in Austria to the long-term coalition of black and red, as one has to say now – one has always said before: by red and black. When you read all of this, you can see: Austrian Federal Forest: ÖVP/ÖVP and so on and so on, Rail Cargo Austria: SPÖ/SPÖ, ÖBB infrastructure: SPÖ/SPÖ. If one is talking about the differences in income between men and women and complains of how unfair these are, then one must also talk about how the occupations of the boards look and that very, very firmly colored in red and black of the long-term coalition. That's what you have to look at. I am quite grateful that the Court of Auditors' income report looks the way it looks. – Again a warm thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e23837	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. There is no wish by the rapporteur for a final word. As agreed, I will move the vote to the end of the agenda. [[20:24:51]] 28. Point Report of the Immunities Committee on the request of the Regional Administrative Court of Carinthia (CCC). KLVwG-2334/4/2019) for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council of the Mag. Christian Ragger(118 d. b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e23874	We arrive at the 28th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. As I have seen, there is no speaker on this item on the agenda. I will therefore close the debate immediately. There is no wish by the rapporteur for a final word. I can also put the vote on this to the end of the agenda. [[20:25:28]] 29. Point First reading: Request by Dr. Nikolaus Scherak, MA, Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues concerning a federal law, with which the Federal Law of 4 October 1989 was adopted. It was amended on 1 July 1975 on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (the Rules of Procedure Act 1975) (409/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e23920	We're at the 29th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Kai Jan Krainer. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e23950	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Ibiza Investigation Committee, which was requested by NEOS and SPÖ last year, is characterised by the behaviour of the government parties, in so far as it was tried from the outset to delay: All deadlines for the Committee on the Rules of Procedure were used until the last day, then were postponed – so they were delayed at the beginning once. [[Green call for tender]] The next thing was that he was tried to amputate by the majority of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, as we said at the time, wanting to decide completely arbitrarily which part of the request should be examined and which part should not. The Constitutional Court has decided that this procedure by Greens and ÖVP in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure was unconstitutional and contrary to the law – that was then prevented. The following was the attempt to give the investigative committee as few consultation dates as possible. Each investigation committee shall have between 40 and 50 dates in the first twelve months. The two parties have offered – I think it was 21 – 21 dates, so just half of what any other committee of inquiry - – – – please, Mrs Colleague, if you say that was only the ÖVP and you were not, then I am glad, but then you come to the speaker's desk here and say: [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Stögmüller and Mr Tomaselli.]] [[==References====External links== Stögmüller]] That was just the ÖVP who wanted these 21 dates! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] So, now there's a constructive phase. That's what I'm looking forward to. So now there are no longer any delays, amputation, prevention and setting as few dates as possible on the programme, but it now looks like – there is this proposal; by the way, that was an idea of the colleague Krisper – that, in comparison with the Covid-19 laws, which also provide for a suspension of time limits for court proceedings, one would put a stop to the rules of procedure, i.e. the time in which the committee of inquiry cannot meet due to the general restrictions, out of the deadlines. Thank you for the proposal that we have then jointly formulated and submitted. It looks as if all the parties would agree on it, so that we can decide this unanimously on Monday in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure while at the same time making a work plan, I believe, 42 or 44 dates. That is good, because then finally the Ibiza Investigation Committee can start its work. To that end, I would like to seek the approval of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e24014	The word is now known as Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e24038	Mr President. In contrast to my previous speaker, I should like to say quite clearly: A request from SPÖ and NEOS – a minority right – was naturally taken note of by this Parliament and is supported in full. It is a constitutional right that we – SPÖ and ÖVP – jointly introduced here a few years ago. Therefore, there should, of course, be full information on all the allegations that exist around the entire Casinos AG, on all the topics in the extended application, SPÖ and NEOS. We had the goal of starting with the surveys after Easter, but corona was unfortunately not possible. I am therefore very pleased that we have found a consensus in the Presidency among all the political groups and that we have taken a new approach, which reads as follows: ==References== The surveys begin on June. We have set 42 survey days – including unanimously – and talked about a time-limit inhibition. We want to bring this into line with this request. There were several months of discussion. I don't want to explain this any more. It is important that we have an agreement and that this committee will meet until the summer of next year. It is important to clarify everything. I do not think it is necessary that anyone has an excitement, because it is certainly important for the Austrians that we carry out this constitutionally. We'll do that. But today it's about all of us paying attention to the Coronavirus in chess. to keep the life and the economy up again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e24074	Mag.a Nina Tomaselli is speaking. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e24099	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am not only pleased that the investigative committee is going to start, but also that the fairy tale hours of colleagues Krainer have ended. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] It's really hard to listen to you, colleague Krainer. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] They stand out here and claim against better knowledge that we have delayed and exploited deadlines until the last day. The very clear truth is: We didn't use a single deadline, not a single one! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] As Mr Gerstl said, it is going on now, and we can look forward to it. All parties have agreed unanimously on this, and we Greens have also been very committed to it. We have, as I think, a good decision. We've got 42 days of survey. This is a very, very appropriate number, also within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. The deadlines are inhibited for three months, as in all similar cases, which was also a wish of yours. Now a word to the spectators outside: If you hear that we're talking about Ibiza or the casinos, that sounds almost unreal. I also understand this because, after all that we have experienced in recent weeks, it seems like a long-time political crime, but in reality the whole thing is not even a year ago that the political world in Austria, in Europe, actually stopped short, because we all have observed a man sitting on a couch in a villa in Ibiza trying to sell half the Republic as a party to a government in Austria. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] This Ibiza-Wodka party was already a break in the political world in Austria, and therefore it is important that the Enlightenment begins now and not only in September. Corruption must be swept out of politics, and if we feel that this can happen as quickly as the FPÖ has been swept by the government bank. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] We find that Austrians must be able to rely on rich laws not to buy, and politicians cannot abuse casinos and public checkouts as self-service stores. That is why we are pleased that, after all these turbulences, we can start unanimously with the Ibiza Committee. If it goes after us, it's allowed to go on that way. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e24166	Dr Stephanie Krisper is speaking. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e24190	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I should like to express my pleasure that the representatives of all parties have agreed to support NEOS and SPÖ's request. The purpose of the application is to restrict the time limit for the Ibiza Investigation Committee. We see this as very important because we are achieving that the time that has elapsed due to the measures against the spread of the corona virus. is, for the Enlightenment – which will truly take a lot of time – can be brought back again. We have been orientated on the time-limitation in the field of justice. We need every possible time for clarification, because we, SPÖ and NEOS, were right to the Constitutional Court at the end of March and, according to our original intention, we are allowed to clarify the Ibiza complex comprehensively. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] That this is important – and that is what I would like to recall next to the corona challenge – shows, for example, yesterday's reporting on chat protocols between H.-C. Strache and Vilimsky on Supervisory Board posts for Ms. Kappel in the ÖBB or other close-to-state companies. It was therefore right to include post-contracting not only at Casag, but also at other close-to-state establishments in the subject-matter of the investigation. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] These chats point out that the poster around Peter Sidlo was not a single case in the casinos affair. It seems that other important items in strategic essential companies in Austria have not been filled according to competence, but according to political loyalty, without regard to losses for companies and for taxpayers and taxpayers. Wherever the new style remained, the question was also asked, because it was finally the then Chancellor's Minister of Finance and the current Minister of Finance Blümel like the then Minister of Finance Löger, who were responsible for the appointment of supervisory councils in the Öbib companies. We will therefore also take a close look at the role of the ÖVP. It is also important to address questions of influence on investigations against parties, not only concerning Casag, but also concerning Ibiza investigations as well as the Schredderaffaire. In this context, I recall the inconsistencies of the alleged turquoise partiality of Soko Ibiza, the meetings of section head Pilnacek with accused persons in the Casag investigations and also the attacks of Sebastian In short on the work of the economic and corruption prosecutorship. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Stögmüller.]] Last, but not least, it is about looking at exactly how the Federation under Turquoise Blue performed its control functions, in particular as regards the protection of players in gambling concessions, or what he would have intended otherwise in terms of gambling. As you all know, we have been fighting NEOS for some time now for the tragedy that the supposed little gambling in Austria is finally being pushed forward. [[Congratulations to Mr Bernhard and Mr Meinl-Reisinger.]] I know from numerous conversations and researches that the protection of players is far from being taken into account according to the more toothless legal situation – why it is just like that, I wonder – far too little. We also want to make it clear and really hope for an improvement and for the insight that excessive gambling has brought and brings an inconceivable amount of suffering and economic miscarriage over this country. Truly, there are only a few real profiters, those are the gambling companies themselves and probably also political parties, tag “Novomatic pays everyone”. Finally, the revenue from the gambling tax is against major economic damage. All of this, and some others, is now in the context of the fact that God is grateful to clarify 42 consultation dates. For today, I can thank all the other parties for their constructive cooperation in this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e24275	Mr Kai Jan Krainer is now speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. . You are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e24302	Mr President. Mr Tomaselli has just claimed that I would have reproached for better knowledge that the deadlines would have been exploited until the last day. It stressed that no time limit would have been fully exploited. The first deadline was fully exploited: After the request has been submitted, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure has exactly four weeks to negotiate it. The application was submitted on 11 July. The negotiations were opened on 8 December. January. That was the last day of the term. That is why the opposite is true of what Mrs Tomaselli has said. The first period was immediately fully exhausted. As far as the first deadline is concerned, what Mrs Tomaselli has said here is therefore already opposed. In the future, I am looking for you not to argue against better knowledge here, things that do not vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e24338	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment 409/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. [[20:39:28]] 30. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Selma Yildirim, colleagues in a federal law that amends the rule of law, the Civil Procedure Code, the Law on Court Fees, the Law on Consumer Protection, the Federal Law against Unfair Competition and the Labour and Social Court Law (Group Procedure Act) (385/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e24378	We arrive at the 30th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Mrs Mag. Selma Yildirim. - Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e24408	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! For years, the introduction of group and collective complaints has been in discussion in Austria. Finally, implementation always fails in parts of the ÖVP. In times of the Corona crisis, the need for a collective complaint has increased. What's this about? – It is about the fact that in mass damage, such as in the VW exhaust scandal, a large number of affected victims are faced with an economically powerful harm, due to the same illegal behaviour – that is, overpowering groups against individual consumers. I don't need to explain to you that there is an uneven encounter. We, the SPÖ, are dealing with an act at an eye level, because it is easier for the injured to come to their right, and also for greater legal certainty: With only one judgment you can reach compensation for damages for many people. The damage of the individual in case of mass damage may not be very high. A process management would not be worthwhile for the individual clarifier due to the cost and process risk. If many, perhaps hundreds of victims join together and there is only one process, this would have immense advantages for all. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, we already have extraordinarily high court fees in Austria. That is why it would be extremely useful for those concerned if we finally had a modern group procedure right. The argument of the ÖVP that the introduction of the collective complaint would result in American states does not correspond to the facts. We all know that, according to Austrian law, these huge amounts of damage, as they are common in the US, cannot be charged – purely success fees are also prohibited in this country. Another objection is that we already have the so-called collective complaint of Austrian embossing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker.]] Only we know how rough it is, how complicated and unattractive it is. It was necessary to have an association such as the Consumer Information Association or the Chamber of Workers to which the demands can be assigned, and that is already a brake threshold for many. [[Abg. Steinacker:... very good!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I assume that we will debate this request in an objective and intensive manner in the committee responsible and then discuss it in plenary. As – perhaps even faster – at EU level, the Association Complaints Directive is more or less on rail, I believe or hope that we will soon come to a modern group procedure law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e24457	Mrs Mag.a Corinna Scharzenberger is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e24481	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear listeners at home in front of the screens! The arguments and reasons given in connection with the application are generally understandable. It can happen quickly on the Internet that you unwelcomely conclude a contract or subscription. Many waive a complaint even though they would be compensated for damages. The amounts are often too small and there would be no effort for a procedure. So it often happens that the perpetrators are not even brought to account. In addition, perpetrators and victims often do not even sit in the same country. The EU has also recognised the problem and the European Commission has drawn up a proposal for a Directive on such an action for association. However, it is necessary to consider certain things carefully both in the EU Directive and in the present proposal. The low cost to individuals makes it easier to seek action. This is good for the consumer at first glance, but it could lead to abuse. In order to avoid abuses, In the negotiations at EU level, we are committed to making further improvements to the proposed directive. I see it as our mission to act on the directive in such a way that there is a balance between the possibility of enforcement and the justified use of our good judicial system. Some of the points in this proposal could cause us to get American, namely a system of the lawsuit industry, in the worst case, and such a development would not only be a massive risk for companies, but would also not bring relief from the justice system. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] With the collective action of Austrian embossing, we already have a procedural opportunity which has proved successful in the past. Whether a national single entry would be useful before a relevant EU directive is published, one should perhaps also ask questions. In order to assess the impact, it is therefore in any case appropriate to discuss the application in the judicial committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e24532	Next, honourable Member Peter Wurm is speaking. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e24557	Mr President. High house! Believers at home! Collecting complaints are a rather exciting subject and for years a demand from the FPÖ, together with social democracy, has to be said. I would be pleased if we could now, above all, bring the green government partner into the boat. It's clearly communicated: For my reasons, the ÖVP has always slowed down very much. I think these collective complaints and these group procedures are a subject that is not a problem for the normal Austrian economy – quite the contrary – but, of course, they are very much something for large corporations that they do not want. This will now become an essential sample of nails, namely for the ÖVP, but from my point of view much more for the Greens. Now it will show where the Greens are in consumer protection – on the side of consumers, citizens and the ordinary Austrian economy or on the side of large corporations, industry and international lobby. Very briefly – I think it has already been explained –: All in all, it's just that if I have a legal problem as a consumer, I can deal with it relatively simply via a collective complaint, through a group procedure. This would also benefit the state, because a judge decides much more cost-effectively and faster than several. So all of this has basically only advantages. Especially in the coming months, if some procedures for consumers were to make sense in connection with Corona, this would be a very, very important instrument. We support this, we have been demanding it for years. I hope we'll get it all baked together now, even against the resistance of certain ÖVP circles, and I'll push the thumbs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e24599	Mrs Mag.a Ulrike Fischer has now come to speak. - Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e24623	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Whether I am talking about a group complaint, a collective complaint, an association complaint or a European association action, it is essentially about the fact that on one side we have consumers, consumers who often cannot afford a process, who cannot afford expert costs. But when you collect these claims, you have the possibility that many people will come to their right in the event of similar claims. But one thing has to be said: The group complaint, as it is proposed here, is not really the wuzzi. It is a relatively complicated construction, and in comparison, the collection complaint of Austrian embossing works better. It has established over the years that qualified associations such as the Chamber of Workers or the Consumer Information Association collect claims. One thing is new – and that is why the application of the group complaint is not as exciting as it was a few years ago: There is a European Directive on Associational Complaints, and we have agreed in the Governmental Agreement that we will implement this Directive so that there is also a cross-border, low-disciplinary access of consumers to the law. To explain this a little more pragmatic: You all probably have a printer at home. If the printer indicates that the toner is empty, this is relatively easy to solve with a collective complaint when the entrepreneur is in Austria. However, if it is a business abroad, it would be important that it already be this European association action. We Greens want a rapid implementation of the European Union's action to ensure that there is cross-border legal protection. However, I would like to draw attention to one point that I think is very good. It's about the profit levy. Injustice must not be worth it! If companies act unlawfully, this injustice, i.e. the resultant profit, should be used immediately; it must not be worthwhile. And here we are also in the economy: In fact, the economy must be interested in the fact that black sheep are treated accordingly. Again, the European Union’s action: The companies can currently be sued by the collective action of Austrian embossing. But if we develop European legal protection, we will achieve much more. What is still important is the process cost financing: We must succeed in ensuring that process financing, as provided for in the Government Agreement, is possible, because only then can effective collective legal protection be provided for consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e24670	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. I assign the motion 385/A to the Committee on Justice. I interrupt the session for a few minutes so that all the mandates can take their seats. I hope all are fleeting enough. [[The sitting was suspended at 20.52 p.m. and resumed at 20.54 p.m.]] [[20:54:44]] Votes on agenda items 1 to 28
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e24719	I'll start the interrupted session again. We shall now come to the votes moved, which I shall take separately from each item on the agenda. We shall now come to the vote on the motions for resolutions tabled during the debate on item 1 of the agenda. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues, on the increase in unemployment insurance benefits. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rainer Wimmer, ladies and gentlemen, on the participation of the Republic of Austria in the AUA. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Abg. Lightenness: So I thought NEOS would vote in favour!]] We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Dr. Sonja Hammerschmid, Hermann Brückl, MA, Mag. Martina Künsberg Sarre, colleagues on the ‘Staff Plan for the opening of schools and kindergartens’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This request is also rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Herbert Kickl, colleagues on 'No to the debt union, no to monitoring apps, yes to cash'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pamela Rendi-Wagner, colleagues on 'Justice and solidarity in the Corona crisis'. [[Unrest in the hall.]] - I'm asking for peace. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Sibylle Hamann, Mag. Dr. Rudolf Taschner, colleagues on ‘Responsible approach in the field of education’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. [[20/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 61 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Gerhard Kaniak, colleagues on'Obduction, documentation and information on COVID-19'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Martina Künsberg Sarre, colleagues on ‘Scientific monitoring of e-learning at universities (due to the closures of measures against the dissemination of Covid-19)’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dagmar Belakovich, colleagues on the resolution of the Chamber of Workers' Reserves for COVID-19 Support Fund. I would ask those Members who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dagmar Belakovich, colleagues on 'COVID-19 risk test for workers at risk'. I would ask those Members who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This request is also rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 62 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 63 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give a sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 64 of the supplements. I would ask those Members who give their consent to this, to give an appropriate sign. – That too is the majority. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 65 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give a sign. – That too is the majority. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 72 of the supplements. I would ask those Members who give their consent to this, to give a sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on item 8 on the agenda. We shall first come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 73 of the supplements relating to the resolution 266/A(E). I would ask those Members who give their consent to this, to give a sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. We shall also vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 73 of the Supplements on 'Inclusion of the proposals in the Social Ministry's Care Task Force'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[21/E]] We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 74 of the supplements. I would ask the ladies and gentlemen to give their agreement on this to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. This request has also been accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 10: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 75 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 11: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 76 of the supplements. I would ask those Members who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 12: Proposal from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to take note of this report III-102 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Erwin Angerer, colleagues on 'Communual investment and regional economic package'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr MMMag. Dr. Axel Kassinger, colleagues on the resolution of the Chambers of Commerce' reserves in support of local businesses. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Josef Schellhorn, colleagues, on the "Solidarity contribution of the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Workers to safeguard jobs and strengthen the economy". I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Josef Schellhorn, colleagues on the "Solidarity contribution of special pensions to safeguard jobs and strengthen the economy". I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That's the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Josef Schellhorn, colleagues on 'Declaration on inheritance and property tax'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Walter Rauch, colleagues and colleagues, on 'the rescue of the EPCs by means of immediate and complete compensation for the financial damage caused by forced closures'. I would ask those Members who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr Christoph Matznetter, colleagues on the BIG's release/reduction of business space rental. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Peter Wurm, colleagues on 'Clearness and planning for local gastronomy'. I would ask those Members who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Mag.a Nina Tomaselli, Mr Karlheinz Kopf, colleagues on 'a federal law prohibiting the payment of state aid on the occasion of the COVID-19 crisis to companies based in tax havens'. [[Abg. Krainer: A placebo application...!]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is unanimously accepted. [[22/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 13. Firstly, we shall come to the vote on the request from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 89 of the additions to the motion for a resolution 93/A(E). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall also vote on the resolution on ‘mandatory and independent climate check’ attached to the Committee’s report 89. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. [[23/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on item 14. We shall first vote on the request by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 90 of the additions to the motion for a resolution 395/A(E). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall also vote on the resolution on ‘Solutions to comply with national climate targets’, which is annexed to the Committee Report 90 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. [[24/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Julia Elisabeth, Mr, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Where are the emergency measures for climate protection'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 15. We shall first vote on the request by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 91 of the additions to the motion for a resolution 362/A(E). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall also vote on the resolution on'measures to protect our valuable soils' attached to the Committee's report 91 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. [[25/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 16: Proposal from the Transport Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Air transport agreements between the United States of America, the European Union and its Member States, Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway, in 15 of the supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 17: Proposal from the Transport Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Additional Agreements on the application of the Air Transport Agreement between the United States of America, the European Union and its Member States, Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway, in 16 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 18. First of all, we are voting on the draft on 38. KFG-Novelle with title and entry in 59 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who, at the third reading of this draft law, give their assent to this sign. – That too is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We come to the vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report on the extension of the ex-legislative right to lead blue light also to command and crew vehicles of firearms. I would ask those Members who are in favour of this to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[26/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 19: Request by the Transport Committee to take note of its report 60 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 20: Request of the Justice Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Declaration by the Republic Austria on the adoption of the accessions of Belarus, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Honduras, Ukraine and Uzbekistan to the Convention on Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction, in 39 of the supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 C. 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on item 21 on the agenda. First of all, we are voting on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 95 of the additions to the motion for a resolution 166/A(E). I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who give their agreement to do so with a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall also vote on the resolution on the ‘Up-Skirting-Prohibition’ attached to the Committee's report 95 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[27/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 22: Proposal from the Scientific Committee to take note of its report 88 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 23: Firstly, we shall come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Education to take note of its report 96 of the supplements relating to the motion for a resolution 145/A(E). I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall also vote on the resolution on the Committee Report 96 of the Supplements on ‘enhanced anchoring and implementation of climate, nature and environmental protection as well as sustainability and of ecologically responsible action as a component of general and awareness-raising in the curriculums’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[28/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 24: Request by the Committee of Education to take note of its report 97 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 25: We shall first vote on the request of the Committee on Education to take note of its report 98 of the additions to the motion for a resolution 322/A(E). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall also vote on the resolution on ‘Development of a concept to facilitate cross-border entry into the profession of a educator or a educator’, annexed to the Committee’s report 98 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[29/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Martina Künsberg Sarre, colleagues on ‘Teacher Training in the Corona Crisis’. I would ask those Members who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 26 : Request of the Court of Auditors to take note of the report of the Court of Auditors in 2019, III-78 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 27: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on average income and additional benefits for public-sector pensions of the Federal Republic of Germany in 2017 and 2018, III75 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 28: Request of the Immunity Committee in 118 of the Supplements to decide on the following: “In consideration of the request of the Regional Administrative Court of Carinthia [...] for approval of the official prosecution of the Member of the National Council Mag. Christian Ragger becomes in the sense of Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG found that no link between the incriminated action and the political activity of the Deputies to the National Council. Christian Ragger exists.” I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this request for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[21:15:05]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-22-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00024_d8e25358	I announce that in today's session, the self-employed have received applications 421/A to 490/A. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for 9 p.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. This meeting is closed.
