ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-02-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e2228	Ladies and gentlemen! I can do the 20th. The European Council held a meeting of the National Council. I can warmly welcome you in this somewhat exceptional situation. We have only met in a small group for the Introduction and Assignment Meeting, but once again I can say that we are fully operational even in times of particular challenge. I should like to thank all the political groups for the fact that the meeting of the National Council and the organisation of this meeting are also possible in this form. With the agreement of Mrs Großbauer, I should like to say that she has not only symptoms but has been duly infected with Corona. It has indicated that there were no contacts of category I. Should anyone of you have had closer contact with her at the last session, I would ask you to tell us. On the basis of the adoption of the Federal Ministry of Health and the information on answers as regards oral and nasal protection, I can recommend that this oral and nasal protection, which is also required here, be carried as far as possible. However, it is still the same as before to keep your distance and wash your hands. I should like to thank the Parliament's management, which has done the work of building up this speed overnight, for having this good protection from the speaker's desk and the government bank. ==References====External links== Meeting of 19. ==References====External links==* Official website ==References== In March 2020, the European Parliament's Directorate was unable to raise any objections. In accordance with the agreement of the Presidential Conference today, only a reduced number of Members are taking part in the meetings. The following Members are present in accordance with the reports to the Parliament's Directorate – I am saving myself reading the missing ones –: Angela Baumgartner, Mag. Andreas Hanger, Peter Haubner, Karlheinz Kopf, Ing. Klaus Lindinger, BSc, Nico Marchetti, Gabriel Obernosterer, Laurenz Pöttinger, Mag. Wolfgang Sobotka, Mag. Michaela Steinacker, August Wöinger, Doris Bures, Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, Andreas Kollross, Kai Jan Krainer, Philip Kucher, Mag. Andrea Kuntzl, Mag. Jörg Leichtfried, Dr. Christoph Matznetter, Josef Muchitsch, Dr. Pamela Rendi-Wagner, MSc, Alois Stöger, Diplômé, Ing. Markus Vogl, Erwin Angerer, Dr. Dagmar Belakovich, MMag. DDr. Hubert Fuchs, Mag. Gerhard Kaniak, Ing. May. Volker Reifenberger, Dr. Elisabeth Götze, Sigrid Maurer, BA, Mag. Dr. Jakob Schwarz, BA, Mag. Nina Tomaselli, Josef Schellhorn, Dr. Nikolaus Scherak, MAund Pia Philippa Strache. These have been mentioned to me as Members present. The other Members are apologised. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-02-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00020_d7e2387	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] I can announce that the self-employed are applying 402/A concerning 3. COVID-19 Act, 403/A concerning 4. COVID-19 Act and 404/A concerning 5. COVID-19 legislation has been introduced. In addition, self-employed applications 405/A to 408/A(E) have been submitted at this meeting. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 18.06 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
