ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e1462	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. On the second day of the sitting, I can give you the opportunity to speak to you on the 57th day of the sitting. I very much welcome the meeting of the National Council, which I am opening here. I welcome the Minister for Finance. I welcome the ladies and gentlemen of the press, and above all our spectators at home in front of the televisions. As prevented, the Members of this House are reported today. Michael Hammer, Alexander Melchior, Klaus Köchl, Philip Kucher, Maximilian Lercher, Ing. Markus Vogl, Rainer Wimmer, Mag. Gerald Hauser, Edith Mühlberghuber, Walter Rauch, Mag. Georg Bürstmayrund Josef Schellhorn. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e1530	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union has made the following communication: Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz is the Deputy Chancellor Mag. Werner Kogler. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e1563	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 2909/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e1692	Before entering the agenda, I can inform you that a request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to hold a brief debate on the reply 2909/AB to Question 2905/J by Mr Kollross, colleagues on the "Payout of Communal Investment Programme 2020" by Mr Bundesminister for Finance. This brief debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda, but not later than 15 a.m. As usual, I may announce that this meeting will be transmitted from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and following ORF III to 7.15 p.m., then it will be transmitted in the TV library comment. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e1718	A consensus was reached between the members of the Presidential Conference on the design and duration of the debates. According to § 57 para. 3 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure a day block time of 4 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times may arise: ÖVP 78, SPÖ 54, FPÖ 44, Green 40 and NEOS 32 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time of those Members who do not belong to a club for the entire agenda for each 16 minutes, per debate per 5 minutes. The following text was agreed for the first reading of the Federal Finance Act 2021: A maximum of six rounds of speakers are held as a general debate, Order by size of the group. The Federal Government's representation during the first reading is carried out by the Federal Minister for Finance. A statement from the government bank takes place at the earliest after the first round of speakers. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft and the speaking times that have just been presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Thank you for that. We are now going into the agenda. [[09:08:24]] First reading: Federal Law on the Approval of the Federal Proposal for the Year 2021 (Federal Finance Act 2021 – BFG 2021) and Investments (380 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e1772	We shall come to the only item on the agenda of this meeting. We are going into the debate. Klubobmann Wöginger is reported to speak. I can give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e1800	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! “Jointly through the crisis.” Responsible for jobs and location’: We have a special budget to negotiate in very special, challenging times. We are currently experiencing a global pandemic, resulting in a huge economic crisis, and that is why it is our responsibility to draw the necessary conclusions from it in the budget. There is a budget for 2021 with an end of 21 billion euros, and it is necessary that we also explain why we want to make this decision in this form. One thing I would like to forward: We have managed well in Austria in recent years. We have followed the principle: We cannot spend more than we take, and we have to compensate for the state budget at the end of the day. – We have done so and that is why we can afford this budget in 2021. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We have put in place an economic package of around 50 billion euros, which will be involved in the current budget, but of course also in the next few years. These are three main points: Rescue of human life, jobs and businesses, relief of citizens and investment in the location and competitiveness of Austria. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, this is not only true of us in Austria, which is currently pictured throughout Europe and in fact worldwide. To rescue: We have committed €8.2 billion for short-time work, €6.8 billion for tax benefits, €6.7 billion has been granted to guarantees, €600 million for the hard-fall fund, €200 million for the fixed-cost grant. These are measures that we must put in place to keep the economy alive at the end of the day. For discharge: Of course, we must ensure that the economic cycle remains intact, that people have so much revenue, so much money that they can consume at the end of the day. That is why we have reduced taxes by EUR 1.6 billion, which has already paid the child bonus of around EUR 700 million, we have granted the unemployed a one-time payment of around EUR 200 million, and there is also a pension adjustment, especially for the smaller and medium-sized pensions of 3.5 percent – 1 000 euros will be granted in the future by increasing the compensation allowance – in order to strengthen the purchasing power of the people to ensure that the economic cycle in Austria works, because that is what I have said. Ladies and gentlemen, the recipe for finally having an overall economic cycle that works. That is why we are putting in place these discharge measures. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We have set up investment premiums of 2 billion euros, and this is really very well accepted by the companies. In my view, this is also the right instrument to support directly into the economy. This ensures, creates and protects jobs, especially in the regions. At this point, the municipal package of 1 billion euros – for which applications are currently being made – is also mentioned in order to support projects on the ground to support the local regional economy. This is what protects jobs in the regions and what creates new jobs. That is the right way in a crisis, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I can now take out some areas. Certainly the most important issue in the near future is labour market and employment. It's going to be a matter of bringing people back to work. We have far too high unemployment, over 400 000 people are unemployed, 270 000 people are still in short work, and I say that the instrument of short work in the crisis situation is a very successful one. More than 1.3 million people were in short-time work – on the one hand, this has secured the income of employees and, on the other hand, has received the workforce for entrepreneurs and has ensured that, when the economy returns, the employees are available again. The short work is a success model, ladies and gentlemen, which seeks the same. I would like to stress it once again: I do not know any other similar approach from other European countries. We in Austria have done this very well, the short work secures income on the one hand, and on the other hand is also a very important tool for entrepreneurs. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] This year and next year, we will spend around 29 billion euros on the labour market and employment. I'm just calling two, three points: We have introduced the apprenticeship bonus, up to 3 000 euros per company, to support itself, because of course the fight against youth unemployment is a special concern. One essential point is the EUR 700 million for the work foundation. It is about re-schooling, qualifying for us to bring people back into jobs, back into the labour market. I'll just give you an example: the care. We will set up foundations through the countries, through the AMS constructions, through the administrative councils, on the country offices, into the districts. This worked very well a few years ago, so we don't have to reinvent the wheel, but we can build on what is there. We need more caregivers, and this work foundation will help us to get the necessary professionals in this area as well. We are currently negotiating on the part of the Federal Government so that we can redesign this concept. These 700 million euros for the work foundation will total around 100,000 new jobs. This is the best action, ladies and gentlemen, we can put in this area. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We are increasing in the area of security: plus 7.3 percent, plus 215 million euros, it is about 4 300 planning posts, which are also shown in this budget. We're up against the federal army: EUR 2.6 billion per year. That is necessary, we need a functioning national defence. It's about cybercrime, it's about security throughout the field of defense. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] In addition, 300 million euros are also spent in the field of justice. – That means more money for the police, more money for the federal army, more money for justice, and these are the right statements in this budget, ladies and gentlemen! – Mr Kickl, it does not use anything, you have not achieved this as an interior minister! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: What do the Corona overtime cost...?]] We know your balance goes from the blue carpet to the horses, but you've reached little. But that's what you have to live with. We are taking measures that are also arriving. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In the area of social, health and care, we also show a plus: Plus 700 million euros for testing, for the vaccine, so we'll finally prepare for the phase in which we'll hopefully have a vaccine against the corona virus. This is shown in the budget. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] A total of 1.1 billion euros are for care. Ageing in dignity is a human right, is a fundamental right and is something that this Federal Government is particularly concerned about, so these extra expenditures are also indicated in the budget. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We have planned plus EUR 1.2 billion for the field of science and universities, plus EUR 145 million for technical colleges, plus EUR 340 million for the field of research. As a Upper Austrian, I am allowed to say that I am proud that there will be a technical university in Linz. It is shown in the budget in the main headings, and it has also been announced to the public that this project will be implemented. We need to invest in the field of science and research, which is a success recipe in Austria. This is what we are doing in this budget, and we will support it significantly in the future, because at the end of the day we want to maintain our position on the market. That is why we are also expanding in the field of science and research. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We also invest in climate protection and mobility. The 1-2-3 ticket will be launched. The ÖBB Framework Plan is worth more than EUR 17 billion. In addition, EUR 1.1 billion will be added to climate protection. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a budget that affects the crisis situation. We take a lot of money into our hands, and of course we are aware that this money has to be repaid once, but in a crisis situation there can only be an answer from politics: the people, companies and society to support so that the economic cycle remains intact at the end. Austria is an excellently established state. We have managed well in recent years, which is why we can also afford this budget. We take a lot of money into our hands in the hope that together we will manage this crisis well, that we will get through this crisis together. We take responsibility for the jobs, for the location and at the end of the day for the people of our Republic. I can only appeal to you that we find a broad majority for this budget. Mr Federal Minister, I would like to thank you, your entire staff, the entire cabinet, for the fact that this budget has also been drawn up during this difficult period. It is necessary to decide that so that we can also make the necessary investments and give the people in Austria the necessary grants, discharges and subsidies.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e1914	Klubobfrau Pamela Rendi-Wagner has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e1936	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We have discussed it over and over the last few weeks and months: The challenges for this budget are particularly great because the social, economic consequences of this corona crisis are more than devastating. Austria has suffered from the biggest economic crisis since 1946. The Wifo predicts a minus of 7.5 percent – that is 30 billion euros that Austria will miss in the next few years. In September, you mentioned it, over 400,000 people were unemployed – even the highest number since 1946. On the other hand, there are a small number of job vacancies and jobs, just over 60 000. It's almost impossible for this difference to be bigger, you think. 300 000 people in short-term work: This too, Mr Wöginger, is still a large sum, especially in view of the economic researchers' forecasts, which continue to forecast us great unemployment for next year. The threat is that the large flagships of the domestic industry are now beginning to wave. The domestic industry is a large employer in our country, and if these flagships are being wavered, then what we are now reading almost daily in the newspapers is threatening to happen, namely that locations are closed and most massively reduced places are reduced. The list of establishments with problems and save jobs is getting longer every day. The question is whether these developments are really new. Are they surprising? – No, they are not quite surprising because economic researchers in this country have predicted this development, this second pleite wave in autumn and winter for weeks and months. We in Parliament too have repeatedly warned of this second wave of pleite. Economic research predicts a record unemployment for this winter, a record unemployment rate of more than half a million people who are without jobs in Austria. They don't have it easy because the economic crisis does not resolve from today to tomorrow. It will be very difficult for these people to get a job again in the next few months and years. That is why our country urgently needs an active, strong, forward-looking labour market policy, a far-sighted labour market policy and a plan. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Press conferences, announcements, promises and just billions of euros alone do not yet make smart, forward-looking labour market policies and do not create jobs in the future. I would like to tell you, Mr President, that you now have a great opportunity, at the latest, to present a budget, which is the total fight against this huge unemployment in Austria. What does a budget need to be able to do in this crisis? – At least it must save jobs and businesses, quite clearly, it must secure income, especially small and medium-sized incomes, in order to strengthen the purchasing power, the gasoline of the economy, and a budget in times of the historically largest economic crisis of course needs the historically largest economic and investment package, Mr. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But the turquoise-green budget you presented yesterday shows something different and is, rather, a manifesto of broken promises. [[Abg. Hanger: You haven't read the budget yet, have you?]] A promise that the chancellor made only two weeks ago – late, but still, I must say, seven months of Corona crisis, unemployment already beyond 500 000, even at the beginning of the crisis –: The chancellor thinks it's time to make work the chief thing. – Okay, we take note of that, alone, the question is whether this promise is an empty promise. If you look more closely, you can see that the labour market budget you put in your budget, if you look at it per capita, is smaller than the 2017 budget. In 2017, there was no record year in terms of a crisis, an economic crisis and no record year in terms of unemployment, but the AMS budget per capita was higher than in your budget today. That cannot be the answer to a record unemployment, Minister of State! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you look at the group among the unemployed, which is now particularly difficult and will be even more difficult to find a job in the next few years, namely the group of older long-term unemployed, you wonder: What do you have to say? What do you say? You these people? What means do you make available for this? I could not find any additional resources in your budget. With regard to your tax reduction: Your government programme is already a few months old, and there is a so-called second stage of the tax reform for 2021, 2022 inside, but in your budget this tax reduction for small and medium-sized incomes is no longer possible. Especially now, it would be so important to secure, stabilise and strengthen the purchasing power to boost the economy, but this promised tax reduction is simply cancelled – incomprehensible right now. [[Abg. Wöginger: It's already implemented!]] Third promise: Four months ago, in June of this year, there was a government clause. [[Abg. Wöger: That was important!]] One of the big outcomes you have presented was the climate protection billion – additional resources to an enormous extent for the climate. But neither I nor economic researchers can find these additional resources, these sustainable plans for the next few years beyond the Corona crisis to save the climate and create new jobs in these areas. [[Abg. Wöinger: You have to read that!]] [[Abg. Hanger: Maybe read the budget once!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] This too is a given opportunity – quite clearly, Minister of State. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Just as little can we find additional resources for the care reform you so often promised. I can remember the first PR and television appearance that the Federal Government – the chancellor with the vice chancellor – had in a nursing home. The big project of the turquoise-green Federal Government: Why then do you not find great resources in your large budget, Mr. Federal Minister, if you care so important? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Luke Hammer.]] On one occasion you have also stressed several times on the part of the government groups: that we have to say thank you for a well-financed, well-functioning public health system. Thanks to this solidary funded health system, Austria came through this crisis at least at the beginning better than other countries. I wonder, however, why this area does not receive any additional means of security – the hospitals, the social security funds that have been twice exploited by the Corona crisis – because there are hundreds of millions in the federal states, in the hospitals. If you are serious about your praise of the Austrian health system, this should also be reflected in your budget. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister, I also ask you to: Finally, end this policy of empty promises! Finally take responsibility – responsibility for the future of Austria! Take the opportunity that you now have with this budget, which is a historic budget in view of the great challenges! Take this opportunity and make a budget that shows effect! Make a budget that is forward-looking, make a budget that is a fight against this unemployment! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e2076	Klubobmann Member of Parliament Herbert Kickl has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e2101	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to invite everyone off the record – by the way also the ORF – to take a look at the Austrian People's Party sector together with me. Maybe you can capture the pictures with a camera swivel. – Mr Wöinger, I am quite concerned! What's going on in your area? Louter demasked people! Good people without a mask! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Yes, great, what happened! The harmless, the economic hazards, the workplace hazards and the health hazards are in the sector of the Austrian People's Party! . I therefore call this because it was the vocabulary with which your honourable Members, Black, showed their fingers to all the other Members in this House a little more than a week ago and put them as a health hazard. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] [[with the pointing finger pointing twice into the plenary]] [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: Mr. colleague,...!]] That's why I'm holding this mirror for you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The whole thing is all the worse, Mr deputies and colleague Wöginger, because I no longer know whether it is the August Wöginger or the Wögest Auginger whom one speaks, because that is a divided personality. [[Rejoicing with members of FPÖ and NEOS.]] With one of the two, I was in the coalition, the other is sitting opposite me now.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e2166	I will give you a call for order, Mr. Klubobmann Kickl.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e2205	Mr Wöginger – however – today, the situation regarding the infections is worse than it was more than a week ago. The chancellor threatens with drastic measures and you sit there without masks. I find this very interesting! What's going on in the ÖVP? – They themselves do not follow your own recommendations. That means nothing but that the Austrian People's Party itself does not believe in the effectiveness of the measures it wants to order the Austrians. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wookers:... senseless...!]] It is necessary to show this hypocrisy here once. That's how disbelief works, so chaos works, so hypocrisy works. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wöger.]] I am holding this mirror before you, simply because it is necessary, and unlike you, I am not using the Rules of Procedure to do so. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wöger: Yes, yes!]] So, ladies and gentlemen, now I come to the Minister for Finance: I brought a small list, I call it the best of horrors, because, as something else, one cannot describe an illustration of what is happening in the domestic labour market. [[Abg. Wooger:... 23 percent!]] MAN Steyr: minus 2 300 jobs,Swarovski: minus 1 000 jobs, FACC Ried: minus 650 jobs, Casinos Austria: minus 600, Voestalpine: minus 550, Laudamotion: minus 370, ATB Spielberg: minus 300 – and so on, and so on; and what I have just read to you here is only the tip of the iceberg! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smart]] These are the major cases that create it in the light of the public and which are discussed in the media. There are thousands of small companies, individual companies, who are the same, who already have the water on their way to the neck, but who never find a mention in the media. However, these figures and unemployment statistics are in fact the figures of this Federal Government's policy of 2020. That is the unstained truth behind the turquoise-green corona policy in this Republic! I tell you, your budget is also committed to finding this valley ride and this crash course its continuation in 2021. [[Abg. Wöginger: The FPÖ is on a valley trip!]] Against this background, and to be here, as you did yesterday, and to speak of responsibility for jobs and for the location, yes, ladies and gentlemen, this is a combination of dangerous refusal of reality with propagandistic cynicism of a federal government. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wöger.]] Cynicism is a good keyword. I listened very closely to you yesterday, Minister of Finance, and I listened very carefully: Of course, you are not to blame for the just outlined disaster regarding the labour market. You're only the Federal Government, you're just sitting on the billions, you've only been making crisis management for many months. You're not to blame, you can't do it. You are only responsible if anything goes positive. The Austrians are to blame! Blame are those who are so irrantious that they dare to criticize your crisis management! To blame are those who do not want to be taken away from fundamental and freedom rights, and to blame those who have not ceased to use their own brains to think, just as the Chancellor of a TV editor recommended – I also tell you, Mr Wöginger, if you have already forgotten it. [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Wöginger and Lausch.]] You, Mr. Finanzminister, spoke yesterday about climate ungrateful people, about culprits. - Yeah, you know what? You and the entire government, you're a single collection of responsibilities. [[Abg. Lausch: I believe the Wöginger!]] This is the striking term: Liability denyrs, with V like a People's Party. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's always the same thing we're experiencing. It doesn't matter if it's Ischgl, where we know in the meantime that the Federal Chancellor of the Superpreacher has been in Europe, whether it's been this Kleinwalsertal attraction or whether we're talking about the hundreds of thousands of unemployed in this country, about the collating damage – it's always the other ones. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] There's always a perpetrator-offering reverse, the government's not responsible for anything, it's always the stupid people. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wöger.]] – This will not work so easily, Mr Wöginger, and you will be presented with the invoice. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Further call of the Abg. Wöger.]] Yesterday, you're making your budget speech and juggling with billions of money. It's always the same cuckoos you're playing around in the area, so you can see as little as possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] It is always the same content in new packaging, this time it is called budget 2021. And what's in there? – A part is the real money. This is the part where you have had nothing better to do than create an elaborate construction to favor your friends, to create your interests, to withdraw parliamentary control. In good German, Colleague Wöinger: Small gifts receive the friendship and great willingness of your supporters in the background. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] – This is the system of your financial assistance! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second component – yes, please! – are the great, the so generous discharges, the support and the guarantees. – Yes, that is the one that entrepreneurs themselves have to earn, that is the generous abandonment of the taxation of profits that are not at all available, and that is the further drive of entrepreneurship into debt. That's the second part of the package for which you're knocking on the chest yourself. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We can also look at what there are additional measures, regardless of Corona. There's something to be found, Mr Wöginger. In fact, there are parts of a tax reform. But this one left Hubert Fuchs in his drawer when we left the government, and from there you brought her out again. Don't always put foreign feathers on the hat! There is 0 percent self-sufficiency in this government constellation. [[Cheerfulness and call of the Abg. Wöger.]] And if you already take over content from us, then you would have immediately drawn forward the second part of the tax reform, then we would have generated purchasing power! – That is what is urgently needed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Yes, so it is, by the way, also with regard to the increase in pensions for which you now praise yourself. It is the achievement of a free State Secretary – I say it only once again. They were busy with Novomatic and other things. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Wöger.]] The only concrete new figures that can be drawn up and recorded yesterday, Minister of Finance, are the number 12 – that refers to the 12 kilos the paper pile weighs, with the number 12 [[with hands showing about one meter]] They have been photographed – the number 25 – these are the pages you have read out quite unscrupulously – and the third number is 31 – these are the minutes you were worth talking about in the biggest crisis since the Second World War about the Austrian budget. – These are the new figures and the new findings of yesterday’s day. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] I'll tell you: The corona aid you're talking about is not a recovery measure, no medicine, it's rather a palliative accompaniment. It's a death aid, what you're offering. We asked you here a few days ago, because you have to admit it: 3 000 euros: This is the average payout from the hardness fund. 7 000 euros: This is the average payout from the fixed-cost subsidy. – Yes, that’s quite different from the billions you always carry like a monstrom, that’s quite different. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ottenschlager.]] These are ridiculous amounts for the entrepreneurs, who run away from the costs and who break away their revenue and for whom you fail to achieve it, finally make rest, order, planning security and trust – that is what would be necessary. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cannon]] [[Abg. Wöginger: The FPÖ Vienna...!]] I think it is particularly bizarre if the Minister of Finance is standing here as yesterday, and I say that it was quite impossible for him to present a budget in spring because there was a lack of planning certainty. [[Ongoing calls and calls between ODP and FPÖ representatives.]] Yes, but this lack of planning certainty for all entrepreneurs is exactly what this Federal Government has been producing in the collective for many months every day and which leads the country into an economic abuse. [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] Then another word to MAN in Steyr: The loss of these jobs has nothing to do with Corona, which is a failure of your location policy. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Smart]] This means that you will not only destroy unnecessarily jobs in the country with your false corona policy, but also your location policy is not suitable to bring new attractive companies and thus jobs into the country, no, rather it still sells those we have in the country, and with them the jobs. – This has been put to the fore by MAN. These companies then go to Poland or Turkey. Poland and Turkey are the countries where you, as Minister of Finance, are generous by the increased net contributions of the European Union, since we are financing these beneficiary countries that then compete with us. In these 750 billion euros in connection with the European Union's corona fund, funds are also in the way for these countries, which have nothing better to do than compete and become a good location for those who leave Austria. Too much economic competence and too much location assurance quality can only be congratulated, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Finanzminister, your budgetary policy is supposed to clear a fire on the labour market and in the business sector in Austria – that is what you tell everywhere. Please stop – you and your colleagues in this chaotic government – working daily with your panic and with your murky management on the other side of this fire, because that's the one you're doing, just like you're working on destroying the winter season in tourism – and then stand here and regret the negative effects! That's not gonna happen. You can save billions of contributions, you can calm hundreds of thousands of uncertain people if you protect those who are worthy of protection, but let the others work and live as normally as it is possible. This is the way that will lead us out of the crisis. This is the only way we can get out of this triple A from unemployment, dependence and alms, Mr Wöginger, just so and not through a vaccine, as you may believe.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e2484	Klubobfrau Sigrid Maurer has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e2510	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear sisters! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] In contrast to the previous speaker, I really want to talk about the budget. Today, we are beginning to debate a budget that is the right answer to the crisis, namely the climate crisis, as Markus Marterbauer said in the morning “Morgenjournal”. The real winner, he meant, is climate minister Leonore Weessler. – Of course, this is not right, because if the climate wins, we all win. Fighting the climate crisis is a task and the responsibility of all of us, and this is illustrated in this budget. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This budget is a green budget, it's a climate budget. There is as much money available for the ecological turnaround as never before: for the expansion of public transport, for thermal renovation, for the energy transition. This budget with this great climate focus is, of course, also the answer to the other crises that we are facing, which unfortunately will also concern us in the coming year and in the coming years. The pandemic has produced an employment crisis of enormous scale, an economic crisis that is hard on us all, which we must face with all our strength. We must invest ourselves out of this crisis, and this is the best thing we do by focusing on future issues, on the topic of the future, namely climate protection. We have the responsibility to leave the next generations a habitable planet and to stop the destruction of the environment. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The expansion of public transport and the reconstruction of our energy systems create jobs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] In the 700 million euros of work foundation, we will organize precisely those re-trainings that will enable many, many people to return to a new industry from their current jobs or the jobs they have lost, in green jobs, to be re-trained, to gain hope. Yes, these crises, the high level of unemployment create uncertainty, and they also create precarious situations, for example, for families where a large proportion of income is lost. We have already put in a lot of measures this year to prevent people from slipping into poverty. We paid 450 euros in addition for the unemployed, we paid 360 euros for each child, we increased the small pensions and the minimum pension disproportionately. The women particularly affected by poverty will have 1 000 euros per month in the future, and this is an important measure. The increase in the compensation allowance also leads to a rise in minimum security. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, in order to be able to support families at risk of poverty in the future, we have committed a further EUR 90 million in this budget for additional measures. We have mastered the first phase of the Corona crisis well, also thanks to the tireless use of many people who are otherwise less visible, such as the caregivers who make such an important contribution to the older generations. We know that we urgently need young people in this area, and we urgently need a training offensive – also in this budget, through the work foundation and with additional money for the care of the Social Ministry. Of course, Minister of Health Rudi Anschober also has the necessary money with this budget – August Wöginger has already sketched it – available to deal with the health problems that remain. However, there are also important increases in other areas. In Coronafrühling, it was often the mothers who took on responsibility, who took double, triple loads to take care of the home schooling of their children. The Corona crisis has also shown pressure points. We are not yet in digitalisation where we should be, and in this budget there is also a focus in the field of education in the field of digitalization in schools. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On a second point in the field of education: In order to improve the situation for those students who often have the most difficult, for those students whose parents cannot help them well in the homeworks that often come from difficult conditions, we have integrated the project 100 schools with special challenges in the government program. Scientific support will support those schools that have special needs to meet a particular challenge, and 15 million euros are available for this. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Science is also provided. With 1.2 billion euros, we ensure that we can invest in future topics, in research and in good education, in high-quality education for students. There are many other important things in this budget. When we entered this government, for example, we also agreed that the budget for violence and for women will be increased substantially. As early as this first year, we have increased the funds for the protection of violence, including for the time-use study that we urgently need, by almost 50 percent. Today, 19 women have already been murdered: Each individual is too much, and this budget also provides for means to increase equality and the protection of violence accordingly. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We remember that at the beginning of this year, former Minister of Justice Clemens Jabloner feared the silent death of justice should the budget remain so low. Alma Zadić fought for it, and at the time she managed to increase the judicial budget accordingly. This budget will also further increase the funding for justice, so that our justice can be well placed to deal with legal matters in our society. Last but not least: An area which has been particularly affected by Corona concerns the cultural life that we all lack. The field of art and culture has in this budget the greatest equipment he ever had to be able to revive. It will take a few months, but in 2021 we will be able to invest a lot so that cultural life will flourish again. The challenges are great, it is also this budget. With this budget, we set the necessary priorities in order not only to deal with the crisis in this crisis, but also the future – a viable future, a solidary future in an intact environment, as it is so beautiful. I look forward to an intensive debate over the next few weeks on how we shape it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e2631	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e2658	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Before I talk about the budget, I would like to make a very urgent request to all the Members of this House: The theme of mask must not become a polarizing concept – I don't know what. But I also look at the ÖVP, because you did it the same way. So if we now raise the issue of oral nose protection to a flag question, we will certainly not get out of the crisis together. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Mr Finanzminister, I heard your budget speech with great interest yesterday. Those were many words, it was very calmly spoken, but it is amazing ambitionless what you have presented to us there, and I will execute why. In my opinion, have In the beginning, you forgot the most important point, although you have addressed the Austrians, also the taxpayers, but you have forgotten to thank the people in Austria, the employees, consumers, the entrepreneurs, the entrepreneurs, for making their contributions, and, to a large extent, you have been happy to make a voluntary contribution, so that you can distribute other people's money here. [[Congratulations to the NEOS and to Mr Hammerschmid and Mr Oberrauner]] So I'd like to make this up to you: A warm thanks to all taxpayers in our country! It is thanks to you – the Federal Government likes to attach itself to the flags – that we are in the budgetary situation at all, in order to be able to act in this way. Indeed, it has not been the performance of the Federal Government, and it has not been for years, that we had a consolidated budget, but it has happened mainly – that is to say, all economists – through additional revenue due to your achievements. Thank you, taxpayers and taxpayers! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] I can also tell you this because yesterday it was said: thanks to a sound budgetary policy in recent years. – This was somehow praised in the form of self- praise – the government can do well, the ÖVP can do that best. That's the numbers, I didn't write the annual figures on it, but you can see: [[Keeping a table with the title ‘2020/2021 Historical budget deficits’ and a column chart in height]] [[Abg. Wöginger: It's very red!]] 2020, we are here now, here there was a slight surplus, here a balanced budget, and I would say once that the ÖVP finance ministers have sometime started here. [[Exploring the explanation on the column diagram with your finger]] The achievements in the consolidation of the budget were not so great, but it was you, ladies and gentlemen, with your taxes. [[Congratulation with the NEOS]] [[Abg. Wöginger: It's not pink anymore, it's red!]] – Don’t worry, Mr Wöginger, the responsibility of social democracy, as far as these debts are concerned, we will not forget as NEOS, but this responsibility lies with you. [[Abg. Wöginger: It's very red!]] [[again pointing to the column chart]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: But it's very red already!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ottenschlager.]] They have presented a crisis budget, which is something but nothing else. Of course, you have justified this crisis budget with the pandemic – clearly – but above all you are very quick to push it into a global economic crisis – you spoke yesterday about the global impact. What I have missed is a confession to the fact that it was also you with your very sharp lockdown, which ultimately caused companies to fall into the crisis, that revenue was broken away from one day to the other, that costs went on and people lost their job. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Ottenschlager, Mr Pfurtscheller and Mr Wöginger.]] To push all this to a global crisis seems to me a little too cheap, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties. I would also like to look very consciously at Germany, where with it and also with the responsibility a government on the question: Lockdown, yes or no?, has, quite differently been handled. Health Minister Spahn apologized and said: Yeah, that was too sharp. – He also said something I find remarkable, because he said already in February or March: “We will probably have to forgive each other in a few months.” – See, that’s quite another – a humble, responsible – approach and access to this crisis as your self-glorification and self- praise. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It also surprised me to hear from the mouth of an ÖVP finance minister that you say in connection with the record expenditure made, that you are proud of it. I can't understand that, I don't know what can make you proud to have record spending. It is necessary, but it would be much better – and I would be proud of it – if we did not do it, we would have companies that do well, create jobs, secure jobs, and have enough free jobs, so that people will have jobs again and thus have their own incomes on their own. So pride is probably the wrong word. You have put all your services under the motto “cost it what it wants”. Look, I find this problematic, because what does it mean to cost what it wants? – This is actually a confession that you can also go into a really excessive debt policy without a commitment to a certain solidity of the budget. I think the sentence would be much better: Cost it what is necessary! I said, Whatever it takes!, which is also something quite different, in the sense of: Whatever is necessary to catch up on what you, among other things, – I do not want to make any sense that we have also contributed to these sharp measures – with the lockdown, while at the same time eliminating the claim for compensation above all the entrepreneur. The approach “cost of what it wants” is dangerous and the lures of the filler horn are of course very big, we have seen in the past. But above all, it is a crisis budget and not an upturn budget. What do I mean by that? – I am convinced that we must keep in mind the consolidated budgets also and especially in times of crisis. I am convinced that we cannot act as if there were a comeback and everything will be just as before the crisis, if there will be a vaccine once and this virus will really be defeated. I'm convinced that we need to learn to live with this virus for many months. But this means, above all, having the courage to go into a real renewal, creating an upswing, having the courage to truly unleash this creativity and creativity. That's not going through alms, it's not by saying: You will be given!, but this is only with a discharge, with a deregulation and with a debureaucratisation. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I mean a real relief, because you regularly praise the biggest tax reforms of all time, and in truth you are making collective reforms. I have nothing against it, but you know very well that what you have now preferred is too little. I was also of the opinion that you also have to look at the middle class – you have to keep an eye on lower incomes, but you also have to keep an eye on the middle class. It's being eaten up by the cold progression. You're doing a pocket-player trick. They draw more money out of the bag every year to return it generously in their own praise, partly in small tranches. Have you, at last, the courage to have a real tax reform, a real relief for people, because despite your small collective reform, Austria remains a high tax country in Europe! If we really want to relieve, then a volume of about EUR 9 billion would be needed, and I do not see that in this budget. Last but not least, there is no major investment in the future. The topic of climate has been addressed – I am glad that there is something going on, but all the more amazing when I had to read yesterday that 11 Heads of State and Government in Europe have spoken out in a letter for a more courageous reduction of CO2 by at least 55 percent by 2030. I thought it would be nice if the Greens in Austria were in the government, because Austria was not there. [[irradiated]] These are the first steps in the right direction, but I think that a tax reform is needed in particular. It is about closing this investment gap into the future. In other countries, such as Switzerland or Sweden, the share of future investment in EUR 100 is much higher than in us. In Austria, the past is managed instead of investing in the future and in an upturn, and this is primarily about education. They have presented a crisis budget, but not an upturn budget. You have presented a crisis budget, but not a courageous step towards a restart, and you have presented a past budget and not a future budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e2815	Mr Obernosterer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e2836	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear TV viewer at home! Introducing just a few words to Mr. Klubobmann Kickl: We of the ÖVP comply with the requirements of the Minister of Health. It has been said in the Bureau here in the House that, because of the fact that glass panes have been built between Members, when we sit inside here, we can put off the mask. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] - That's correct! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Klubobmann Kickl, I will certainly not respond to your speech, but just say: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] What the people think of the politics that you have been proclaiming in recent times has been shown on Sunday in Vienna, where the bill has come! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] What people think of politics and the work of our Minister of Finance has also shown themselves on Sunday in Vienna, where the voters have expressed their opinion on this. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] Mr Finanzminister, you presented the budget yesterday in your budget speech, entitled ‘Together with the crisis’. Because of responsibility for jobs and location’. I do not want to repeat this now, but in the context of this budget that you have set up, I would just like to say: They are Finance Ministers in a difficult time, so that you have such a difficult task to do, as no one has found before you in the Second Republic. In the post-war economic development of Austria, there has only been negative economic growth twice in the mid-1970s in the period of the oil crisis – at least minus 0.4 percent – and in 2009 during the financial and economic crisis, when we had a minus growth of 3.8 percent. What's it look like now? When I was nominated as a budget speaker of the ÖVP eight months ago and was elected President of the Budget Committee after you, I certainly had other ideas for the budgets – you, Mr. Finanzminister, too. I've been self-employed for 40 years. The budget we set up in December for this year – you all know that! – we were able to throw away in April. The budget that we set up for our businesses in April can now, in autumn, we can also throw away and rebuild after this summer season. The conditions for meeting the challenge of keeping businesses over water at such a difficult time, and the challenges faced by the Minister of Finance – although the wheel is always the same, but it has a different size – have been reflected in this budget to guide this state safely through this crisis and to shape the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] What does it really look like? – As has been said, economic researchers are still expected to be 0.8 percent by March, then it was minus 7 percent, now the forecasts for this year are about minus 6.8 percent, next year, as has already been said, it should be plus 4.4 percent – once again a growth – and then 2.4 percent – the economy should recover. As I said, the budget you presented yesterday really shows in the right direction from today's point of view, that's what you see when you look at it closely. In fact, my previous speakers have only formulated sentences differently, and numbers can always be argued in this and that direction. We will only see if everything was 100% right in perhaps two, three or four years. This will show the practice. However, you, Mr Finanzminister, and your whole staff have, according to the best of their knowledge and conscience, created a budget that ensures and helps us to cope half way with this economic crisis and yet does not forget investment in the future. This government and this House have decided this March to provide an aid package for the economy and the labour market of EUR 40 billion. The government's clause was increased by EUR 10 billion, with three very clear priorities: Rescue people's lives and businesses, release of citizens' and purchasing power, and investment in the location and competitiveness. I'm always being asked outside: How can we afford that? – The good work, including budgetary work, the government has been helping us in recent years. In 2015, Austria had a government debt of about 85 percent, and in 2019 it was 70.5 percent. With this budget, which takes so much money into our hands, we then, as I said, have a debt level of 85 percent. Austria is well placed and gets money on the international market at the cheapest conditions. Ten years ago, when money was borrowed, we were still equal to the Italians, today Austria is among the best four in Europe and gets money with a minus interest rate of 0.28 percent. [[Abg. Kickl: But this has nothing to do with the... nothing!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] What are we going to do with this budget compared to the EU average? The EU average – which is the average debt relative to economic performance – is 95.1 percent. We in Austria do not need to boast, but we are still good and are in the lower range with 84 percent. It has already been carried out by the clubman, which means in figures: Today about 29 billion euros are missing, next year 20 billion euros. How are these 50 billion euros divided? – As has been said, it is not only a question of leading through the crisis, but it is so divided that it can also invest in the future and help companies to get over this crisis. To conclude: For Austria, the current situation is almost even more difficult than for other countries in Europe. First of all, our value added depends mainly on the export, that is, we depend on the purchase of goods, and second, we are a tourist country. The value added in tourism accounts for 16 percent of us, compared to that in the Netherlands and Denmark, it is 5 percent. In Spain, which is the Upper Tourism Country, tourism has no greater share than in Austria. That is why it is important – and this is what we see in the figures and in the budget presented here – to: Let's stick to the rules, let's see that we keep the corona numbers low! I'm just telling you what this means for tourism: Austria has about 152 million nights, 70 percent of them from abroad. If we do not succeed in reducing the number of infected people, we are on the red list, i.e. 70 percent of the guests are not allowed to enter Austria. I really expect this responsibility from all of you so that value creation increases again and that we can look back to the future in a positive way. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e2956	Mr Klubobmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e2978	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I have now listened closely to the speakers before me, and there were, in fact, very different views on this budget which you have presented, Mr Federal Minister. I want to try it from the point of view of people who have to get up every day in the early morning and work hard for their money, and there it can be summarized as follows: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Niss]] Self-task, Federal Minister – the Republic’s task in the biggest job crisis that this Republic has ever experienced. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cannon]] This must be said quite clearly about this budget, Mr. Federal Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Haubner.]] It's not a coincidence that this happened to you so to speak. You have already happened in this period, I say so, and now you are presenting a budget that no longer provides a cent for labour market policy than in 2017, and in 2017, we had high-economy, Federal Minister, we had low unemployment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] In the largest ecological, economic crisis, in the largest economic crisis in our Republic, you present the same as it was already in 2017, and I say quite frankly to you: This is not how it is done, Minister of Finance, so people have nothing to do with this budget! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: I’m getting a grudge!]] Not only that you don't do anything for people who have to get up in the early morning and work hard for their money, but you didn't, on the other hand, make sure that at least those who aren't somehow affected by this crisis don't benefit from the crisis. You have not made sure that state aid is linked to a ban on bonuses, you have not made sure that state aid is linked to a ban on dividends. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] These people care for you, and those who have to work hard do not matter to you, Mr Federal Minister, and this expresses this budget quite clearly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] They should have prevented these people from benefiting from the crisis. But you did not do that, Minister of Finance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That you are not interested in how people across the Republic are doing is also symbolic. I mean, it's funny and nice that you have time to visit the zoo in Vienna on the occasion of the expansion – but where were you in Spielberg? Where were you in Spielberg, where the people are desperate, Mr. Federal Minister? Where have you been where over 300 people become unemployed, where entire families become unemployed? [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: Where was the Lord...?]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Gerstl and Mr Wöginger]] Where were you, Minister of State? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These people have been waiting for a reaction from the Federal Chancellor for eight weeks and nobody, nobody has helped you, no one has responded. You have to say that quite clearly. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] What has surprised me very much – I use the word that way – is already that the ÖVP now says: What we do is the best of all time. - I mean, that's what you always say, yeah. It doesn't have to be surprising, you're right if you turn this over, Mr. Wöginger, but you have to see if what happened is really so good. [[Abg. Wöginger: You say it too, but it's not true!]] If you look around and look at Germany, you can see that they have better economic growth, negative growth, that they have a better unemployment rate, that they have a better budget balance and that they are also better at consumer prices. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ottenschlager]] The difference is probably that or is quite certain that they have a government that works serially, and in us a show team is at work; and this, Mr. Federal Minister, is the difference. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wöinger:... Speech!]] Please stop the fairy tale that we got through the crisis so well, because that's just not right! That can't do your budget either, on the contrary, it will make people in the country poorer, it will make the Republic poorer and it won't help the people who get up every day in the early morning and work hard at all. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e3152	Member of the Fuchs has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e3174	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Mr. Minister of Finance! High house! Estimated Austrians! If Klubobmann Wöginger thinks that we have managed well in recent years, so we could afford the deficit – the same is what Mr Obernosterer said. and the Minister of Finance has spread this fairy tale in yesterday's budget speech – then you have to make it right: It is true that we made the trend change with the turquoise blue double budget 2018/2019. We have achieved a plus, but we have not accumulated 21 billion euros of reserves, which we can now spend so easily. [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and the representatives of the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ottenschlager.]] That is, what we have heard here is the wrong reason. This draft budget reflects the helplessness and inaction of the Federal Government. Once again, billions are distributed under the title of corona aid measures which the Federal Chancellor and the Minister of Finance have already distributed in fifty press conferences. Unfortunately, the money does not come to the entrepreneurs, as the Minister of Finance's reply to the question of last week's budget has shown. Each entrepreneur has so far received an average of EUR 3 000 from the hardness fund and EUR 7 000 fixed-cost grant. It's too much to die, but too little to survive. We have the largest economic crisis in the Second Republic – around 410 000 people are unemployed or in training, almost 300,000 people are in short-time work and no one knows at present how many of the short-time jobs have to change to unemployment at the end. We also have to expect a large insolvency for 2021, and there are only insufficient countermeasures and no coherent overall approach to all these challenges. Why is it possible to announce the MAN site guarantee in Steyr, for which no concessions have been made, after only two years? – There you need to talk to VW managers about plain text. We must not let that happen! [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] Major parts of the production in Steyr are to be moved to Poland and Turkey. This means that 2 300 jobs are lost, and that has nothing to do with Corona at all. I am also curious about the value of the AUA site guarantee, which has negotiated part of the Federal Government and Öbag with Lufthansa. Production at ATB in Spielberg has already been discontinued, the machines are to be dismantled and rebuilt at the ATB production sites in Poland and Serbia. 360 people become unemployed, and this has nothing to do with Corona at all. It cannot be that hundreds of millions of euros will flow from EU aid to countries that will make us more dependent on our jobs. That's where we pay Austrians double. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Our Minister of Finance has also negotiated badly in the EU budget. We will transfer 400 million euros more to Brussels every year from 2021 – money that we would urgently need in Austria. The doubling of the foreign disaster fund is also a step in the wrong direction, we need every cent in Austria. In view of the fact that attracting the economic location is one of the major objectives of the government's government programme, the Federal Government's performance in this regard is a declaration of bankruptcy at both national and EU level. Especially curious is a broadcast by the Minister of Finance from last Friday – I quote –: “At the same time, we have also set conscious priorities regardless of the Corona pandemic. We strengthen competitiveness [...]. Not only do we want to get through this crisis well, but we want it strengthened.” – Mr. Minister of Finance, believe that I'm sure you won't be able to do everything yourself! How do you strengthen competitiveness with this budget? The economy was driven to the wall by this federal government. Entrepreneurs were degraded to beggars and despaired at the bureaucracy and the transparency of the assistance of the Minister of Finance. In the case of the corona aid measures, nothing will work rapidly and unbureaucratically. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] With this black and green federal government, we are neither well through the crisis nor strengthened from the crisis. We need to attract the business location and improve the environment so that local businesses survive the economic crisis, foreign entrepreneurs settle in Austria, and no more entrepreneurs move their production abroad. An advantage of tax reform, particularly tax structural reform, would be a step in the right direction. We also need a consumer turbo, such as the Austrian thousands. That would be the right answer. Each Austrian citizen is to be issued vouchers in a total value of 1 000 euros, which can only be redeemed in local and Austrian establishments, but not in online trade. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A damocles sword in the current economic forecasts is a possible second lockdown. This second lockdown would, of course, be the death blow for the domestic economy. Especially worrying in this context are the ongoing travel warnings against Austria or against our federal states. These travel warnings may also be a return carriage of the neighbouring states for the partly undifferentiated travel warnings by the Federal Government in summer. For example, the travel warning for all of Croatia in the summer was overhasted, overlaid and not comprehensible. A partial travel warning for the affected areas in Croatia would have been perfect and would still be rich. Austria is currently much worse than Croatia, which is why the standard travel warning for Croatia should be lifted immediately. We also need a uniform and sensible procedure in the EU in the case of travel warnings. We need to ensure planning security for the economy and should not forget that planning security is also a crucial location factor, otherwise we will be presented with the invoice as part of winter tourism. The Minister of Finance expects a budget deficit of almost EUR 21 billion for 2021. Public debt will account for about 85 percent of GDP. How all this is to be financed and who finally has to pay for the cost of this crisis, however, the Minister of Finance is silent. However, it must be clear: There must be no tax gifts to multinational large companies at the expense of Austrian workers and small businesses. There must be no renunciation in relation to taxes. The FPÖ will also not give up the fight against the transparency of the government parties in the allocation of the corona aid billions. This is the Austrian tax money, and transparency and control have not yet been damaged. It therefore still needs a parliamentary Covid-19 subcommittee, which is equipped with appropriate control rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e3298	Mr Schwarz has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e3324	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Dear High House! Dear Seers! In recent months, we have seen some paradoxical effects of the Corona crisis on the environment and climate. For example, we can watch dolphins in Trieste or see that the Canal Grande also has a floor. However, we have seen above all that CO2 emissions have fallen dramatically: minus 1.6 billion tonnes of CO2 emissions in the first half of 2020 compared to the previous year, in about 9 percent of global emissions. In the short term, a recession can thus reduce emissions. However, this is neither a great art nor a sustainable one, and thirdly it is particularly painful. The art and the great challenge in reducing emissions are to decouple economic growth and pollution. In this sense, the budget presented by the Federal Government is a milestone, because it succeeds in providing an impressive response to this challenge, in particular in the context of dealing with the corona crisis, namely that growth in the economy is possible for employment to rise again and at the same time the emissions remain low. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] This budget already sets the course in the crisis in such a way that we grow out more sustainable than we entered this crisis. That's how it looks from above. But how does it turn out in detail? – Take, for example, the big worry child of the Austrian climate policy, the transport: In this area, there is the challenge of reducing emissions while at the same time stimulating the economy, creating regional jobs and strengthening national purchasing power. How's it going? – By investing massively in the rail, in electric mobility and gentle mobility, vulgo Wheel. This budget provides for: 40 million euros for cycling, which is a tenfold increase in the budget since 2019, and 40 million euros for the promotion of electric mobility. In the field of public transport, there is an expansion and attraction of several hundred million euros, the increase of 95 million euros for the 1-2-3 ticket mentioned earlier, 124 million euros for the electrification of private railways or 92 million euros for the expansion and compression of timetables. The new ÖBB Framework Plan is difficult for more than EUR 17 billion. This leads to a turnaround in the transport sector. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The same – without going through it now – applies, of course, to the other major sectors with significant CO2 emissions, whether in the area of buildings where we have budgeted 350 million euros for thermal renovation, whether in the field of electricity generation – still one of the largest issuers in Austria – where we have provided 62 million euros for the expansion of renewable energy, or in the field of industry, also very central, where there are 110 billion euros in addition to promoting climate-friendly technologies. There are often also investments that create products and technologies that are also requested abroad, and this creates an increase in the competitiveness of the Austrian industry by strengthening export demand. Mrs Klubobfrau Meinl-Reisinger, of course, the collapse of export demand is an important and, so to speak, dramatic element of our corona crisis and has dramatic consequences. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] – Yes, yes, but in this situation we already have a significant share of the fall in our GDP in export demand. With this investment in the future, also in this There is a response to this budget. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] At the same time, these exports can also help reduce global emissions. This is going a little bit toward FPÖ: They often claim that, so to speak, little Austria cannot make a contribution in the world. – With these exports, which can almost also contribute to bringing climate-friendly technologies to other countries, we are also able to reduce emissions worldwide. A total of more than EUR 1 billion is foreseen for climate protection in this budget. The government is thus taking an important step towards transformation. An annual climate billion – to say it to Werner Kogler – is certainly more a womb than a claw. That's what most people will see. However, what I heard a little from the previous speeches is that, although climate billions and other investments in the future are not very small, their volume, in connection with massive bridging aid and in particular the deficit of 21 billion euros, is not large in relation to the relationship. – But that’s where you ask yourself: What happens to these bridging aids for the companies and the unemployed affected by Corona, with short-time work, with the fixed-cost subsidy, with tax subsidies? – They are not lost, but they support the private sector by means of public budget, and this, of course, costs money, but at the same time enables workers and businesses to invest in the economy again. That's good for itself, but it's especially good – art comes back to play – if you're able to control these investments as well. For this, there is another lever in the budget, namely that private investment is guided in such a way that it almost contributes to our growing out of the crisis in the right direction. The best example is the investment premium. The investment premium alone mobilises EUR 5 billion in private capital to drive green investment. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Important for this great transformation, which we are standing before, of course, is not just capital. Clearly, it takes budgetary resources and it also needs private capital, but it also needs people, it needs the labour force – in this transformation, it needs particularly skilled workers. This is also foreseen in the budget, namely the 700 million euros of which 350 million euros are already budgeted for 2021. This ensures, on the one hand, that we fight unemployment and create employment, and at the same time that people, this skilled workforce, become the engine for this transformation. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This is labour market policy with far-reaching vision, which your club wife, Mr Leichtfried, has called for. This budget therefore sets a number of key levers for successful transformation, creates jobs at the same time, and ensures sustainable economic growth. Thank you to the Federal Government and to you, Mr. Minister, and your employees! – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e3425	Members of the European Parliament are speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e3451	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Let's start with the good news today, and the good news is clear: We have a budget. – Yes, some of us now smile in the room, because Mr Blümel knows it quite differently. It is obviously not a matter of course. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the NEOS and with representatives of the FPÖ.]] We all remember the spring when it was called: Yes, my goodness, all this is so difficult with these figures in a crisis!, which is why we got a draft that the Minister himself has already called old paper. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] So thank you very much, Minister, for respecting Parliament's constitutional sovereignty when it comes to the decision-making of this federal budget. [[Abg. Wöginger: We always said that!]] However, it is already over with the progress made in this budget, because this draft budget is actually the opposite of what we were expecting here today. What we would need, what we really need, are innovative approaches, new ideas, future strategies that will help us out of this massive crisis. We need, so to speak, a screenplay, a vision, as we do in ten years' time, that we may be at home in a wealthy country – with a competitive economy, with a high level of employment, good jobs and, as I wish, with the best public education system. That's where we have to go! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Unfortunately, this is not really legible in this draft budget, Mr Finanzminister. The plan, how to go the way there, is completely missing. What you're presenting here is simply more of the same. It's a little more corona-short work, it's the fixed-cost grant – all good and right, hopefully it also comes this time –, it's mainly millions of expenses without strategy, millions of expenses with the casting can – and we already know that. That is to say, it is not only a weak performance that you deliver here from our point of view, but it is in the truest sense of the word a no-future budget that you present; a no-future budget with which this federal government is really at risk of the fact that competitiveness and prosperity in this country – and thus ultimately social peace in that country – are at risk. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Hanger: You don't believe what you're saying now!]] The biggest deficit in this budget is not the difference between revenue and expenditure, ladies and gentlemen, the biggest deficit is that we have completely forgotten the issues of the future. [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: That's not true at all!]] [[Abg. Hanger: You haven't read it!]] That is why, of course, we have a better proposal, which we have also put on the table: We propose a building budget, an upturn budget, a reconstruction budget. From our point of view, we need four main pillars: On the one hand, it takes investment, smart investment, on the other hand it needs relief, it needs reforms, and of course it also needs control and transparency. [[Abg. Brandweiner: She really didn't read it!]] As far as investing is concerned, we know the comparison figures – our club woman has already mentioned it. We know them at EU and OECD level, and we see very clearly where we would need to catch up. Of course, we start with education again. In education, for example, much more money is invested in Sweden and Switzerland: 15 percent of government expenditure, for example, in Switzerland – with us it is less than 10 percent. We are even below the EU average, and of course this is not only unfortunate, it makes it really difficult, because – which is urgently necessary – to go the way into the future. We need to do something urgently! The next example, which really follows, is investment in infrastructure and, above all, in research and development. We are also in the back of the EU average, and Switzerland and Sweden, of course, show it once again how to do it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Niss]] There is also a way that would be very, very much to do. And then, of course, there is a point where we are at the front, where we are above the EU average in expenditure – yes, that's not really surprising now – these are the pensions. 25 percent of the budget in Austria goes for pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to look at this, of course, and there you have to dare reforms – because if we look at the figures on future investment, then we all know: This is, of course, the money that is important for young people for the next generations, and there we really have a need to catch up on the one hand – and on the other hand, we see the pensions that devour a lot of money in Austria. Easy to compare: Of 100 euros spent, 25 euros are spent in pensions and 6 euros in investments. That's what we're gonna do here. That's why the next point is: It needs reforms. It needs courageous reforms: a pension reform, a federalism reform and, yes, an ecological tax reform with a CO2 price – we also stand for it. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Fischer.]] As has already been said, of course, it also needs discharges. That means nothing but that we have to relieve businesses, but of course also the people: Lower taxes and additional wage costs, less bureaucracy, at last the abolition of cold progression; and it also needs fiscal framework conditions for entrepreneurs who help them bring capital back to businesses – our proposals to put our requests on the table – because only in this way will we be able to boost the economy in a sustainable way. Now, many will say: This is not a rocket science, and the Federal Minister or the Federal Government has said it anyway. - Yes, but speeches are not enough! You have to do it at last! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] What you did is – and of course you were quick –: They have created the breeding ground for friendly business. It worked wonderful! Yes, ladies and gentlemen, of course I am talking about the questionable and opaque construction, the Cofag. Billions disappear in this black box without parliamentary control! No one knows who gets the money, why the money is paid out or why it is not paid out. [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: You could have gone to the advisory board!]] – We don’t play with that anymore, ladies and gentlemen! We are also calling for an accompanying budget committee to monitor all the measures, all the funds paid out in the Corona crisis. That's what it takes! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude now – yes, they say so, the others say so: [[Call the ÖVP: Finally!]] Of course, I would really like – and I think it would be quite beneficial – for us to have a finance minister who understands economic links. [[Abg. Hear: What does that mean?! ..., prepotent!]] It might even be better if he had also worked in the economy and had seen companies once from within. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] With curiosity, industriousness and, above all, passion, such deficits can certainly be offset, but seriously, Mr. Finanzminister – and I see it again today –: Do you really want that? – They really do seem unloving. They often seem as if you're not dealing with this whole thing. You sit in one of the most important positions, on one of the most important posts in this Republic, but if you don't really like this job, then you should just admit it and in the interest of the Republic to free this place. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e3647	Mrs Baumgartner is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e3675	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Values Advisors! Ladies and gentlemen! Economy is the network that carries prosperity in Austria, and every Austrian and every Austrian connects a node to this network and makes it stable and firm. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hörl.]] By Corona, this network was securely resolved, so the Federal Government has been working together with the government groups since the beginning of the spread to combat this pandemic and the resulting economic crisis. With each infection, jobs are threatened – therefore my request at this point also: Keep away, wash hands and wear mouth-nose protection where necessary, Mr. Klubobmann Herbert Kickl! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Mr Klubobmann, you stand here at the speaker's desk, are artificially excited and spew poison and galle. At the same time, they impoverish the virus and insecure and divide the population. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The Federal Government has from the outset been striving to address the negative effects of the health and economic crisis. A surplus generated became a necessary deficit because it was important to act quickly and efficiently – it cost what it wanted. It was an explanation of the determination to deal with the enormous challenge together. We have already shown that tax relief and a proper budget are possible. The aim must be to generate growth through a good location policy and to provide for any crises – which hopefully will not come so quickly. A budget surplus is not a decoration, it provides time for crisis. The lockdown – and NEOS voted in this decision at the beginning – has caused our economy to break down by 25 percent, but the gradual easing has made a significant contribution to relief and recovery. It is clear that the number of infections and the economic dynamics are linked together, so let us take care of each other and, above all, that I say in the direction of the opposition, let us consider one thing: In times like this, party-political hack really has no place! - Yes, it is! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] If we stick together, our economy will soon recover. Each individual can, through his own behaviour, help to protect jobs and save businesses in our regions. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Mrs. Klubobfrau Rendi-Wagner – she's not here now – you're right: Wifo and IHS expect a real GDP decline of around 7 percent in 2020 – but already for 2021, growth of approximately 4.5 percent is back. There will be an upsurge and the pre-crisis level will hopefully soon be reached again – this naturally depends on the number of infections. We may have reached this level again in 2022. The state aid has repaired the nodes of our network. There are measures such as tax reliefs, tax receipts and reduction of advance payments as well as payment reliefs, guarantees and liability are granted. As part of the municipal package, 91 million euros were already paid for 781 projects. This triggered a number of investments that really arrived in the local and regional economies. The rural budget will provide EUR 1.1 billion more by 2024 and will also invest in such important broadband expansion with an additional EUR 41.5 million. All these measures secure jobs and strengthen the economy, form a shield and have a volume of 50 billion euros for the years 2020 and 2021 with the 12-billion economic package. There must be help when it is necessary – however, it must not become a permanent state, it must not be a blank check and it must not lead to convenience. Dear Opposition! Please do not use your energy to misinterpret the corona measures and now this budget, but encourage people in this difficult time and do not insure them! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intervoke by Mr Loacker and Mr Meinl-Risinger.]] It cannot be said often enough: If we stick together, we make advertising for Austria, for our high-quality food and our products as well as for our country as a destination! The budget is, of course, marked by the crisis: It should bring us through well, but it should also make it come out stronger. As soon as possible, however, the Austrians must again link the nodes of our networks. The circumstances of life have changed; some of them will remain, some will be better and some will only come into swing through the crisis. Some of us have been reminded of, for example, the issue of self-sufficiency is again a term – whether it be in the health field of protective equipment and medicines or in the food supply by our farmers –: I hope that this appreciation will remain for a long time. With this budget, we look to the future: We invest in digitalisation, in education and research as well as in the labour market for greater competitiveness. There is a time after this crisis, and this budget is the number response to this crisis. It is now important to think further and set the course – and this budget sets the course. It is really incomprehensible for me that someone cannot agree to this budget. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Mr Leichtfried, you are surprised – I am also surprised! Mrs. Doppelbauer, you are speaking here and you are saying anything – it has never been estimated so much money for work and employment! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Phone call at the NEOS.]] - I did, yes! I read it! Nor has a budget been adopted with such an increase. This is done out of responsibility for the jobs and for the location Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e3776	Mr Krainer is now on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e3808	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that social democracy has not only proved here in Parliament that it assumes responsibility, that it also makes proposals, and that it has taken joint decisions here to deal with this crisis. We also do not support uncertainty – if you believe that politics is too uncertain, then should You might be talking to Chancellor Kurz and to Minister of the Interior Nehammer, who is well-known for being insecure! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] We have already made it clear last week what a budget in the crisis must be able to get out of this crisis. We have said that small incomes must first be secured, because this is about private demand and preventing the spread of poverty. Secondly, investment needs to be secured. The third pillar is to save businesses and jobs. But if you look at what the Minister of Finance has presented, you have to say: smooth not enough! Secure small incomes? – No new measure. We have clearly described a number of measures that can and should be put in place, e.g. to increase unemployment benefit to 70 percent. [[Abg. Haubner: These are different entrances!]] It is true that everyone who becomes unemployed gets almost half of his income, that is, from today on he has to get out with half the income tomorrow. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] – You can intercede anyway, but it would be better to try yourself from today to tomorrow with half the income! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another proposal we have made concerns apprenticeship training. They have halved the apprenticeship compensation for apprentices in over-company apprenticeship training. That's what we said: Let's take this cut back! – You don’t want to do that either, I don’t see anything in the budget. Small incomes are not secured in this budget. This is not happening, and this is bad, especially for the people affected by it. [[Abg. Hanger: Income increases!]] The second point concerns investment. We all know: The largest investors are the municipalities, they invest about 3 billion euros each year. We know that these investments are very, very important for the economy, for the regional economy, for businesses and for the protection of jobs. We also know: Countries and municipalities automatically lose 3 billion euros due to lower tax revenues. How much do you put in this budget? – EUR 600 million to secure these investments. That won't be enough, you know it yourself: This budget does not guarantee the ability of communities to invest. On the contrary, it will lead to much less investment in communities, which costs mainly the regional economy jobs, and that is poison in this crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: But that's not true!]] There are things that are not equal to a not enough, but a four or a three, even a two we have found in the investments: as regards the ÖBB. – Yes, that’s done, the budget is increased, about as much as you have to put it up in this situation, as measured by what the ÖBB can do. When it comes to climate protection, I would say that it is a quarter of a billion, which now comes in addition. That's not climate protection billions every year, but it's a climate protection billion divided into four years, but it's at least one step in the right direction. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] As far as public transport is concerned, it is also about a quarter of what we need. In this respect, the analysis that Minister Wiessler has achieved anything is correct, but that does not solve our problem yet. In the third area, saving businesses and jobs, nothing happens at all. We are heading towards a pleite wave, there are no instruments to save companies. There is good experience in Austria in the 1980s and 1990s when there was an instrument with the JCC. The Germans have set up a fund to go to equity to save small and medium-sized enterprises and also large companies. That's not how this government does anything, and that's the serious mistake. Let me make three more comments. First: The basis of this whole budget, i.e. the assumption of how the economy is developing in the next few years, is particularly exciting. In fact, the adoption is as follows: ==References== ==References====External links== He is gone by January and there are no more health restrictions and no more restrictions for the economy. I would be glad if it were so – alone, I lack faith. The second assumption is that there are no restrictions on travel, namely that there are no travel restrictions already this year at the beginning of the winter tourism season. I would be glad if it were – alone, I lack faith. In that respect, if I cannot believe the basis on which the budget is calculated, I do not believe your figures and the budget either. This budget won't last. The last comment is very important to me. You quoted Hayek here yesterday, and quite honestly, what happened to me – and that is what you see in the policy you are doing – is: We all pay losses together, the general public; the profits should be private again. The most beautiful example is: We said at the beginning that if a company wants to help because he cannot pay the wages because he cannot pay the taxes, then he should not issue dividends either, then there should be no manager bonuses. What did you do? – You said no, the dividends may be distributed, yes, the management bonuses also where we pump hundreds of millions in, like the AUA, which are entitled to be distributed. Now, the following thing is happening: The profits they made in the 19th year, where they are allowed to pay the bonuses, the dividends may be distributed, the taxes they paid at the time, they now get back. This is the best example of your policy, namely: Losses are to be borne by the general public and the profits get few rich, private or manager. We deeply reject that.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e3898	Mrs Belakovich has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e3924	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, today, in October 2020, we are discussing a budget, and we do not really know how the situation in Austria will be in October 2021. We are constantly facing new challenges, and we are constantly faced with new challenges. But this is also the case because of your complete inability: not only your personal but also the inability of this federal government. Mr Minister, you can only hope that you haven't forgotten zeros this time, but it won't matter because at least there are too few set for the situation to which we will now be heading. This financial need, which we will have, will become a huge one, because what you are doing in Austria will result in you continuing to be unsure of the economy, of the employers who will lose their prosperity. We will have workers in poverty. All of this is homemade, Minister of State! All this is homemade, ladies and gentlemen! They're always talking about the state shooting and shooting. – It will not happen at some point, Minister of Finance! That's the problem I see. You know, on the one hand, the economy is cracking, we'll only see what huge insolvency issues will break into our minds – we can push them out, but it won't be possible permanently – on the other hand, you continue your policy of panic. Today in the early days, the Federal Chancellor says that far more stringent measures are needed. - Yeah, what does he mean? You know, it's not that politics can create jobs, but politics is responsible for the mood in this country, and markets and investors are now responding to this mood, and every sense of uncertainty is that markets are reacting that investors no longer invest that we have fewer jobs and less tax revenue. [[Intervocations by Members Hörl and Smodics-Neumann.]] All of this, ladies and gentlemen, has the cause in this Federal Government. You know, Minister of the State, it's nice that you like Ovid, as I know – I've already noticed – but Ovid won't bring you on, it's just like that. Perhaps you should take the basics and the introduction to economics in order to see how the economy, like the social state, is related to all these systems, and then question them again: Is this policy of panic that we are going to live before the Austrians really necessary? Last Wednesday, we all came here from Mrs. Schwarz – she is not here now; today, I think, she is particularly afraid – has been cut off as a life hazard because we did not wear masks. [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: Here I am!]] But if the ÖVP celebrates, like last Sunday, something like that comes out! [[The speaker places a panel with a photo on which closely connected people can be seen, on the speaker's desk.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] There are then pictures of celebrations in ÖVP-locals; by the way, there are also celebrations in the national office, everywhere. This is then the ÖVP: no minimum distances and no masks either. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] [[Abg. Ottenschlager: This is not from Sunday!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Let us remember the Kleinwalsertal – let me tell you, Mr Haubner, you can look at it further – even there were no rules of distance, no masks. At the time, the Minister of the Interior has told us that this does not apply to the top institutions, nor does it apply to the Federal Chancellor. [[Abg. Gödl: Fakenews!]] - Yeah, right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] This does not apply to the Secretary of State, we have black on white. Now I don't know, is it generally not true for the ÖVP? Does what you're acctroying to the population apply to no one in the ÖVP? By the way, you of the Greens: Also of you there are these photos, which you can then soon admire on our FPÖ facebook page, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Kirchbaumer: Those who can read are clearly in advantage!]] This is the policy you are making: to insure the people who put people in fear and panic; but if you believe in yourself, then everything is different. If you think you are among yourself, ladies and gentlemen, then such photos come out, and there are many of them. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Obviously, the Federal Chancellor and your message control have failed here, because the photos are from the ORF homepage, and obviously you have intervened too little quickly that they will get away again. Be assured we've got it. That's why you stop! Stop insinuating the people! Let the citizens live outside as the ÖVP celebrates! [[Abg. Ottenschlager: That's incredible! It's a spinning!]] Stop with the Thirty Years' Style, with the Spitting, with the Denunizing! Then the economy comes up from alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4059	Mr Kugler spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4083	Dear FPÖ! [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ: “Dear FPÖ!”]] This picture dates back to October 2019. I'm in the middle of it, and that was the district party of the Young ÖVP in Floridsdorf. That, dear Mrs. Belakovich, is Fakenev's, and Fakenev's is a lot of what you're buying out of the Internet! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] It is not enough to surf the Internet and believe any sources. [[Abg. Schnedlitz: Is that an actual correction?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Kickl: That's a word report! ...!]] And in the high house we have a higher level. [[Abg. Kickl: Mr President! ...! He does what he wants!]] The Freedom Party has said that we need a renewal process: But you have to dig there very, very deep.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4173	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4194	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm trying to get back to the budget. We have heard a lot about the budget, including the climate budget. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] From my point of view, it's like this: It is not about whether the greens have been so successful in negotiating for the climate budget, nor is it our climate crisis. It is our common climate crisis and we also need to address it together. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] But what you can see is that it seems to us that green people in the government need us to go a little further – and how something has gone on, ladies and gentlemen! [[Call to the FPÖ: They always said that!]] Compared to the last budget presented by Turquoise-Blue, there will be more for climate protection and public transport next year by 1.2 billion euros. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It makes a difference who is in the Federal Government, and in climate protection, this difference is 1.2 billion euros. The climate protection budget brings not only significant increases next year, but also in the following years, as we see in the financial framework. That is to say, it is not only a short-term turbo that we are igniting here within the framework of the corona-conjuncture packages, but it goes far beyond that, until the years 2023 and 2024, as you can see from the financial framework. This is particularly important. When you look at the climate protection budget, you see that all essential climate protection instruments are strengthened. The UFI will be increased, the climate and energy funds will be increased, and even in the thermal rehabilitation process there will be some progress. From my point of view, the biggest mountain we have to cope with in climate protection is the heat turnaround. We must exchange 600 000 oil heaters over the next 15 years and 1 million gas heaters over the next 20 years. This is a mammoth task, and we need a lot of funding to achieve it. For this purpose, there is the support instrument for thermal renovation. Clubobfrau Rendi-Wagner von der SPÖ has previously criticized that we make too little money available for it. – Mr Leichtfried, You remember the last time you were a minister, together with Clubobfrau Wagner, how much money you have made available for the thermal renovation? It was 38 million euros. Next year, there are 300 million euros – that's more than seven times! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Why was it a problem that there were too few funds? – Although there was the support action, it usually started in March, when you remember, and then in June, July or by August at the latest, the funding was gone. It was a stop-and-go funding policy, which was very harmful because both companies, but also individuals, could not depend on getting a promotion if, for example, they exchange their old heating, if they want to clean up thermally or otherwise invest in climate protection. Now there are so many funding resources that there is a reliable funding structure and funding available all year round. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In addition to the Environmental Promotion Act – which I think is particularly important and we have already mentioned this in the committees – there is a just transition package. In the process of thermal renovation, for example, when people get rid of their old oil heating, we provide 5 000 euros of federal funding. For example, if a minimum pensionist in the single-family house can only start with this 5 000 euros because she cannot vote the rest, we have now created for the first time a separate pot of 50 million euros to help these people. We thus help those people who could never raise so much equity, for example, to exchange their old oil heating. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The measures to improve public transport have already been addressed by Mr Schwarz. With the new framework plan of 17 billion euros, not only will there be more public links, more and better railway stations, but the existing connections will also be improved. There will be more trains on existing connections, more bus connections. The 1-2-3 ticket will ensure that mobility becomes more durable, especially for commuters. All of this is not just expenditure that is so marked in the budget, but that is investment in the future. When we expand open doors, build cycle paths and exchange oil heating, we ensure more quality of life. We have less air pollution, there is more sustainable mobility and we create thousands of new jobs. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Smolle.]] While we are always saying in climate policy, yes, the energy transition creates jobs, and that is true, and we are now providing a funding budget that has never been in this country, but we also know that we have to put it to the ground somehow. If every year 60 000 oil heaters have to be exchanged, if in principle we have to build photovoltaic plants in the order of one terawatt hour each year, then we have to somehow get that on the ground, and we know we have a shortage of skilled workers. That is why I am particularly pleased that there is also EUR 400 million in the budget for retraining, training and further training. That's the only way we'll get it. That is why I am particularly pleased that we have been able to link these areas in the context of the Just Transition. Our goal is clear: We want to be climate neutral by 2040, over the next 20 years. We also know that a budget is only a part of the instruments. We know we need much more, but the budget presented today by the Federal Government is definitely a very, very important and big step in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4273	Next speaker: Mr Gerald Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4294	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Now I have to put my hands and my documents where my colleague Hammer and colleague Baumgartner put their masks. It's all great. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kirchbaumer.]] Let's go to the budget! Who is meeting the crisis you have created this crisis budget for? Who's hit by the crisis? She meets the workers and the employees who may have lost their job and are now unemployed, who are in short-time work and deserve less. It hits entrepreneurs who have a loss of sales, which often face the ruin of their existence, often after many years of entrepreneurship. It does not meet the politicians who have a fixed income, it does not meet the public servants who have a fixed income, and it does not meet the pensioners who have a secure income. They have budgeted a salary increase above the inflation rate for the public service. You need to see where you're distributing the money you're distributing. They are formulated in a way I do not think appropriate: “Never before has more money been made available to the labour market”. – Excuse me, what does “provided” mean?- Oh, my God! I'm expecting you to say, Sorry, we are in an unpleasant labour market situation, which we have not indebted ourselves, but which we have partly contributed to, and now there is the need for us to spend a lot of money, spending a lot of tax money!, and there do not speak of giving generously and generously. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] There's a wrong role understanding here. Then you have to see if those people get the money they need. That's what I'm saying, because you're distributing the casting can. An example is the child bonus of 360 euros. There are many who need this and who need it for their children, but there are also a lot with a secure, good income that this money would not have needed. Among those who have received these 360 euros for their children and they would not have needed them are also some in our circle here, including many public servants with a beautiful salary. My brother called me and asked: You, I got so much money transferred, what's that? He's got a safe job in the private sector and wouldn't have needed it either. They don't spend the money where it's really needed. It also benefits the farmers – for whom we have decided in recent weeks beautiful packages – who also do not work on a business basis. [[Abg. Wöginger: What... the farmers and the officials?]] – Yes, the farmers and the officials, the ÖVP already sees that their clients bring the sheep home. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Thank you for the revelation silk, August Wöinger! [[Abg. Wöginger: A few thousand...!]] Let's see where you spend the money: In the field of labour and social affairs, 3 of 4 euros flow into pensions, not to workers, to employees and to the self-employed who are economically affected by the crisis. You have to make that clear. [[Abg. Wöginger: But also... what they do!]] Then you have to see who they really are long-term penances. – These are the boys, the boys now suffer from educational opportunities, and the schools are blocked. So a wild Salzburg head of state must be prevented from immediately locking up schools and kindergartens throughout the country, so these are people. - I have to be careful not to get an order call. If I said what I think, I'd have three, four. – The boys are hit with regard to educational opportunities, the boys are hit in their income opportunities as they have a later career entry. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] Do you think we have so few job seekers because the others have all found a teaching place? Or do young people just go to school longer, attend a secondary school because there was no teaching room? Do the students at the Bachelor still have a Master because there was no job for the career entry? You do not know what unemployment means for young people! That is to say, they have proven lower life satisfaction in the long term. Unemployment means ever worse health and lower life expectancy. You always only expect the life expectancy of the coronapaths, you do not expect the reduced life expectancy of the unemployed. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] They also know that those who are unemployed at an early age are affected by their lives in the income curve. What you're doing is redistributing the boys to the old ones. That's not fair, it's not balanced and it's not generation-friendly.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4387	Next speaker: Mr Peter Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4416	Madam President. Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen in front of the television screens! So Mr. Loacker, our head of state in Salzburg, is an extremely responsible head of state and father-in-law, and he deals very carefully with the situation, which is a major challenge. [[Abg. Loacker: Completely through the wind!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Loacker.]] Mr Loacker, apologise for your expression. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] I think that the NEOS should be very slow to take away their superinstructive relationship, ladies and gentlemen, it is unbearable! - That's it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Wöger:...the pink glasses!]] Unfortunately, Mrs Belakovich is not here, but I must say quite honestly what Mrs Belakovich has done here today is extremely unfair. Mr Kickl has today stressed a few figures, I would also like to stress a figure for the FPÖ: minus 23 percent in confidence. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I am not surprised, because such actions do not contribute to the formation of trust, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Yeah, but now I want to come to the budget. We are dealing with the budget of 2021. I think we have a budget which is a major challenge because of this pandemic. This pandemic is not limited to Austria, we have heard many comparisons with other countries today, so we should also be aware that this pandemic is finding its victims all over the world. We currently have 550 million jobs less available in the labour market worldwide than at the end of 2019. This situation, ladies and gentlemen, does not go past Austria without a trace. That is why we have committed a budget with which we invest EUR 29 billion in the labour market in order to put in place exactly the right measures for employment and for safe jobs, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Kassinger.]] I am very glad that the Minister of Finance is called Gernot Blümel, because Gernot Blümel is a hard-working, committed and skilled minister who knows exactly what priorities we need to set. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The SPÖ calls here to relieve small income – we have done! – to secure investments – we have made! – to save businesses: That's where we're going. Every farm is very valuable to us, because it is the businesses that secure jobs, ladies and gentlemen, and not we in politics. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We have set ourselves these three major objectives: the saving of human life, of jobs and of our businesses, the relief of Austrians and investment in the location and competitiveness. For this we have tied up a package of 50 billion euros, ladies and gentlemen. These measures represent the whole range of our landscapes to companies and businesses. We have taken the taxes, we have given guarantees, there is a fixed-cost subsidy, there is the hardness fund, which has already been used by 200 000 people. There is the short work for which we have provided 8 billion euros and already paid almost 5 billion euros. Ladies and gentlemen! A total of EUR 24.8 billion has been put at the disposal of measures and the corresponding resources have been made available, and there will again be the necessary resources in 2021. We want to support our businesses, we want to create and secure jobs, and we want to bring people back into employment, which is one of the biggest concerns. That is why we invest in measures such as training and retraining, because it is very important that we not manage people in unemployment, but that we design it and get people back to a safe workplace in the businesses. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I know it's not an easy way. I am also very much with the entrepreneurs, we also take up their suggestions and try to adapt our actions permanently. Today, in the early days, the German Chancellor Angela Merkel also said that it is necessary to adapt the measures to the circumstances over and over again, as the circumstances are constantly changing. That is what we are doing, ladies and gentlemen. We took the right measures with caution and far-sightedness. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] This is a particular concern for me as an entrepreneur and economic representative. In Austria, 80 percent of enterprises are SMEs, small and medium-sized enterprises with up to 10 employees. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] It is particularly important that we support these companies, because they employ two million people. That is exactly what we need, namely growth in these areas and an increase in our competitiveness. That is why – Mr Schwarz has already mentioned it today – the investment premium is a real and good measure, because by investing we secure jobs and ensure our competitiveness. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] We already have 24 000 applications in this area, mainly from SMEs, from micro-enterprises and from small businesses, and already EUR 1.7 billion has been promised. This causes a total investment volume of 17 billion euros, ladies and gentlemen, and this is a real and important measure for the Austrian site. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] If we look at what this money is invested for, then we see that more than half is invested in digitisation and ecologisation. That is exactly what we have agreed in our government programme – that is to say, the right measure to be used precisely. I would also like to say: We have also put in place measures which many here have called for for for many years: We have implemented the degressive AF, we have implemented a loss report. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are doing a lot of things to accompany entrepreneurs on this difficult path, which is undoubtedly still ahead of us. One more thing: Mr Leichtfried has again brought Germany as an example of unemployment. You can already compare Germany and Austria, but then you also have to present the starting situation properly. Austria has 16 percent of employees in tourism, Germany almost 10 percent. Austria lives by tourism. 15 percent of GDP generates tourism, with only 10 percent in Germany. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] I believe that if the guests in Austria fail, it is relatively logical that unemployment also increases accordingly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Mr Leichtfried, I have said in your speech: They are as far away from the economy as I am from the Punic wars, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Mr. Haubner! When were they?]] Finally, I would like to say one more thing: I would also like to use the opportunity to thank myself on behalf of Salzburg, namely for the support of the Festival Houses, because it is very important that we continue to have the world's best festivals in our country and can therefore contribute a lot of positive things for Austria and for Salzburg. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I would like us to go through this crisis together out of responsibility for jobs and locations, because together it is very important. As a company, we know what means together because we do this daily in our businesses with our employees. Together it is called each other and not against each other, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4592	Next speaker: Mr Josef Muchitsch. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4616	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! All economic and labour market experts forecast the same: Austria will not be able to pick up the economic downturn in 2020, nor will 2021. It will take longer for us to reach the economic figures of 2019. The result is known to all of us: a continuing record unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and Greens, if you had not been exposed to the epidemic law, there would not have been these major problems now. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Federal Government has announced a great deal of investment, premiums, bonus payments and support, 29 billion euros – Mr Haubner mentioned it again – for employment and the labour market, but the question is: Are these measures sufficient, and do these measures, which you have announced almost daily in large-scale press conferences, really reach where they are to arrive: climate change, employment, the fight against record unemployment or also the security of Austria's economic location? Let us take a concrete look at this from just three examples! On investments in climate protection: ÖGB, AK, Global 2000, all have said we need at least 1 billion euros per year. They do not even have 250 million euros per year in the budget until 2024. I'll tell you: That's clearly too little. This is not a climate policy, so we do not make climate protection. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What you're doing is not climate policy, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, that's a patch policy. There and there is a patch on it, so that you have something to your heart. We do not solve these problems. Or also the parish package – MP Krainer has referred to it; we will hold a short debate today; our colleague Andreas Kollrosshat put a parliamentary question: Which municipalities have picked up something from this municipal package – 1 billion euros for 2 095 municipalities and cities in Austria? Mr Finanzminister, you have replied that you cannot answer this for data protection reasons. But they answered: 464 municipalities have collected money, 464 out of 2 095 municipalities. It has now happened exactly what we have always said as SPÖ: This money, these municipal billions can only pick up communities that are financially strong. The financial weak communities cannot collect this money. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Finanzminister, thank you for your openness yesterday in your budget speech, in which you have informed us that 781 projects have now been approved with an investment funding of EUR 91 million. Only 91 million euros have been collected from 1 billion euros. Please Change You have this community package so that all the municipalities in Austria can get their money! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The third example: Her big announced corona work foundation. What now appears in the budget is the intention to invest 700 million euros in addition to employment, education and training – 700 million euros. The budget represents only EUR 522 million for two years. Where are the remaining 178 million euros? – You seem to be taking these out of the labour market budget. These are contributions from contributors to other measures in the AMS funding budget, and there too the money will go. That's not a job foundation. A real work foundation, Mr. Finanzminister, is a work foundation, with which people who are specifically concerned are individually promoted, trained, trained, so that they can immediately get into a job they already know about. This is a work foundation, but what you're doing is unfortunately not a work foundation. You said yesterday: “I believe in the diligence of Austrian workers and the creativity and performance of local companies.” Now a negotiation is taking place in Hirschwang in the company Mayr-Melnhof. 150 workers are fighting for a fair social plan. For these 150 workers, management has offered a social plan with a total volume of 4.5 million euros. For comparison: Last year, a manager in this company in Hirschwang received 8.6 million euros – 8.6 million euros for a manager compared to 4.5 million euros for 150 workers. There's something going on in our country, Minister of Finance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If the employees in this country are really important to you if the companies in Austria are so important to you, you will also ensure that our local companies receive contracts with their employees! Make sure that the investment premium, which is running well, is bound by contracts to Austrian companies, just as we have been doing with the winter construction offensive in Styria for 20 years! Public funds only for those investments that ensure value added and thus employment and companies in Austria at the site! That would be important economic policy. Or make sure that the Federal Procurement Act is actually used in such a way that Austrian companies are now receiving these orders in the crisis! We did everything in this high house. We have introduced the best bidder principle, we have also made the threshold regulation which expires at the end of the year. Please ensure that the threshold regulation – direct public procurement from 1.1.2021 – continues to exist and that these values are also increased! Only if we make these awards, these invitations to tender in such a way that the award criteria include regionality and climate protection measures does our tax money remain in the crisis in our country. To conclude, because Mr Haubner meant that we are a little “far away” from the economy – I really ask you this because a Member of Parliament, I believe, has said to Mrs Baumgartner: Don't talk bad about our budget! –: Find it right that noise protection walls for our Will motorways now be ordered in Hungary and, at the same time, Austrian companies which have applied for short-time work, where terminations are in the room, do not receive these orders? You think that's right? If you don't think it's right, do something about it! I think it is with this example that we may be closer to the economy than you are and more than you are. [[towards ÖVP]] [[towards Greens]] Mr Finanzminister, if the domestic economy is really important to you with all its employees and companies, please show this not only in a budget speech, but with concrete measures! What measures this can be, I have now done to you in the last 5 minutes. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4734	The next speaker is Mr Erwin Angerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4759	Madam President. Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! But above all: Estimated taxpayers! It's you who's talking about the money we're talking about today. It makes a little sense as if we were talking about the money of this government – especially the ÖVP – which is distributed, but it is you who make this money available, and it is you who in the final effect have to pay back these debts that are distributed today – that is the point. I can give you Your budget is happy to sum up, Mr ÖVP and Mr Finanzminister: It is a zero number and a confirmation of the way in which ÖVP sees the Republic as a self-service store, this money of taxpayers shifts into its structures, into its associations and thus makes its policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You, Minister, said yesterday: This budget is put into figures policy. – I tell you what this budget is: This budget is a summary of your press conferences in figures – nothing else. You have summarized the press conferences of the last months in which you have made one bear after another to the Austrian population, in this budget – that is this budget. They have denied the opportunity to launch any reforms: They have denied the opportunity to use the crisis to launch federalism reforms, structural reforms and further implementation of the tax reform. What you have preferred this year was a first small step in a tax reform prepared by our State Secretary Hubert Fuchs, and you have failed to implement the tax reform and take further action in this crisis. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let us look at – this has already been mentioned today – how you deal with federalism and our state-political responsibility, which you always highlight, how you treat the communities and countries in your budget and in your considerations! You know that the income loss of the municipalities is in a range of 2 billion euros. The municipal investment package was a request of the first hour of us – that was all right, that was a package for the economy so that money flows into the economy. This is not the case now, as Mr Muchich has already said, because you have misplaced the criteria. We have also criticized that. The municipalities are still 2 billion euros away today. How should they maintain the lack of local infrastructure? What are we gonna do next? Are we closing the schools? Are we closing the kindergartens? – You have already done it today: You excluded a second lockdown yesterday, now you close in Kuching everything. You lock the schools, you lock the kindergartens, the businesses are closed. Yesterday, you said you'd exclude a second lockdown. Mr. Minister, you will have to throw this budget back into the dungy faster than you love. Let us look again at the constructions you use to implement your party policy! Let us take the Chamber of Commerce: Since the beginning of the crisis, the Chamber of Commerce has refused to help its entrepreneurs – it is the business representatives’ representatives – with the money paid by the entrepreneurs there. [[Abg. Kirchbaumer: Not at all!]] In the beginning, the big statement was: The Chamber of Commerce will do all that, it has the capacity, it can implement it, one will rely on the reserves, the basic set-aside will not be lifted. - What happens now? – The basic budget is prescribed, and we are making cross-financing via the budget. They take shamelessly into the budget and finance the Chamber of Commerce across the budget. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Incredible!]] I looked at the economic budget: There are 12 million euros inside and another 1.2 million euros for a digitalisation agency, which is put into the Chamber of Commerce. We don't even talk about the Cofag: 18 billion euros from the Austrian State budget are transferred to a society called Cofag, which is completely deprived of parliamentary control. There has never been that in this Republic – you have to say that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Minister, you write on the second page of the budget speech: ‘The word spoken applies.’ Now I would have said the broken word. “The word that has been spoken” – with you, Mr. Minister, the ÖVP? Of whom does the spoken word apply? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] You promised us two years ago: There will be no increase in the EU budget, we will remain with our contribution of 1 percent of GDP. Today, we are in a situation where we will pay 400 million euros more to Brussels each year. What matters Your word, Mr. Minister? What matters Your word at the end of the day? What do you think? Your budget reminds me a little of a regular book. You have several quotations inside – one of which our clubman has already mentioned –: Debt liars are climate liars, “the spoken word” and so on. I would also like to write to you something in your main book, which is very well suited to you, Minister: Theodor Heuss, whom I quote herewith, says: Whoever says the truth can be a bad conscience. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4838	The next speaker is Mrs Agnes Sirkka Prammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4860	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate viewers! In the last budget there was a significant increase in the area of justice. It was long necessary and overdue, but nevertheless not self-evident. Of course, this increase was warmly welcomed, but many also said: That's it now, This has now been achieved, and nothing will happen. – The opposite is the case: There is another 65.8 million euros for the area of justice – 65.8 million euros! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is an amount that can in any case continue the path taken and enable the judicial system to be rehabilitated in a sustainable way. In addition, EUR 2.6 million is available for the financing of adult protection associations. This allows people to live a largely independent life and still get support and representation where they really need it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In addition, 4.2 million euros flow into victim protection. Victim protection is a very essential issue, and the new law on hatred on the net will also strengthen the protection of victims. 4.2 million euros are available for this. At the same time, the data protection authority receives more planning posts by 15 percent. It has an important role – including in implementing measures against hatred on the network – and it will be able to fulfil this task with the increase in the level of staff. 17 million euros are spent in the implementation of measures – 17 million euros, with 100 places being created in the Forensian Centre of Asten and around 60 additional caregivers. 3 million euros are available for the psychiatric evaluation of mentally ill offenders. Around 2.3 million euros flow into the increase in parole aid. These funds can also be used to expand the use of the electronic footbands and to strengthen those measures necessary to re-integrate offenders into society after the arrest has been committed. 10 million euros flow into communication and information technology. This money can not only ensure that justice can work properly, but also that the electronic act can be implemented across the board. 4.5 million euros are available in addition to the use of protective measures to prevent the further spread of Covid-19. Of course we're not at the end: There are measures that continue to finance them. For example, it is still necessary to raise the fees for the court interpreters. That's what we're aware of. We know that's still up to it. However, this budget has shown that the Minister of Justice is not about effectiveness and short-term highlights. A path has been taken to the sustainable reorganisation of the judicial area, and it will continue.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4920	Next speaker is Mrs Martina Künsberg Sarre. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4941	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear viewers! 600 million euros more for education, almost 10 billion – that sounds like a lot. But when you look closely at it, you see that you are actually just continuing to write the existing, completely impotent and totally visionless. There's nothing new about it at all. We have a huge crisis, for which you can't do anything, but what you can do something for is how you react to this crisis. What we now urgently need – and the Corona crisis makes it even clearer: we need it even faster – is, for example, a quality expansion in the kindergartens. In international comparison, we have the largest groups and the worst Maintenance relationship. This is especially true of us now in the Corona era. And what are you doing, especially the ÖVP, in the Styria this week? – In this case, together with the SPÖ, they take a step back to the past rather than any visionary step into the future. We need not only EUR 15 million for 100 schools – this is the prestigious project of the Greens in the government programme! It has become a mickey project of 15 million, and the Ministry of Education even writes in a request answer that it is a research project. There are enough best-practice examples internationally and we do not need any more research projects, but we need a comprehensive support at all schools. One thing has often been strained, but you can't say it often enough: Through home schooling, the educational shears have gone even further apart. We need more resources for all schools, especially for the focal schools – and not only 15 million euros. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We need funds for day-to-day schools to enable freedom of choice. We need funds for the extension of the summer schools, which is not at all included. We also need adequate resources for German funding – and what we need, above all, and not just next year, is a digital offensive that starts now or that should have started long ago. They boast of the distribution of terminals for the 5th or 6th. School level next school year. Those who are older obviously don't need any devices, but that's a different story at all. Only the distribution of terminals is far from a digital offensive, that is too little! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Of the points I have mentioned, nothing is contained in the draft budget at all. We have the biggest crisis for years, and you're doing school as always, like the past years and many decades before. We will need more than just rules for hand washing and ventilation in schools. We need courageous investments in the future, we need to invest in the young people, because they have to repay all the debts you are taking up. For all these young people and children, you have no answers at all – and I also speak to you, Minister – to all the burning questions in education, there is nothing at all! [[towards Federal Minister Blümel, who looks at his smartphone]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Krisper.]] This non-investment, this abandonment of countless children and young people is actually the most expensive part of this budget, and that is very, very sad!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5017	Next speaker: Mrs Maria Theresia Niss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5038	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! Dear Seers! Mr Minister, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate you once again, very warmly, on this excellent outcome in the election you made on Sunday. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this context, I can say to the FPÖ: With these fakeevs, as with this picture you, Mrs. Belakovich, have just shown, you will not win any elections in the future! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I should also like to congratulate you on the budget you have presented. I believe that this is a very solid and courageous budget, which on the one hand responds to the challenges that the Corona crisis has certainly created, which gives planning security, but on the other hand also sets the course for a successful post-crisis period. Dear NEOS, because you're always talking about a brave budget: If even Mayor Ludwig says that NEOS have moved ideologically in the right direction, then I am almost afraid of a budget you are presenting! [[Cheerfulness of MEPs Meinl-Reisinger and Krisper]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] This budget, ladies and gentlemen, is a budget of responsibility in the crisis, for jobs and for the site, but it is also a budget of responsibility for the next generations and for the post-crisis location. These two priorities can also be found again. We find in the budget those expenditures that support and relieve our entrepreneurs, but also all citizens, children, families, those in need of care. I only recall the tax reform that we decided here in July, which covers EUR 1.6 billion. I should like to mention four further measures of discharge or support: One of them is short work. At peak times more than a million people were in short work – now there are still 270 000. All of these are people we have been able to keep in employment in the companies and who would otherwise have become unemployed. It is precisely these people that we want to continue training now, because, ladies and gentlemen, we still have an acute shortage of skilled workers. I believe that we can take advantage of the present time to train these people so that we can really get through after the crisis. For the short work we took in and take in 8 billion euros – this is a unique model in Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A further measure is the work foundation: In 2021, we take over 700 million euros to further qualify the unemployed, because every unemployed person is one too much, behind each one is a single gift. I think it's really our concern, we want these people sustainable – and I say here: sustainable, keyword: Action 20 000 – in employment and therefore also a great thanks to the Federal Government! [[Abg. Greiner: “Steck”! “Stecking” is already...!]] The next measure is the fixed cost grant. This measure supports those companies which are particularly affected by a loss of sales by the lockdown. It is the businesses in tourism, in commerce, but also in industry. At this point I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for his tenacity and commitment. Otherwise, we would have a ceiling of 800 000 euros. Many have criticised the Minister for Finance that we are opposed to the EU. – No, ladies and gentlemen, we are not opposed to the EU, but we are behind our companies, we want to help them as well as possible and therefore we have reached a ceiling of 3 million euros. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Last, but not least, I would like to mention the investment premium. Nearly 1.7 billion euros have been requested, so that we can trigger investments of 17 billion euros, we have already heard: 80 percent of them go to micro- and micro-enterprises and over 50 percent go to eco-logisation and digitization, so in our future. I therefore do not know why Mr Rendi-Wagner or Mr Muchich say that we do not provide incentives for investment, for an economic upturn in order to revive purchasing power: All of these are exactly the measures to be taken. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But this is also a budget that will invest in the future, which will lay the foundation for us to grow even after the crisis, that we can expand our location, secure our jobs and our prosperity, and that we – this is the essential thing – will then also come back to balanced state budget, because we need growth to do so. As a research spokesperson, I would like to list some of the measures to be mentioned in this area, because these are really groundbreaking. First to the universities: plus 13 percent, this is a consistent continuation of university funding, which we decided in 2017. On the one hand, we can continue to improve the care conditions and thus also the output – so to speak, the number of graduates – and on the other hand, we can strengthen and continue the focus on technical and scientific subjects, for I have already mentioned: We have a shortage of skilled workers, and that is how we can counter them. In this context, I should also like to mention the new TU, which is to be set up in Upper Austria. I think that's essential. We rely on excellence, on internationalization. This is really an hour of technology and research in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is very gratifying that the universities also get more, for the first time in 25 years, the study funding rates are valorized. This means planning security on the one hand, but on the other hand we can also take the necessary steps towards digitization and internationalisation. For years it has been called for, it has been implemented by this government. A warm thank you! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Basic research is increased by 16 percent and the excellence initiative so often called for is implemented. We can get top research, get the best heads to Austria. We can continue the expansion of the IST Austria, the Institute of Science and Technology Austria in Maria Gugging, the Austrian Academy of Sciences – all excellent institutes. This is a truly encouraging sign. Applied research also receives more money, especially in the field of climate and energy research. Each 100 million euros will be invested in 2021 and 2022 to make our industries, our production of CO2 poorer and resource more efficient. The important Ipse projects in the field of digitisation and ecologisation can also be further financed. Contrary to NEOS' opinion, I do not feel that this budget is impotent, on the contrary, I think it is actually encouraging and, above all, necessary. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Father Schasching, adviser to many popes, politicians, but also business managers, once said: Economics fair, human-righteous and socially-friendly! I believe that this budget will meet this appeal. – For that, warm congratulation and a warm thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5151	Next speaker: Mrs Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5175	Madam President. Federal Minister! In my opinion, a quote from Johanna Dohnals must follow the quote of a patriot: “To be silent for tactical reasons has still proved to be a mistake.” I Turn it off a little bit and quote the workers' chamber president Renate Anderl, who said these days: In Corona times, women may find themselves flawed. We must do exactly the opposite! I would like to thank once again all the women in this country who have been keeping society and the country running for months, because no one has done it today, including you in your speech yesterday. A great thank you to all those who very often pay badly, double and triple, keep our country running. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP, Greens and NEOS.]] Many experts have been talking about women for months, if not years. They are educators, they are scientists in different directions, they are of course labour law experts, they are violence experts. If one conducts surveys in this country, however, workers also say what they need and what should happen in the future. And to quote a man, I'd like to use the Wifo chief who said yesterday: Well, economic policy in the country is not just about Corona. There are no real answers to other pressing questions in this budget, there are no answers to a real care reform, no answers to a real ecologisation that we need. Perhaps the energy has failed, says Christoph Badelt, perhaps there was no political unity. Similarly, a planned tax reform is not included in the budget, and the financial compensation is also open. So, and where are the women's priorities that would actually have to go through this budget like a red thread? Where are these women's priorities, Mr. Federal Minister? You did not even mention the women yesterday in your 25-page budget speech – with many empty pages by the way. I tell you, women from different scientific directions, mergers of women's associations have made proposals. We need, for example, a half-half of a business package. It cannot be that we invest only unilaterally in short work, in companies – that is important and right, not a question – but also in care, in the health system and in education. My colleague Hammerschmid will have a lot to say after that. We must finally look at this half-half-economic package through the sex glasses, because unemployment, one of the main problems of this corona crisis, is seeing more women. More and more women are becoming unemployed and more and more women are sleeping in poverty. These are measures you have not implemented, but we have proposed: They need a higher unemployment benefit, they need better support. Because, for example, the maintenance does not flow when men have become unemployed, it needs a maintenance advance law. I do not hear and read this anywhere about the millions who, for example, are also made available to justice. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Not only the Austrian women's ring, ladies and gentlemen, has made many, many proposals, no, in which case also the social partners. I want to present this paper as an example – and I want to discuss it with you – that it is possible that the Chamber of Commerce, together with the Chamber of Agriculture and the Chamber of Agriculture, together with the Chamber of Workers and ÖGB, will create a manifesto that is urgently necessary for the compatibility of work and family, for young parents, especially for women who are now at home and unable to get out of this corona crisis. [[Keeping a document in height]] It is urgently necessary – and this is what everyone, across all borders – to have a legal right to a childcare centre, that we have schools all day long. have that we also have a better education of educators that we confront the children early on with mathematics and other natural sciences that there is a training offensive in general. And there must finally be a uniform framework across the country when a kindergarten locks up, when it locks up how many days it closed in the summer, for if that is not the case, women can never take up a full-time job. Please discuss with us this agreement of the social partners so that something goes on here. There is also nothing in the budget, no kindergarten billions, no 2 billion euros for the care reform that is urgently needed, because we still believe that care must be regulated by the state and that people in this country must not cost anything. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] There are still many, many examples available from broken women available to you, Mr Minister. They only need to take implementation steps. Finally a Friedrich-August-Hayek-Gruselgeschichte. I cannot understand, Minister of Finance, that you said yesterday in the course of your speech: Keynes, well, in the short term, but of course Hayek is right in the long run. – But you already know that this was an anti-democratic regime that supported the Augusto-Pinochet regime, under which people were towed and tortured and workers’ rights were trampled with feet, which would actually have to be denied the Nobel Economic Prize? You praise him? - Whoever does that must be ashamed!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5265	Mr Reinhard Eugen Bösch is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5287	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Let me highlight an area of security policy which you mentioned yesterday in your speech, namely the budget for Austrian defence. There will indeed be an increase in the national defence budget in 2021. However, it is only a short period of economic activity in relation to the needs existing in this ministry, because under the Federal Financial Framework Act already the following year, namely 2022, everything falls back to around 2.5, 2.4 billion euros. That is why this budget, which we have here for the coming year, is a label gap with regard to the need to ensure the further development of the Austrian federal army, as it has been started among Ministers Doskozil and Kunasek, also, Federal Minister. We believe that this is only possible if we can increase the Austrian federal army's regular budget to at least EUR 3 billion in 2021. With this sum – at least 3 billion euros for 2021 – we are on the state of the government negotiations we conducted with your party in 2017. We are on the stand that emerges from the appeal of the Chief General of Staff last spring, who also mentioned this sum and presented it as a necessary investment in security policy. We will have to stick to this demand, because we are worth the national defence and also the security policy of the Republic. They also mention in the accompanying booklet that there are priorities in the area of health services, terrorist protection, ABC defence, disaster protection, cybersecurity, But also with the militia will give. These are all sounding keywords, and I welcome every million more who flow into the Austrian federal army and its structures. It is, however, to be doubted that these priorities can be met with life, and the question arises whether the millions who are being announced there – they are between 20 and 25 million euros each – will actually come into circulation. As you know, Mr Minister, there is a strained relationship between your ministry and that of national defence. It is not certain that all the euro millions that are promised will then be really available. We will continue to clarify in the Committee what has been included in this total of EUR 2.6 billion. I assume that the helicopter package, which has been negotiated with your party under Mario Kunasek and which includes 300 million euros, at least part of it, in this budget, also includes vehicle mobility packages from former ministers, so that we can total the sum of 2.6 billion euros. We have a new challenge with the pandemic, and you are one of the priorities of the health forces to be refreshed and strengthened in their structure. It remains to be noted, however, that we do not have the right new sanitary concepts on the table so far, and it is doubtful that we can shape this area at the necessary speed in such a way that it really helps the Republic and can be really used in times of pandemic. We still believe that we must divide the national defence budget into two areas. We need a rule budget that exceeds that EUR 3 billion, and we need special funding that is set aside for particularly large purchases from the Ministry of Finance. If we take these two areas together, it is clear that only with the necessary budget resources can a further development of the Austrian federal army be ensured. This budget does not dissuade the suspicion that the ÖVP will not operate the further development of the Austrian federal army, but will adapt the Austrian federal army to the deficit budgets. So we do not see any really constructive further development of the Austrian federal army and will of course not be able to agree to this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5335	Next speaker: Mrs Bedrana Ribo. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5356	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! Dear sisters, dear Seeher at home! As a care spokesman, I would like to address the topic of care and the care budget, which can be found in the UG 21. Again and again the care is called the challenge of our time. That's her too: a challenge that won't be easier over time, but rather more complex. Why is that so? – This can be explained well by a few examples. Care has been neglected over years, if not over decades of politics, by the previous governments. Mutless activity, moving back and forth has dramatically aggravated the already very challenging situation in the care. The failure of the past is now coming to the surface, and the Corona crisis has, of course, made this even worse. The more important it is that this government, with Minister Anschober, faces these key challenges. We're getting older, that's gratifying. Life expectancy is increasing, and of course it also increases the proportion of the elderly in the total population. This very demographic development is a reason why the care system is under pressure. In no other public sector will the costs increase in the coming years as much as in the care sector. Another challenge is the lack of personnel that has been mentioned here. There's already a lack of care staff complaining. According to a study conducted by the Social Ministry from November 2019, we will need 75 000 people in care by 2030 – that is in ten years. When you know the reality in the care, you know that a lot of people work part-time there. This means that in ten years we will need more 100 000 people in this sector – the key to a lack of care force. There is, of course, also the challenge of keeping the people who are now working in care there. It is not natural for people to remain in this job forever; Tag: the very difficult working conditions. The most important pillar in the care are the caring families. These people urgently need relief. In Austria, there are about 1 million caregivers, 1 million people who have reached the limit of their forces, for which there is no 40-hour week, for which there are seven times a week 24 hours. These examples show so clearly that we urgently need a care reform. ==References====External links== This is the starting point of October, and it is precisely these challenges that will be addressed, that will be discussed with those concerned, with science, with people from the care sector and, of course, with the policy that needs to and will act. It needs a strong common political will. This federal government has it, this will is also visible in the budget. There is a total of 60 million euros in additional care resources, 40 million of them for care, dementia and disability, plus 20 million for innovative projects and quality assurance in care. On innovative projects I immediately notice Communitynursing, Communitynurse. We've got this in our government program. That's not what we need to reinvent, it's there in the Scandinavian countries, that works well there, and that's what I wish for Austria. A care-free day is also planned to relieve caring relatives, or a staff offensive – already mentioned several times today. I would nevertheless like to mention the work foundation – this success – which is taught at EUR 700 million. It is a good and important step that the government has launched this work foundation. Just now, for example, as many people in the tourism sector become unemployed due to Covid or stay out of work, one can re-train them towards care, support them financially and motivate them for this profession. I also look in the direction of the SPÖ in the absence of nurses, because I find it is not very serious to stand here and say again and again: In the care, this was not done and that was not done. I'd love to remind you of this: You had this in your hand for a very long time, not only the care, but also many other agendas. So please, here's more seriousity! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I would like to mention a focus – the time is running away – on people with dementia. In Austria, 130 000 people live in Dementia. These people or their caring relatives need support. The process of determining care needs is not sufficient. The 25 hours per month fee is not enough, that is too little. I am very pleased that the common goal of this federal government is to improve the living conditions of people with dementia and their families and to continue to ensure quality care in this area. I am confident that these successes will work together. Both the challenges and expectations in the field of care are great – I believe the Federal Government and we are aware of this – but our common will to achieve really visible improvements for people in care, for various groups in care – I can assure you – is also very great. I would really like to see this joint action across all political groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5435	The next speaker is Mr Michael Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5459	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I looked at the budget from the perspective of sustainability. This will probably not be very surprising to my colleagues. Sustainability – unlike many believe – is not such a stretching concept when you look at it from an ecological point of view. It is about that the existing generation does not consume and needs more resources than those who are regrowing, so that the next generation has the same resources in the same quality and quantity. This is the whole idea of sustainability. By the way, this definition has been in place since the 17th century. Thus, it is not entirely new in the century, and it certainly did not invent the greens. But what the Greens are trying to tell us is that this budget is now an incredibly sustainable budget. In line with the definition that has been in place for a very long time, it is not a very sustainable budget. There, of course, you can look at the whole thing more closely and say: In the current situation, the ÖVP and the Greens have won. What do I mean? – On the sides of the greens, they can do what they like to do: They spend more tax money, they spend more money in all the categories where they can speak. By the way, I think that this is sometimes useful, but not always. The ÖVP has also achieved its success because it can retain all that it has previously stressed and blocked, it can continue to finance pollution. That's exactly where the big gap is: When it comes to sustainability, it is not only about doing right things, that is, investing in a better mobility in certain climate change measures, an energy transition, but also about not doing wrong things anymore. This budget is proof that a few things are being done more correctly and that everything that is wrong remains wrong. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] If you look at that in numbers, it's very easy to see because it's not well hidden. No one has bothered to hide this – honestly – very well. What is different about this budget than the last? – One gives in environmental policy – in other words, in detail: Climate protection, nature protection – 220 million euros more from than in the last Year. These measures support the NEOS in a majority way. One spends more 400 million euros on mobility, especially, of course, for the expansion of public transport than last year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light snow]] In the same breath, however, one continues to spend 4.7 billion euros on the subsidy of environmentally harmful measures. That is, 600 million euros of Plus have been given to the Greens, 4.7 billion euros for environmental pollution has been granted to the ÖVP. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] This is anything but the next generation. That's an eye wiper. This is actually cheaper numerical populism. That's not a turnaround, it's not a transformation, it's not a future, it's just a little bigger patch on the wound that the ÖVP has been adding to this country since decades. What I would like to say: What would be the correct answers? – Incidentally, it is not just us NEOS who say this: Many economists, many scientists in the field of climate research, demonstrate what it actually needed in our country. First of all, there is a measure mentioned in each interview, in each study, which is by the way also contained in the government programme, namely an ecologicalisation of the entire tax structure, an ecologicalisation of the entire tax structure and the fees. This is not just about the CO2 tax, it is about real ecologisation. The one we see in the 2021 budget is marginal, it's totally small. Quite honestly, that would have brought a FPÖ together if it had been negotiating a little later in the evening. That's not crazy green. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] In this respect, I am most disappointed. What our country would have needed would be jobs, jobs, jobs. When we talk about environmental and climate policy, there is an incredible opportunity if we actually make a change towards new jobs. It is not just a Sunday talk, but there are studies from TU Vienna downward. It would create almost 180 000 local and regional jobs in Austria – 180 000 unemployed less – if you really invest. These 180 000 unemployed people bring They are currently not in employment with the planned activities. With the 600 million more euros I calculate, the billion that the Green Government Group will charge, you will not face the 4.7 billion euros of environmental pollution that you want to decide on in this budget. From our point of view, this is clearly not an advance. We will not be able to support this budget from the point of view of sustainability, and it is not a budget in which we see as much green as we are sold every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5541	The next speaker is Mr Georg Strasser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5563	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated Minister of State! We know these rhetorical and communicative games. If one goes out the arguments, then the discussion becomes very personal. Personal characteristics, including physical characteristics of politicians, are often used, and I say quite openly, we are not doing anything good. But there is the time when politics asks the question of confidence when elections are held. In reality, this is the highest form of democracy and also the highest form of questioning the confidence that exists in the population. I would like to congratulate you, Mr Federal Minister, on the weekend, on your success in the Vienna election. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] 11 300 preferred votes are really a great success, and a plus of 11.2 percent is historical. I would like to thank you for your commitment to the People's Party, to the city of Vienna and to the country of Austria. [[further calls to the SPÖ]] We're on a good way. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Peter Wurm von der FPÖ spoke of humility yesterday. I say quite openly: Yes, we agree on a certain humility. Humility would be good for the FPÖ. After Ibiza, after the Vienna election, after Mrs. Belakovich came to the speaker's house with fake pictures and blackened us as a popular party, and after 7.11 percent at the Vienna election: We agree a certain humility, which should also be shown by the FPÖ in this context. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now to the budget: We have had something similar like that before, in 2009, when the 2007/08 financial crisis was launched in our economy. GDP recorded a decrease of 3.8 percent at the time. I was mayor at the time, and many of us were wondering: Will we vote on this crisis? - And yes, we did it. At this time, 2008 to 2009, the debt ratio increased from 68.7 percent to 79.9 percent. And we managed to reduce our debt ratio from 84.9% to 70.5% from 2015 to 2019, and in 2019 we even achieved a Maastricht surplus of 0.9 percent. This review of the last ten years should, yes, satisfy us with humility and also with some gratitude, but also with confidence. Why did we do this? – We have managed because there are people in this country who know how it is – in the economy, in agriculture, in the workers, in the public service, in the education sector, in the health system, in the administration – and also because politicians have made the right decisions. This makes me confident that we will also deal with this crisis, which will tear a huge hole in the budget and the economics of 2020, because we in Austria know how it is going. Now to the so-called crisis budget. In this, of course, it is clear that in 2020 it was necessary to invest this EUR 50 billion. In fact, it is a future investment in companies, in businesses, in the labour market, in social projects and also in the health system. It is clear that this will result in a budget deficit of almost EUR 30 billion. It is clear to us, however, that we will reduce this deficit to a level of 4.9 billion euros by 2025. This is an investment in the future so that we can ultimately maintain our prosperity, our social state, our health system and, ultimately, move on to climate protection and ecologicalisation. And at this point, colleague Bernhard: The Renewable Extension Act will come, and we will also create many Green jobs with the Renewable Extension Act. In order for us to be able to afford the projects that we are getting on the way, this budget is simply necessary for the rescue of 50 million euros. A few words on agriculture: I am glad that the agricultural budget, which will manage Minister Köstinger, will be increased by around EUR 600 million, as in many other areas, where this is urgently needed. It will invest in the forestry sector: a plus of 158 million euros; it will invest in rural development: a plus of 991 million euros; it will invest in the urban water industry – this will delight the mayors –: a plus of 15.7 million euros; and it will invest in broadband development: with a budget of 260 million euros. These are many signals for rural areas, but these are also important signals for us farmers so that we can do our job with a corresponding income in the future. I come to the conclusion: There will be exciting weeks, exciting discussions in the committees and also in the plenary, and I can encourage the appreciated audience to watch. The opposition will continue to lick the wounds – the government and the turquoise-green coalition will continue to care for the wounds that this crisis has caused in our systems. I am convinced that with a lot of turquoise-green hope and clarity these weeks are well mastered. I'm looking forward to the discussions. – Thank you very much and very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5653	Next speaker: Mrs Sonja Hammerschmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5674	Madam President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Watchers in front of TV screens! Such a budget can have something charming, indeed something bright and also cleansing, because it clearly shows what things are. The facade will be washed away, there will be more or less demaskation, because we see clearly what is behind these many announcements, press conferences, promises of the members of the government. Well: What's behind that? What's the real core? We welcome two measures, I would like to start with the positive. It is set in this budget of 235 million euros that will finally bring tablets and laptops to the schools of our children. This is something positive – after three years of refusal of reality by the Minister of Education on the topic of digitalization. [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Kirchbaumer: No, no, no! ...!]] However, the hook on this is as follows: This is a unique investment in equipment with computers, and according to your own performance in the budget report, the computers only land in the fifth and sixth levels. That's where I have to ask you: What about the other kids? What about those children who come to the fifth level the following year? Don't they get a computer? What is it then? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] What about WLAN expansion, what about maintenance and service work? Is that what the teachers are doing? That can't be true! What about learning programs, learning apps, game-based learning? What about training opportunities for educators? There is no longer much to talk about, and there is nothing more to be found in the budget. The second positive story is the mini-mini-budget on the issue of opportunity index, namely for the 100-school project. However, it is also a one-off budget measure, and nothing of it can be seen again in the following years. That really won't solve the problem. Where to look for the challenges in our schools? – The results of the OECD study on education in figures once again show that education inheritance in Austria is unfortunately very high, and Corona has greatly reinforced this educational inheritance. We see only from the IHS studies on the lockdown that at least 140 000 children could not be reached by the school or only insufficiently. 140,000 children have no terminals, no computers and could not learn. 76 percent of teachers are concerned about the weak competences to ensure the level of competence of disadvantaged students. And another study: The Pisa evaluation on education policy has recently shown that 66 percent of schools have a shortage, a really high lack of support staff – 66 percent! And three out of ten children, ladies and gentlemen, have too little educational material and have too little schoolbooks – and that in Austria! This should give us thought, and this should make us act above all. Now I know that Minister of Education Fässmann likes to push back study results and scientific findings. I try to put it differently in the budget, I am contrasting your own government programme with the figures to be found in the budget: Funding for integration in education and support staff away from EUR 15 million: nothing to be found. I remember the 80 million euros that were still inside in 2017. The strengthening of basic education, which is so important to the Greens: No resources can be found in the budget. The better German support: no means; the strengthening of dual training: no means; lifelong learning, adult education: no more resources. – That is simply not enough, ladies and gentlemen! The budget does not change anything about the structural problems that we have in the field of education and which have been reinforced by Corona. Melisa Erkurt writes this very strikingly: Education is inherited in Austria, and: Education must be able to afford itself as a family. – The family must be able to afford to support the children at home or to pay them for assistance, parents must be able to afford to buy more learning materials, parents must be able to afford to organize and pay their children's afternoon care. The children depend on how well they are supported from home. And that's exactly the central mistake of thinking: We have to get away from a home practice school to an excellent educational school that helps all children, no matter who their parents are, no matter where they come from, what names they wear and whether they have to pay for them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] The budget should give all children the same opportunity, that is my demand, and I do not see it in any way. The budget is simply forgetful of the future. As a research spokesperson, another word on the science and research budget: This is indeed more compatible with me, but the sample of nails will still come when we discuss in detail in the committees, because I see more funds for universities and colleges, yes, and a certain sum for research funding and the research funding law, but I see nothing – this is not presented in the budget – for the Austrian funds, I see nothing for the National Foundation. And if I now assume that this is not being taught, then we will soon be back at a reduction in the research budget. So we have a lot to do in the Committee and a lot to discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5736	Next speaker: Mr Hermann Brügl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5762	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! The writer Astrid Lindgren once said: “What the world of tomorrow will look like depends to a large extent on the imagination of those who are learning to read right now.” – The world of our children, the world of tomorrow, but also very decisively depends on how we shape today’s budget policy so that we can succeed – and thus the circle of Astrid Lindgren closes again – and we must succeed in learning to read as quickly and meaningfully as possible. We need to prepare for them the opportunities and opportunities for them to be able to take advantage of them. This requires the best and it needs the most reliable school system and education system, and if we really want to, we also need to take money in our hands and always emphasize and emphasize the importance. In your budget speech, Mr Federal Minister, you just said three sentences yesterday on the educational budget, on our schools and on our school system – on an area, on a field that concerns much of the population. Parents, teachers and students have shown extreme commitment in recent months and have contributed much to the fact that the often chaotic conditions at our schools have not completely run out of the row. Three sets on the education budget, Federal Minister: That is clearly too little! They just write the educational budget – and I agree with my colleague, Künsberg Sarre – and I'm unsuspecting. The field of education has been marked by great confusion and uncertainty in the past few months: School on to school, distance learning, removal of care obligations on parents and grandparents, masquerade duty at schools yes or no, uncertainty by an unripe traffic light system, school sports yes or no, empty notes at Matura. Today the next theme has been plowed with the so-called Nost; this is also an old-known construction site, where you have been pumping around for almost ten years. There, too, the parents, the students and the teachers have done great things. Mr Bundesminister, three sentences on the education budget: That's too little! You have not said how your budget policy pushes our school system. They have not said anything about the fact that spending on classical integration agents in the school sector, such as learning the language of teaching, value-raising or conflict resolution, is constantly increasing, but at the same time there is little budget for the promotion of talent. But it is at least as important to promote those who have a higher talent, who have more talents and who are able and willing to do more. Our children deserved it very easily. Your budget, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, does not take a step towards a performance-oriented payment of teachers, although this would be necessary and important, and although we had already agreed on this in the time of our government participation. High house! Investment in education creates justice, investments in education prevent loss of education. According to a recent OECD study, ‘Education at a Glance’, the share of public expenditure on education, including universities, is below the OECD average of 11 percent in relation to public expenditure in Austria. Also, with the share of total school expenditure on gross domestic product, Austria is below the OECD average. This, the High House alone, shows that from the side of this government less indifference to our youth, to our children and for that more creativity and More will to progress needs to be made. Investment in education is investment in our youth, investment in our future and in the future of our children and investment in economic growth. And that's exactly what this country needs now, that's what the Austrians now need.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5821	Next speaker: Mrs Eva Blimlinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5842	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in plenary and in front of the screens! We are about to decide a budget for art and culture with a plus of 30 million euros – a budget that neither the SPÖ nor the ÖVP have succeeded in the art and culture ministers over the last 40 years. We, the Greens, have managed to achieve such a significant increase. The sum now available is about EUR 495 million, 500 million, depending on how you calculate it. In 2018, the then – and also current – SPÖ cultural speaker, Drozda, said that it would take about 500 million euros in 2021, so you can do anything at all. – It will be EUR 530 million, and so it is a step forward for art and culture, a movement that has not been there in the last 40 years. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Obernosterer.]] Maybe a word about the NEOS, which here is always so much about deregulation: In New York all museums closed by next year, all theatres closed by next year. This is the result of deregulation – that is, when art and culture are left alone to the market and to the private, and if it is not the state that ensures that art and culture are made accessible to all in this country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] At this point, I say to many, thank you to all those who have tried in recent months to put all possible formats on their feet, so that people can enjoy art and culture in the pandemic, consume, participate in it. – Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What will the 30 million euros be for now? – A large part will be for the so-called free scene. What's that? – The free scene are those who, in cultural initiatives, who are spread throughout Austria at small festivals, which are there and there, make art and culture, so to speak, that prepare the artists involved. My thanks also apply to all the interest groups, whether it be the visual arts, whether it be the community of interests of art and culture. The free scene, however, also belongs to the film, the film promotion. It also includes the co-financing of Bad Ischl as the Capital of Culture in 2024. It is always about promoting artists with the first glance, those who very often live in precarious conditions. In this context, Fair Pay is a special concern for us. What is Fair Pay? – Fair Pay means that even off the collective contract “paid” – under quotation marks – workers’ contract wages are paid, labor contract fees, which correspond to a semi-normal standard of income, so that exploitation in the art and culture scene, which unfortunately has already taken far too much space, can be countered. The reference to the artists: Well, you like it!, is really not an argument for poor payment or no payment – yes, I like to do it and get much more paid – quite the contrary! Another area that is financed by this 30 million euros is the renovation of the festival houses – that is the other spectrum – in Bregenz and Salzburg, but also by Ateliers and so on. I would like to make two more points on other budgets: It is a special concern and a special pleasure for me that the People's Budget – including a budget that has never succeeded in increasing over the last few decades – will be increased from 3.9 to 7.9 percent. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In view of the 100th anniversary of the referendum in Carinthia, I can very much thank President Alexander Van der Bellen for his excuse in Klagenfurt at this place on behalf of the Greens. I think it is also good for us to apologize to the Carinthian Slovenians for the action in the Second Republic. This means strengthening the ethnic groups and at the same time giving a message to the ORF to extend the People's Group Programme to several groups, not just providing a quarter of an hour for Czechs and Slovaks, because there is a greater need. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, a word to the universities: Mr Niss has already mentioned that the second phase of the funding can be continued by around 1.2 billion euros. Of course, the universities would have liked to have more. That would have been good, but this amount will definitely cover the second phase. This means, above all, improving the care conditions for students and maintaining the same where they are already good. At the end of my speech as always: By the way, I am in favour of finally being renamed to Richard-Wadani-Kaserne.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5933	There is now no mention of this. This concludes the debate at the first reading of the Federal Finance Act. I assign 380 of the Supplements to the Committee on Budgets. The agenda is exhausted. [[12:42:09]] Short debate: Disbursement Community Investment Programme 2020
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5967	We arrive at the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Finance with the order number 2909/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Comments from members of the Federal Government, I also point out, should also not last more than 10 minutes. Mr Andreas Kollross spoke. - You're already at the speaker's desk. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6009	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values listeners and listeners at home! I start with a question that probably raises several here in the hall and also at home: What can Gernot Blümel do? As the President-in-Office has said, I have 10 minutes of speaking time and this is not a full evening discussion, so we are just about to answer this question, and I will come to the next question: What can't Gernot Blümel do? – Unfortunately, the speaking time is not enough, but I will still try to present this in a few points. For example, the Minister of Finance cannot remember – 86 times in the Committee of Inquiry. [[Call to the ÖVP: Who counted that?]] Every person with loss of memory is a changing lexicon against the Minister of Finance. For example, he has no idea if he owns a laptop or not. [[Oje-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] There are photos from the past from the Minister of Finance, on which he works on a laptop, but that is the message control. [[Abg. Gerstl: Oh, infallible!]] That's where the photos suggest work, but it would be time, Minister, for you to actually start working once. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Blossom can't create a budget, we know. [[Abg. Gerstl: Did you have that written down to you?]] If there wasn't Kai Jan Krainer, we would have looked very tired a few weeks ago. Blossoms cannot fill out a form to obtain EU funding. [[Call the ÖVP:FPÖ level!]] He can't bind any auxiliary packages either. At the end of the day, everything he does in this area proves to be a piper. This also applies to the community assistance package. The answer to this question has already shown: Of this great 1 billion euro – Mr Muchitsch has already responded to it today – only 4 percent have been met by the municipalities so far. This is because, in the present situation, the communities have quite different problems than getting funding. In reality, they need to consider how they can maintain what they offer to their citizens at all, and do not think specifically of new projects that they need to pre-finance 50 percent in order to get the remaining 50 percent from the Ministry of Finance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Then it'll be interesting: A letter from a financial employee of a municipality to the competent authority responsible for handling these grants shall be as follows: I have been trying, for some time, to make a request through the system, but I do not succeed because I always get the following error message: Error calculating the formula. - Quote. The body's answer is: Thank you for pointing out the form error. We have already mentioned this to the operator of the site. It is already working on fixing the error. Please be patient and try again in the next few days. - Quote. Now one could say, okay, that's probably a letter from July when this law was passed. – Far from it! That's an answer from 12. October. [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] For four months, the system with which the communities can apply for funding has not worked in part – for four months! Flowering cannot even properly ensure that you can make applications on a homepage – for a promotion that does not work anyway. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] The Minister of Finance – and therefore we are at the point – of course cannot answer questions, he cannot rule of law, he cannot be transparent, and he apparently does not know about data protection at all. By the way, Mr Drobits told me that I should like to tell you if you want to get more information, he is willing to give you a small teaching unit on data protection. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To the question: Mr Stöger and I have put a question to the municipal investment programme and wanted to know how much of this 1 billion euro has already been paid to individual communities, so not a sum, but in concrete terms: How much has every single community got and what for? The answer of the Minister of Finance is: ‘For data protection reasons, according to § 1 of the DSG, specific notification of the municipalities must be distanced, including for further answers.’ Then he writes: ‘In view of the large number of letters received, a detailed reply must be distanced from the administrative economy.’ Mr. Minister, are you okay? You decide whether to give an answer or not? You decide whether it is too difficult to give an answer to a Member of Parliament and the public as a whole? You want to determine that? [[Call the ÖVP: Get a little bit together!]] [[Further call at the ÖVP: Unheard! He doesn't have to be let in by everyone.]] You're a philosopher. You probably also know diogenes in the ton. I would recommend: Come on. You get out of the ton and don't constantly shape the Republic as a banana republic – because that's what you do with your permanent constitutional breaks that you operate there!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6187	Mr Kollross, I would ask you to be a little moderate in terms of expression. You can continue now.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6209	Thank you. To the data protection – the time, unfortunately, is much too slow –: They always disagree. Once you say it's data protection, then last week was the Federal Council meeting, as you said again No, no, no data protection, it's just so complicated, but of course we like to comply! [[Abg. Head is at the government bank and talks with Federal Minister Blümel]] [[Abg. Greiner:... as Federal Minister and he doesn't even listen!]] [[further calls to the SPÖ]] – The data protection is no longer valid at once, you could provide the information at once. In addition, the following comments were made: You still haven't submitted the information, even to the Federal Council. However, I do not want to talk too long, and therefore only a few examples of whether this is part of data protection or not. Then I read in the “Vorarlberger Nachrichten” of Tuesday this week that the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance sent from themselves information to the “Vorarlberger Nachrichten”, which Vorarlberg municipalities have already applied for and paid for. [[keeping a copy in height]] That is to say, the “Vorarlberg news” does not apply to data protection, but to a Member, to Parliament and to the public as a whole, according to your opinion, is the data protection. - Excuse me, Minister, that's ridiculous! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gerstl:... The dignity of the house!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] It's also ridiculous what happened when the law was passed: Since these ÖVP seats have been distributed in all communities – immediately, you were quick, because there was media work to do public work, when paying out you are not so fast – and in all communities they have been distributed. [[Keeping a document in height]] It is clearly written: The community X, the community Y gets out of this package so and so many money. – But how much they have already received should now be covered by data protection at once! - I'm sorry, that's not how it is. I conclude by saying: Minister, do you know – I don't know, do you want to look at me? – this Excel table? [[Keeping a multi-paged document in height]] – Communalinvestitionsgesetz 2017, the same thing we are now discussing about in 2019, only from 2017. This is an Excel table, in which is finely clean, which individual community in the years 2017 and 2018 has received what sum from the Community Investment Act 2017. Now guess where I got it from! – It comes from the website of the Ministry of Finance. In other words, the Community Investment Act 2017 does not apply to data protection, to a request from colleagues Stöger and to me he already applies at once! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Greiner.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] That is why I would like to conclude by saying to Mr Sobotka, who is unfortunately not present, that it is time for the President to turn on, because it is always the same: The right of inquiry is followed by some and especially by you with feet. It will be time, Mr Sobotka, wherever you are in this house, for you to finally read Mr Blümel's Levites. That is urgently necessary! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6347	Next speaker: Mr Manfred Hofinger. [[Abg. Lightness's got that hand.]] Mr President, I have seen you too late, I have already given the floor, but after Mr Hofinger's speech, we can enter a debate on the Rules of Procedure. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6372	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Without assessing the nature of Mr Kollross's expression, I would like to say one thing: In all the remarks it was not about the congregations, so the well-being of the congregations is apparently not important to you. [[ongoing calls to the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the content I would like to say: That this does not work with the application of the municipalities to the Federal Accounting Agency, I simply do not take it. I am on my way in many communities and I hear there: You already got the money. You didn't just make the request, you already got the money! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] With this municipal investment package for the municipalities in 2020, I believe we have tied up a very good package to compensate for the income losses of the municipalities. The share of income and the local tax are the main sources of income of the municipalities, but these fell due to the corona crisis and the lack of economic performance, which is naturally linked to the crisis. But with this very programme, we can make a lot of necessary investments in the communities, and I think that we have put together a good package as a whole: It stimulates the economy, creates jobs, secures jobs, and implements many very good projects in the individual communities. By now the municipalities have submitted 2,139 applications and 256 million euros have already been applied for. However, the fact is that two thirds of the municipalities have not yet applied for anything, so as a local speaker my urgent appeal to the municipalities is also: You must make the request! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It is not quite easy, however, because it is of course left to the communities, in which projects they invest the money, and of course they also have to work it out in the municipal council and decide there. This takes his time, and therefore we have extended the deadline: You can apply until the end of next year and then charge these projects until 2024. I believe that this is a crucial point, that we also give the communities the necessary time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As a local speaker, I also took advantage of the time in summer. I was in many communities in my region and had talks with the mayors and officials. They are all happy about this investment package and most municipalities already have a project to implement in the pipeline. They are all thinking and many beautiful projects will emerge. There are problems not with the application, but rather with the question of how to divide the funds in the congregation. I am a mayor myself in a small town with 1 300 inhabitants in the beautiful Inn district. We started a channel project last year, and according to the requirements of the application, we can also include projects which have already started last year and whose financing is difficult due to the corona crisis. I am very happy that we can implement such a new settlement project with 20 houses. That is exactly where the investment package for local authorities is coming in just in time. In many other communities too, beautiful projects are being implemented, road renovation, the change to LED lighting and, as the reports indicate, very many investments in childcare facilities and schools. That is, I think, a very great added value for the population. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But there are, of course, regional differences, and I also give right to those who criticize something. We in Upper Austria are lucky that the country is also supporting us, and that, I believe, is a very important part, because this investment, this municipal billion, actually has an added value of 2 billion euros, because of course it is necessary to raise own resources. This is not quite easy for some financially weak communities, and of course the countries are also asked to provide support. In Upper Austria this works, I think, very, very well, so the ordinary budget is also covered in the individual communities and these projects can be implemented. Very briefly on the question of data protection [[President Bures gives the bell sign]] § 1 of the Data Protection Act says, I also believe, that natural and legal persons have the right to data protection, and there are also communities to do so. The numbers are all public - -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6467	Ladies and gentlemen, please put the final sentence to the vote. We've agreed to 5 minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6482	It is now important not to pool and talk about data protection, but to animated the communities, to pick up the money and to make the request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6510	I now have a word for business treatment. Please, Mr Leichtfried.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6536	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I'm a little surprised now. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It corresponds to the use of this House that, in itself, the applicant receives his 10 minutes' speaking time at a request, in which he tries to ask the questions to the Minister of State which were not answered in the reply to the question, and usually the member of the government speaks and tries to relativize, answer or otherwise answer things. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] [[Call the ÖVP: He didn't! He didn't ask a single question!]] [[Abg. Fürlinger: He has ordered him!]] [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] Mr Blümel, Federal Minister, is accused of having written an illegal response to the question, and he is now sitting there, as if it were not his concern. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] Excuse me, Mr Federal Minister, is it not embarrassing for you to sit down and pretend that you are not concerned about all this here in this House? That's incredible! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] Mr Federal Minister, I now ask you: Answer the things you are asked! Do not just sit around here, as if Parliament did not care, because this impression is now slow. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] They disregard parliamentarianism here. [[Abg. Fürlinger: Painful is what Mr. Kollross... has!]] That's what you do by not doing anything here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstl.]] Now answer Mr Kollross's questions and don't point out around! That would belong. I'd be ashamed of you!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6648	I ask if there are any further statements on business treatment. - That's not the case. I would point out that, according to § 57a of the Rules of Procedure, as I said earlier, there can be an opinion from the Federal Minister. There's no obligation, but it's like saying Use. Mr Minister, I do not know exactly whether you are going to speak. [[Federal Minister Blümel: Yes!]] - You didn't report to me, but that's not a problem. I haven't called the next speaker either. Then I give the floor to you, Minister. The deadline is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6685	Madam President. High house! I do not understand the excitement at all, because I have not been called, so I have not spoken. That was the colleague who was called, I follow him. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] If you feel that this is a disregard for parliamentary practices, then this is your case, Mr President. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] At the beginning of this short debate, as was often the case here in the High House, also in the Federal Council, I can stress that the Federal Government is very aware of the financial situation that exists in all areas of the country and also in the Austrian communities. Of course, the loss of revenue, which is corona due to it, affects all areas of the country. No one in the state will be doing a big business this year. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] In order to bring Austria as far as possible through this challenging time, we follow the same principles in all our aid measures. The priority is always to save lives, jobs and businesses, to deliver citizens and to strengthen their economic location. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] This is exactly what we do with the municipal package of 1 billion euros, with which the federal government takes over up up up to 50 percent of the investments to ensure value creation directly on site. This package is based on the last municipal investment programme in 2017, which has been negotiated with SPÖ. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] However, we have made massive expansions in relation to this previous package. The Federal Government now takes over up to 50 percent of the cost of projects in the period 1st. June 2020 to 31. ==References====External links== In June 2019, financing was started if funding is no longer possible as a result of the corona crisis. At KIG 2017, there was a funding share of only 25 percent. So you see, in this new municipal investment law, we are much more flexible and there is also much more money available for the communities, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The municipality of Vienna, for example, receives a total of 238 million euros from this package. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross.]] This amount is the maximum amount of funding resulting from the allocation key for Vienna. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] This key is known for every community and already published. We will of course be very happy to communicate what we are allowed to announce. In addition, it is also free for the communities to communicate via their applications and their projects, which are financed by them – many communities have already done so. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstl.]] But what we cannot say for legal reasons, of course, we cannot say that, and that is why I come to your question today. As has already been stated several times in the House, also in the Federal Council, in writing and in person, Parliament's right to interact is a fundamental right, a pillar of democracy, and therefore the Ministry of Finance takes this right very seriously. I have, of course, already answered a number of questions to these complexes, and I have done so in both chambers. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Light peace.]] Only last week did I provide up-to-date information in the Federal Council when answering a urgent request. Why do I have the request that is currently being made? Is this the answer? – Because it is a fact that only if communities agree to a publication of concrete details, according to § 1 para. 2 first sentence DSG has no data protection concerns. A consent from the municipalities to publish the data as a condition for the purpose grant would be of legal concern. It is very likely that aggregated data can be reported, which cannot be traced back to individual communities, such as at district level. For the Federal Ministry of Finance and all data protection bodies responsible for the financial sector, the protection of personal data is a top priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6803	Mr Alois Stöger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6835	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First to honourable Members Hofinger: First of all, thank you for all these remarks, they confirm one thing quite clearly: The SPÖ's proposal to make 250 euros available to the mayor for each citizen of the municipality. September 2020, would have been the unbureaucratic way, because the mayors could have done what they needed for their community, and would not have suffered in a confusion of bureaucracy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] I say it again: Even the SPÖ has confidence in the majority of ÖVP mayors who know how to deal with the money you need in the community. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now to the Federal Minister: Mr Bundesminister, quite honestly, one question: Do you really want to apply for the title K.-u.-k-secret? [[Call the ÖVP:No!]] What you're doing is going in that direction. [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: Naughtiness!]] They have not learned what it means in a democracy to speak and answer Parliament. [[Call the ÖVP: Did he? He did it!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] We clearly no longer have a monarchy in which we can hide. We have a democracy, and if you take the concept of responsibility, you have to say something to Parliament and thus to the public, to the people. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] You have not done this – even in contrast to what you said in your speech. To date, we have no answer to question 8 of the urgent question in the Federal Council, which concerns the presentation of which communities have received how much money. [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: He just explained that!]] You did that now, but you didn't. [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: Well, bravo!]] Secondly, Mr. Federal Minister, do you know the term VRV? – This is a regulation of the Federal Minister for Finance. This is the proposal regulation which clearly regulates what a municipality must publish in its budget and in its financial statements. There you or your predecessor have ordered that the community should lead what it gets from the covenant. That is to say, it cannot be a secret data, it is public data, because it is also public issues; there is no data protection. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On questions 13 and 14, which we asked you yesterday: Listen to what we asked! [[towards ÖVP]] We asked the Federal Minister for Finance: How many communities in Austria cannot balance their budget? – Do you know what answer we got? – The Federal Minister of the Republic publicly states that he has no idea how many communities in Austria cannot compensate for the budget. [[Abg. Hörl: Because you have not allowed the transparency database!]] Mr. Federal Minister, there are organizational debt. [[Abg. Hörl: Mr Stöger, Diplômé! You have not approved the transparency database!]] If a Federal Minister who has the overall responsibility for the budget of this Republic, for the sum of all the budgets, has no idea what is happening in the communities, then I feel that the communities are wretched for you and that you are also the budget of the whole. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In conclusion: It was mentioned that this Federal Government is very, we say, loosely dealing with parliamentary rights, with the right of interconnection. I can only remind you that Mrs Petra Wimmere's question at the special care period has been put, and it has not been answered in the light of the constitutional obligation to reply within two months to this day. [[Call the SPÖ:Hear! Listen!]] I would like to point out that Mr Anschober, the Federal Minister, has referred to the question of who is responsible for school closures in my district, and he is not responsible for Corona. – That is how this federal government cannot deal with Parliament! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7017	The next speaker is Mr Erwin Angerer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7041	Mr President. Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take advantage of the SPÖ's question-answer discussion to say a few general things on the subject of community and municipal finances, and thus, above all, to address the mayors in the individual ranks. Perhaps some federal politician does not understand the situation in which the communities are located, so I would like to point this out again. If you look at the general government revenue, then of the general government revenue you get about two thirds of the federal government, about 20 percent go to the countries and about 11 percent to the municipalities. In recent years and decades, the communities have always been able to make this money, and they have been able to generate surpluses in total in Austria – this is also reflected in the municipal financial report. For the first time in 2019, the federal government has been doing this for 65 years. The municipalities and the mayors – there are some sitting here and above just smile at me – know how they handle money sparingly, expediently and economically and with it budgeting. [[towards Abg. Baumgartner]] This must be borne in mind to the communities, no matter who they are led. What do the communities do with this money? – The essential things of daily life are provided by the communities. This starts with childcare and ends with senior care. We operate through our associations of senior homes, we operate through our associations school community associations, public schools and primary schools. We're the schoolkeepers, we've got employees there. The municipalities do all that is needed in the area of infrastructure, from water supply, from wastewater disposal, from the Waste disposal up to the entire infrastructure that a community and its citizens need. All of this is financed by the so-called ordinary household of a municipality. Anyone who dominates the small one - I assume, Minister of Finance, that you can do that - knows that if the revenue of the state breaks into the billions as it is now – that means 2 billion euros for the municipalities and 5 to 6 billion euros for the countries – then we will no longer be able to maintain these structures that are necessary for the population. That is why the Federation will have to help because the communities are not able – my mayors will support me again – to finance themselves because they cannot. They are not authorized by municipal supervision to finance themselves in the free market – as the federal government is doing today – so that they can get money into the municipal funds they need for interim financing, for maintaining their daily tasks. What is today the municipal investment package, which we as the Freeman have called for as the first, is a package to strengthen the economy even in a first step by receiving orders from our local, regional enterprises. The municipalities are one of the most important clients in this country, and if we can no longer implement the projects, this also harms the economy. But this has nothing to do with the general budget, with the ordinary budget and with maintaining the standard tasks of a community at all. That is why there is a need for additional help and an additional package for the communities. Many communities – and this is also read from this response to the question – are of course not able to implement these projects because of the loss of revenue, regardless of the fact that one has tried to allow, I say, green rules and conditions of this collection of funds only for certain projects and one has been very complicated. It is necessary to make a huge effort to make these applications so that they can be implemented and, above all, to have appropriate projects. However, it will not go without additional assistance to the communities, and that is why we made a request before the summer to create a community compensation fund in order to provide additional resources to the communities. This will be necessary to enable them to maintain their duties. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7095	Mrs. Dr. Elisabeth Götze has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7120	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the outset, I would like to address the issue of data protection, which is the reason for this brief debate. There is the statement by the data protection officer of the BMF and the Financial Procuratorship that the data of the municipalities may not be published. We'll look at that and act accordingly. [[Call the SPÖ:... public! Look!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] However, I would like to take the debate or the request to talk about communities and think that is a nice opportunity because I am convinced that the communities in Austria are very important. [[Calls and calls between Mr Matznetter and Mr Koza.]] Thank you so much for the opportunity to talk about it. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] There are 2 095 communities in Austria, we all have a home community, and the communities are very responsible for how we feel in the country, also for how community life works or how the quality of life is in the community. We have already heard it, we have an economic crisis, we have the Corona crisis, and the government has also responded with regard to the communities and has bound up the municipal investment package. At the beginning of October, 90 million euros were already paid for 790 projects. That is, the communities are picking up the money. What do you pick it up for? – For their duties in the communities. More than 40 percent of the disbursed funds went into schools and kindergartens, rehabilitation, maintenance, expansion and new construction. [[Abg. Lightness: How do you know that?]] This is a core task of the community, and I know that because it is in the answer to the question you have made. I have read the answers. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] 10 per cent are used for water supply and canal – including the core tasks of the communities, not so visible, but quite crucial – for fire brigade buildings and for the renovation of roads, because communities are also responsible for this, and 5 per cent are responsible for living local cores. These are the payments made so far, but good projects need as you know, time, and many projects are still in the pipeline, so to speak, in preparation. The communities are working to get their money. They know how much money is available to them, this is also easy to retrieve on the website of the Ministry of Finance, and the communities are planning and considering what they want to do with the money, also in order to combine funding. The colleague has already said that it is possible to provide double and multiple funding, for example in Lower Austria, the establishment of walking and cycling routes is also massively supported by the country. A wheel base network is to be established in Lower Austria and up to 100 percent of the projects can be funded. Whatever the case is: The money is paid immediately after application, which creates liquidity in the community, and directly means on average – that is my information, I am a local politician – within four weeks, and with this money the community can work. At the end of the project, account shall be taken of at the latest at the end of 2024. That really gives the communities a lot of time. Summary: I think it's a great package, and yes, we're still talking to local government, with city councils, with mayors and mayors, and if we need further support, we'll also have them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7190	Next speaker: Dipl.-Ing. Karin double farmer. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7215	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Yes, today – and many of us have followed it on the weekend – it is a question of Mr. Blümel's having a parliamentary response to certain support for communities with the argument that data protection has once again to be said. As has been said, the debate is not quite unexpected, we have all read papers on the weekend. I would like to start with the following: They all know that NEOS is really a party of transparency. It is really important to us that all the data are transparently presented and democratically controlled; but, dear SPÖ, you will again be sending Mr Kollross – back there he is, yes, exactly – to the mayor of Kollross and here to fuel a debate on transparency, which is really almost paradoxical intervention. [[Congratulation with NEOS, ÖVP and Greens.]] Let me explain briefly why I mean that. I hope you can see it a bit, it's not quite readable: [[a panel with the representation of different sizes, different colours, placed on the speaker's desk]] These are municipalities in Lower Austria. Now when you see this white spot, ladies and gentlemen, surrounded by a circle that stands in Red "Trumau": This is the white stain of Trumau. Trumau – a beautiful community, a beautiful castle, but one of Austria's most intrude communities! [[We welcome the NEOS, as well as representatives of the ÖVP and Greens.]] Why do I say that? – This white spot means nothing more than that Mr. Mayor Kollross refuses to make two clicks – click twice! – and thus disclose the municipal events of the municipality of Trumau on the Internet at www.open Budget.at. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Look! Look!]] I mean, seriously. I don't know why you're going to open it again. We had exactly the same discussion in spring, and in spring I asked you: Just do that, the KDZ has shown it to me, it's really easy, it's two clicks and you have a really transparent household in your community, Mr. Mayor Kollross! And by the way: The orange, which is next door, is the municipality of Traiskirchen. There is also a red mayor, but he dared these two clicks. It obviously has nothing to hide, it is transparent at www.opener budget.at, as well as 1,200 other communities in Austria. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and MEPs of the Greens.]] Yes, well – don't misunderstand, dear SPÖ –, Transparency is really something that really bothers me, but again: Mr Kollross was here to present, I believe, not the best decision of today. [[Congratulation with NEOS and ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But now on the subject, because the law of interconnection, which has been discussed today, is already a very important issue – Josef Urschitz has said it very well in a column. He said, on the one hand, it is really more and more subject that government members answer requests – he has so called it – according to the taste’s method, so de facto does not respond at all well. We are currently seeing this very strongly in the Ministry of Finance. He has justifiably said, however, that many parliamentary questions are becoming more and more political agitations, and that is not all right, and that is what we all have to take to heart here. But what would be very, very important – now I come back to the issue of transparency; we have already discussed it today during the budget speech – is that we really take transparency into account and that, in particular, the Federal Government finally fulfils its commitment and creates a truly good database of transparency. Nine years ago, a black predecessor – I am now deliberately saying so – created a transparency database by the ÖVP, with the aim of ensuring that all funding is actually registered. But that didn't happen. We're talking, mine. Ladies and gentlemen, of 20 billion euros, which are awarded under this title every year, completely opaque. We all know there are double promotions, there are triple promotions, there are quite a few analyses about it: Who gets it, why does it get it and how does it work, above all, those funds that are spent here? Magic word: Transparency – the most important ingredient in the fight against corruption, as we all know. I recommend that we also read the analysis of the budget service – we all received it; a very, very important document. [[Keeping a specimen in height]] Here again, I would like to thank you very much for the budget service. It also argues with many examples where there is transparency. We have to say that the budget service is also calling for more specific transparency from the Ministry of Finance, and I ask you to do so. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] My last sentence: I really don't know who found his master here today: Is it Mayor Kollross? Is it Finance Minister Blümel? – I don’t know! But what I already know is that the future needs courageous politicians who really trust themselves, inefficient and anti-performance structures at last to break up in order to carry on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7306	No one is reporting on this. The debate is therefore closed. [[13:28:05]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7328	I announce that in today's session, the self-employed have received applications 959/A(E) to 965/A(E). I call the next meeting of the National Council at 13.28 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. The agenda was done in writing. This meeting is closed.
