ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e5979	Ladies and gentlemen! I can get the 8th. The European Council held a meeting of the National Council. I welcome all the Members present, particularly those who are newly welcomed. I am pleased to welcome the President of the Federal Republic and his wife to us. I am pleased that the Federal Government is fully present. I can also warmly welcome the guests at the gallery: the Presidents of Parliament are out of service, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany is out of service, the President of the Court of Auditors and the Presidents of the Chamber are also present today and also many representatives of the media. I can also all ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the televisions at our 8. Welcome to the National Council meeting. The unreaded parts of the official protocols of the 6th and 7ths. Meeting of 11. December 2019 are present in the Parliamentary Directorate and have not been challenged. For today's sitting as prevented, MEPs are reported Mag. Thomas Drozda, Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, Andreas Kollrossund Wolfgang Zanger. [[09:07:10]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6027	I may announce that the Federal Electoral Authority has received the notice that the Members of Parliament are Magistrate. Dr. Juliane Bogner-Strauß, Mag. Werner Kogler, Leonore Geessler, BA, Dr. Alma Zadić, LL.M., Stefan Kaieder, Sebastian Kurz, Karl Nehammer, MSc, Elisabeth Köstinger, Dr. Margarete Schramböck and Mag. Gernot Blümel, MBA waived their mandates. The mandate of Mr Bogner-Strauß was given to Mrs Martina Kaufmann, Mr MMSc BAzugewiesen, and Mr Josef Smolle was appointed to the National Council. Instead of Mr Kogler, Mrs Heike Grebien, instead of Mr Geessler, became Mrs Mag. Agnes Sirkka Prammer, instead of Mr Zadić, became Mr Mag. Georg Bürstmayr, instead of Mr Kaineder, was appointed to the National Council by Mr Clemens Stammler and, instead of Deputie Kurz, Ms Irene Neumann-Hartberger. Instead of Mr Nehammer, Mr Mag. Dr. Rudolf Taschner, instead of Deputies Köstinger, became Mr. Mag. Peter Weidinger, instead of Deputies Schramböck, was Mrs. Ing. May. (FH) Alexandra Tanda and instead of Mr Blümel, Mrs Mag. Romana Deckenbacher appointed to the National Council. As the electorate is already present and the members of the House are present, I can make the fishing immediately. After reading the vow formulas and calling for names through the writing, the new Members will have to do their fishing with the words “I promise”. I may ask the writer for the reading of the vow formula and the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6182	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.” (On behalf of the scribe Gahr, Members of the European Parliament shall make Mag. Georg Bürstmayr, Mag. Romana Deckenbacher, Heike Grebien, Irene Neumann-Hartberger, Mag. Agnes Sirkka Prammer, Dr. Josef Smolle, Clemens Stammler, Mag. Dr. Rudolf Tashner and Mag. Peter Weidinger's Angelobung with the words "I praise." – Abg. Ing. May. (FH) Alexandra Tanda, after calling on her name, makes the Angelobung with the addition “As true God help me.”)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6278	I should like to welcome the new Members in our midst. A few already have parliamentary experience, a few are quite new. I wish you every success, especially for your political activity as a Member of Parliament. [[09:10:14]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6299	The Federal Chancellor has received the following letter: “I am honoured to inform you that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 7. January 2020 [...] the Federal Government responsible for the continuation of the administration has deposed from the Office.’ There is also a letter from the Federal Chancellor concerning the appointment of the members of the new Federal Government: “I am honoured to inform you that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 7. In accordance with Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act, January 2020 [...] has appointed me Federal Chancellor. In addition, the President of the Federal Republic of [...] has power on my proposal. Werner KOGLER as Deputy Chancellor and Federal Minister for Public Service and Sport, “Univ.-Prof. Dr. Heinz FASSMANN as Federal Minister for Education, Science and Research”, “Dr. Margarete SCHRAMBÖCK on the Federal Minister for Digitalisation and Economic Location, “Elisabeth KÖSTINGER on the Federal Minister for Sustainability and Tourism”, “Mag. Gernot BLUMEL, MBA as Federal Minister for Finance, “Mag. Alexander SCHALLENBERG, LL.M as the Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and External Affairs, “Rudolf ANSCHOBER as the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs, Health and Consumer Protection”, “Mag. “Karl NEHAMMER, MSc as the Federal Minister for the Interior”, “Leonore GEWESSLER, BA on the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology”, “Dr. Alma ZADI paper, LL.M Federal Minister for Constitution, Reforms, Deregulation and Justice and [...] Mag. Karoline EDTSTADLER, “Mag. (FH) Christine ASCHBACHER, “MMag. Dr. Susanne Raab – each – was appointed “Federal Minister without a portfolio. In addition, the President of the Federal Republic of [...] Mag. Ulrike LUNACEK appointed as State Secretary and to support the management and parliamentary representation of the Federal Minister for Public Service and Sport as well as Dr. Magnus BRUNNER, LL.M appointed State Secretary and attached him to support in the management and parliamentary representation of the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology.” I should like to point out that photographers are working again during today's and future National Council meetings on behalf of Parliament's Directorate. A 360-degree photo is now being prepared to document this meeting. The construction of the camera will take place immediately. The recording will take a few minutes. To get a corresponding quality recording, I'm looking for you to stay in your places. I should like to interrupt the meeting for the implementation of this reception.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6360	I'm allowed to start the interrupted session again. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6382	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6661	I can tell you that the first report of the Incompatibilities Committee was distributed to the members of the National Council. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6679	Before entering the agenda, I may inform the House that Mrs Prince has requested that the Budget Committee report on the application 20/A to the Committee on Budgetary Control a period of 20 years. To put on January. The motion for a resolution shall be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. I may announce that the meeting of the National Council is to be held from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. as usual, then ORF III forwards this meeting by 7.15 p.m., and then the meeting will be transmitted to the TV library. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6706	It is proposed that the debates on points 2 and 3 of the agenda should be summarized. Is there any objection? - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6727	Consensus on the design and duration of the debates was reached between the members of the presidential conference. In accordance with Article 3(2) of a day block time of 7 ‘Vienna hours’ agreed, so that speaking times are as follows: ÖVP 137, SPÖ 95, FPÖ 77, Green 70 and NEOS 56 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club each 28 minutes; in addition, the speaking time shall be limited to 5 minutes per debate. The following statement was agreed for the debate on item 1: Speakers’ round – counter/pro – another speaker – counter/pro, speech by one member of the Federal Government of ÖVP and Greens, further debate on the government statement – counter/pro. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft and the speaking times that have just been presented. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign of approval. – That is unanimous. I can thank you very much. Before we go into the agenda, I should like to thank you once again for the presence of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. Through his presence, he clearly completes the political whole of the state. I should like to thank Mrs Bundeskanzler for his constructive and objective cooperation in recent months on behalf of all the parliamentarians as well as the Parliamentary Directorate and our staff. – Through your actions and your actions and through the leadership of a proportional civil servant government, you have provided a very essential service to our state. Thank you very much! [[General condolences.]] Finally, under the leadership of the Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurzund of Vice-Chancellor Werner Kogler, I can warmly welcome the new Federal Government – the first federal government in which more female than male members bear responsibility; this is also a premiere in the Austrian government calendar. I should like the new Federal Government to wish everything possible good for its work and to ask for good, constructive and very subject-oriented cooperation with us parliamentarians. [[09:19:44]] 1. Point Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on the occasion of the accession of the new Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6799	We are now going to Agenda item 1. Following these declarations, a debate will take place within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with this request, which is sufficiently supported. – Mr Bundeskanzler, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6824	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Mr President of the National Council! Appreciate guest of honor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen in the Federal Government! But, above all, of course: Estimated Austrians! It is a pleasure and an honor for me to be here today and to present to you the new Federal Government for Austria. We are setting up a new chapter in our country, and I would like to start with a thank you, with a great deal of thanks to all the Austrians who gave us on 29 October. She gave her confidence on September and thus set the direction in our country. It is a great pleasure for me to continue the work for our beautiful Austria. The last time I was sitting here on the government bank was the day of the vote of distrust in May 2019. Today we are back, elected, strengthened by voters, and therefore it is a day of humility and also of gratitude. I would like to use this day to give all Austrians a clear promise: We will work hard every day to live up to your trust, and we will do everything we can to lead Austria into a good future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The transitional period last year was not easy for our country. I would therefore like to thank the Federal President Van der Bellen, but also Chancellor Bierlein for the care and the way in which the country was led at this time. But I would also like to thank the other parliamentary parties very much. I'll start with the Freedom Party: I thank you for the always good cooperation we had in the past Federal Government. However, I would also like to thank Social Democracy and NEOS for the constructive exploratory talks that we were able to conduct after the election in September. I hope that the culture of discussion, which prevailed after the election and during the exploratory phase, will manage to keep a bit far and find a respectful cooperation here in the High House – between opposition and government. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Above all, however, my thanks to Werner Kogler and the representatives of the Greens. The government negotiations were not always easy – there are two very different parties working together in terms of content and culture – but they were always borne by respect and trust. It was a new form of compromise that makes it possible for both parties to preserve their identity and deliver their central election promises. Through hard work and the willingness on both sides to make compromises, a coalition of voters has succeeded, and therefore a warm thanks to Werner Kogler and the Greens for the way in which the government negotiations have taken place. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, governments are responsible: Take responsibility, which will be granted by the Sovereign – the Austrians – and always with the clear goal of leading Austria into a good future. We all need to be aware that we are living in a very privileged time when we look back and face up to what our parents, grandparents and great-grandparents had to experience. We should be aware that we live in a privileged country, hardly comparable to most other countries in the world. Although we live in a privileged country during this privileged period, we now take almost everything as a matter of course. The prosperity that has led to a good quality of life for all Austrians, the social state, which is almost unique in the world, and also our place in the middle of a united Europe surrounded by peaceful neighbouring states, we have already got used to all of this. Just because this is so, today, as I believe, is a good occasion to make itself aware again that it is not natural that it is appropriate to be grateful for It is also necessary to work hard daily to strengthen the achievements of our beautiful Austria and take nothing but for granted. Especially in today's time, there is a change and a shift in power relations. The United States is still the strongest military and economic power in the world, but they have become an unpredictable partner for us. China is economically and militaryly emerging, but at the same time equipped with a completely different value foundation and state understanding. Russia, our largest neighbour in the East, has been back in recent years in a phase in which tensions with Europe have become no less, but rather more. Although we as the European Union are an incredible success project, we sometimes have a slightly weak decision-making capacity and not a 100 percent capability to act on these international issues. Economic conditions change dramatically. The globalised world – globalised competition – also has an ever stronger impact on the location of Austria, and it is becoming increasingly tougher especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. Technological progress is progressing so rapidly that, almost every year, a new transformation in the economy and the labour market is taking place, and new challenges that challenge us, such as the migration issue that threatens our system and the social state, if we fail to successfully protect our external borders, and natural disasters that remind us of the importance of dealing properly with creation and with our environment. The new Federal Government has been elected to make decisions on all these issues so that Austria can be the world-wide, safe and prosperous country that it is today, so that the European Union can use its weight to carry peace, stability and democratic values throughout the world and that we can all make our contribution together, all Austrians, because that is the basis for the success of our country. The government programme, ladies and gentlemen, meets all these ideas and these demands and unites the best of both worlds. It was for the first time possible not to close minimum compromises, but to allow both parties to enforce their handwriting in essential areas. I now have the pleasure of giving you an insight into this programme, and may I, together with Werner Kogler, bring you a few key points. First of all: As the Federal Government, we will do everything we can to relieve the people of our country. We have the objective of reducing the tax and tax rate towards 40 percent, reducing wage and income tax, but also setting up measures to support agriculture and the economy in Austria. We do all of this so that people can have work and live on their work, because that must be the goal in the Republic of Austria! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We will continue to reduce the debt ratio in our country, towards 60 percent, because debt is not only unsocial, but also not sustainable, they are always at the expense of the next generation. We will therefore pay attention to a balanced budgetary policy to further reduce the debt of the Republic of Austria. We will have a clear line on migration, with the aim of protecting the European Union's external borders as best as possible, fighting tow, ending the death in the Mediterranean and helping where we can really help, namely in the countries of origin. We shall therefore take measures to: Increase the security of our country, reduce illegal migration, while increasing the funds for development cooperation so that people who have to live in difficult regions of the world can be helped and we also meet our Christian-social responsibility. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We will continue to reform the education system by introducing a compulsory education rather than a compulsory education system. Instead of the mere nine-year-old sitting down, it takes a minimum of basic skills to read, write and calculate, so that every young person is really fit for the labour market, no one is left behind and everyone in Austria can bring their talents into the labour market after school. In addition, we strengthen schools and will take measures to support teachers as best as possible so that they can fully fulfil their educational role in this Republic, because only when we are successful in the field of education do we create a strong future for our country. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We will give everything to solve the care question by better supporting caring relatives – through day care facilities, by mobile care workers – and, of course, with the aim of finally ending the sad financing debate between the federal, state and local authorities. When we introduce a care insurance, we can make care stable in the long term and ensure that everyone in our country, no matter how much he has earned and in which industry he has worked, can be sure that he can age in dignity, regardless of what illness he has or how needy he is at age. We will also take measures to combat climate change. Without prescribing to the vice chancellor here: We will set up six ecological measures in the first year, but with a task force we will also ensure the preparation of an eco-social tax reform for the Republic of Austria. We do all of this because we need to bring economic, social and a respectful relationship with creation into line. Only in this way can we live up to the responsibility of the environment and the planet. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, there are numerous initiatives in the government programme: from digitisation to women's policy, from rural to measures to strengthen transparency in Austria. All of this content has a goal of giving the best in order to improve the lives of people in our country so that everyone in Austria can live a happy and happy life and ensure that our liberal democracy continues to be a model of success. Of course, everything we have done to implement can only succeed with a strong team. I am very pleased that together with Werner Kogler we were able to set up a good team in this Federal Government. First of all, I should like to introduce the members of the Government of the People's Party to this team and then ask Werner Kogler to present him to the representatives of the Government of the Greens. We have a total of six government members who will do their best to strengthen Austria's economic location, ensure that the people in our country have work, can be agreed upon as a job and family, and that the tax burden is reduced so that everyone can live from his work. Gernot Blümel will take over these tasks as Minister of Finance. He has already negotiated the budget as a government coordinator, but also the tax reform. As Minister of Finance, everything will be done to reduce taxes in our country and people will be able to live from their work. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Margarete Schramböck is our professional in the field of digitalization and economic location. It will ensure that the opportunities of digitisation are used in our country, that people can also perceive this possibility, that jobs are not lost, but that new ones are created and that the economic location of Austria is well developed in the future. – Thank you for coming back to the team! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Elisabeth Köstinger is our strong voice in rural areas. It will be there for agriculture, it will pay attention to the regions of Austria and, of course, it will also strengthen tourism in our country. It is important that we not only have strong urban areas in Austria, but also pay particular attention to rural areas where the majority of the population lives and which also live in the 21st century. ==References====External links== [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Chrissi Aschbacher will take on responsibility in the field of work, family and youth and will show that it is possible to unite family and profession as best as possible, but at times of digitization and at a time when the economy is falling apart in many parts of Europe, we will also take measures to ensure that we have low unemployment and that all people in our country can get involved in the labour market as far as possible. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Heinz Fässmann, our professional in the field of science and education, will continue his successful work to strengthen the educational and scientific location of Austria so that all young people can obtain a good education, everyone can bring in his talents and no child is left behind in our country. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Magnus Brunner, experts in the field of renewable energy, will contribute to infrastructure, energy and climate protection and will try to do everything possible to ensure that Austria is also committed to innovation in these areas and that we can be a strong international pioneer in the compatibility of environmental awareness and a strong economic location. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] As a People's Party, we have two members of the government in the field of security. I am pleased that Karl Nehammer takes responsibility for internal security. He has a military responsibility, was last active as security and integration spokesperson and is someone who has been working in the security field for many years. It will act with a hard hand and clear line, but at the same time always try to bring along the necessary sensitivity that it needs in this sensitive area. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] He will do this together with Claudia Tanner, who started her professional career in the Ministry of the Interior, but now – as the first woman at the top of this department – turns to the state defense, since I know your personality well, well equipped, as I believe, for this essential task for the security of Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I am pleased that I can work in the Federal Chancellery together with two ministers, who are both great lawyers and have a lot of experience – in the administration, but partly also in government work. I am pleased that Karo Edtstadler is returning to the Austrian Federal Government and takes on responsibility for the area of European Union, but also for the constitutional service – a very essential interface if we are to vote as a strong voice in Europe It's a good thing that we're going to have to do – Thank you for being on the team! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I am pleased that Susanne Raab, the former Section Chefin for Integration, has gained many years of experience in the field of integration, but also in the Ministry of the Interior, takes responsibility for the integration area, but also for women's agents in the Chancellor's Office. – Welcome to the team of the Federal Government! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We need not only to do good work in Austria and Europe, but of course Austria must also actively participate internationally. I am pleased that Alexander Schallenberg takes over the role as Foreign Minister, an experienced diplomat, a professional in his field. – Dear Alexander, thank you for the good cooperation and for the support in various functions in recent years. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] In total, together with the Greens, we as the People's Party have made up a strong team consisting of women and men, young people and more experienced and people from all regions of Austria. It is a team that is inspired by the will to serve the Republic of Austria and the people in our country daily. I would like to expressly thank Werner Kogler once again for having succeeded in finding a common basis in spite of ideological and worldly differences. It is easy to be sturgeon and to poach on red lines. It is much more difficult to make constructive efforts and compromises. But that is exactly what we have achieved together – with the aim of solving the problems of the present and at the same time building a good foundation for the future of our Republic, so that people in our country can live in security, each individual has the freedom to develop his talents, we have a strong social network when we need it, and, of course, we are respectfully treated with our environment. We will work for this, ladies and gentlemen. We give this promise to you, valued Austrians. – Thank you for your confidence.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e7087	I can thank the Chancellor for his statement and give the floor to Mr Vice-Chancellor. – Mr Vice-Chancellor, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e7132	Mr President. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV screens and via the various live stream services! Honourable Members! First of all, I should like to thank you: Thank you to the Bierlein government and its members! Thanks also to the negotiators of both parties! It was not just days, it was also nights in the winter palace. You've got a feeling why that's what it means: Winter palace. I also thank the Austrian people for the patience to wait for a new government to arrive. It was exactly 100 days when I read it correctly. That's what I'm talking about: I have read – I have not reckoned – the average age of this federal government is about 45 years. That is the latest German government that has been in place so far. [[Call the FPÖ: Great!]] I have just estimated, Mr Bundeskanzler, that you and I have made the same contribution to this average age because we are 12 and 13 years away from it. [[Cheerfulness and applause among Greens and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Krisper.]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] The sign question is easily answered. I can therefore change my speech because you have recently presented the members of the government of the ÖVP. I would also like to change it on current occasion and may first mention that I am very pleased that Leonore Geessler takes over the megaressort that many would like to see. [[call to the FPÖ.]] – I really have to read, thank you for the call, because it is really so mega, the climate protection resort, which has a very, very long name and is actually a dual ministry. I have interpreted the “five ministries” that have been poemd to us in the media in such a way that it means that it is almost a dual ministry, which works with a minister in the same economy: the Ministry of Climate Change, Environment, Energy, Mobility, Innovation and Technology. [[Abg. Kickl: For this, the Ministry of Social Affairs is only half!]] – I really would not have brought that together without further notice, you are right, dearly liberal. I would like to mention that Leonore Geessler brings very, very much for this function. Many know that she was the last managing director of Global 2000. I think it is unique in Europe to switch from a non-governmental organisation to the government bank. That makes us a little proud. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Krisper.]] What you may not know, however, is that it was also active in several institutions at European level, including at the Green European Foundation. Rudi Anschober, who has contributed even more than I have contributed to increasing the average age, is also the long-serving member of the government here; he has been a member of the state government for 16 years – of which 12 years in an upright coalition with the ÖVP – can thus also contribute to the regional perspective and support Elli Köstinger. [[Rejoicing with the Greens]] He has made a significant contribution to the fact that in the relevant rankings of the Upper Austria, where economy, social security and, above all, the environment – with all the opportunities for jobs and the economy – are at the top for a long, long time, almost equal to regions such as Baden-Württemberg – this is only used to orient. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Now he is with his broad knowledge and commitment – having that They all experience – responsible for social, health, care – that has already been mentioned – and consumer protection. Ulrike Lunacek is State Secretary at the Ministry of Art, Culture, Public Service and Sport. It is competent, experienced and recognised, far beyond Austria's borders. You may already have noticed that the emphasis on the European context is always important to me. I'm sure there's going to be a lot of success. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Last, but not least: Alma Zadić. It was long negotiations, but one of the most touching moments of the last days and weeks for me was that when I met the parents, father and mother of Zadić, when I was allowed to go fishing by the President of the Federal Republic and was told the story of Alma Zadić again briefly. You know, she came as a ten-year-old, fled the war of Bosnia, and grew up in favorites. I'll save you the further biography. I would like to join the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, who, in view of her training and her previous professional experience, asked: Who, if not Alma Zadić, should be qualified for the leadership of the Ministry of Justice? That is why there is a special welcome to Alma Zadić on the government bank. [[Prolonged applause with greens, ÖVP, SPÖ and NEOS as well as with the Abg. Bitch.]] I don't know if I can speak here for everyone – I probably won't always succeed; I'm going to come back to that – but it's important to me to find out what home country can be: Perhaps homeland is also the place where the hearts are large enough and the brains can think far enough to realize that what has been done is possible and meaningful. Accordingly, home love also means enabling this in a peaceful and respectful relationship, and so it is the attempt of the division of our homeland if this is to be impossible with hate campaigns. [[Congratulation with Greens, ÖVP and SPÖ]] I would like to thank all of you here on the Government Bank, including you as a Member of Parliament and all those who have participated outside the House to oppose it, for: Austria is not like that. Whoever loves his home doesn't split them. [[It was in favour of Greens, ÖVP and NEOS, as well as of SPÖ representatives.]] I can come to the European question and point out that, a few weeks ago, the colleague, and my particular colleague as a government coordinator, Gernot Blümel, pointed out to Francis Fukuyama, who came in 1992 “The End of History” on the occasion of a current European hour – at least he has written a book to which he has given this title. We have talked more often about the importance of Austria in Europe and about what Europe's image can be developed here – with certainty in common – and that this is certainly a pro-European government, but I would like to return to why this is so important in the present. It wasn't like the end of the story came. Fukuyama had stated that the rule of law would then stand above all and that the legal protection of citizens should be first and foremost in front of the state, but also the protection of the citizens. All of this is natural and, as it were, has something else to do with it in a logical timeline; a bit of Quasi-Hegel’s philosophy. [[Seeing in its documents]] However, it was different, and we Greens have stressed this very strongly – not when we were in the National Council, but in the election movement to the European Parliament here in Austria – that things that we have just appeared to be of course, essential foundations of Europe and many values that have also made Austria great, such as freedom, democracy, yes, human dignity and human rights, and, above all, the principle of the rule of law, were no longer guaranteed. Of course, not many of them have been – not directly in Austria, but again and again, movements have appeared, which have not been so successful at the last time, which have been nourished by old nationalism. New right-wing extremism has emerged, and yes, I do not want to hide that a terrorist threat has come about, often also from religiously motivated political extremism. It is therefore so important that we consider these values and at this point, if They want to have a defenceful democracy in mind, to strengthen it and to re-found it again and again. Especially in Austria this should be important in the background of our history, here we should always reflect on our relationship with false leaders and seductors. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP]] With regard to Austria and Europe: We can't be that small in order not to make a contribution here – especially with the tradition of history after the Second World War. Austria in particular can contribute to greater peace, trust and stability in Europe and in the world. This is also our task, and we want to make this contribution; you can rely on it. But Europe also means that we want and want to develop the Union. This is, of course, not quite so easy under different conditions. There are different ways and proposals. We would agree that, at least in the essential areas, the Union should be strengthened, that the principle of subsidiarity, which I think is rightly stressed, will play a stronger role. But we already have enough to do with looking at the fact that Europe, in order to be a player in the world itself, is strengthening on the essential issues, on the important points. This has something to do with environmental protection, it has something to do with climate protection, it has something to do with economic strength, but it also has to do with bringing forward the democracy and prosperity model of Europe, which is certainly still one of the best in the world, and that is where the contribution of Austria can only be highly appreciated. [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as SPÖ Members.]] In particular, there may be differences in the area of 0.1 percent of economic performance when we think about what the Austrian government's position in the budget negotiations is. I am just grasping this example out because it has always bothered me, as it is with the two worlds; they have been mentioned today. Now, the Austrian Federal Government, the previous government, has insisted on it and has introduced the negotiating position that Austria is negotiating with 1 percent of the economic performance as a contribution to the Union. We then – I personally at least – did not question this in great detail, so as not to change or avoid the position in half-way. On the other hand, I am very, very optimistic that, like most of the Union – not always, but in this case –, at the end, after difficult negotiations – yes, we know what forces there are, 27, 28 states, everywhere there are different majority, different political currents – a compromise comes out, and I think that in this case even the Austrian budget Commissioner will negotiate such a compromise and that it will be somewhere between 1 and 1.14 percent. By the way, it is only legitimate if more tasks are carried out at European level, that is why we in Austria should, of course, try to reduce expenditure to a similar extent – if that is the case. I'm not talking about these numbers at all, I'm talking about something else. I have chosen the example for another reason: because, of course, it is up-to-date and because, secondly, I am very concerned about these two worlds. I can essentially follow Chancellor's words in short, but one thing is still busy with me or us. In the absence of all knowledge and, so to speak, philosophical-theoretical definitions: In fact, there is only one world in which all people live, to whom we are also obliged, of course, those in Austria especially. But of course, what there is – and this is meant to be – is a number of perspectives on this world, in our case two, which are often very different, that has been carried out – world views, in the very sense of the word. Yes, it has been mentioned, the Austrian People's Party and the Greens, we can both count among the election winners, and we have then tried to achieve something together. What is available here, the Labour Convention, the Government Pact, if you want it, is, of course, the pact for a government and a government, but with two very different accesses and parties. Overall, the balance has to fit, and we'd found it so, otherwise we wouldn't have signed. That is why, I believe, it is also a good pact in the sense of the overall compromise, and in detail – yes, it is – the various parties have been more or less strong at different places, as you say. But it is not about persuasion or who has won or not now, but about doing something common, and we hope at least if someone has won that this will be the Austrian population at the end. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] We do this, too, considering the alternatives. Please do not take it here in the house that I say that, but it even finds in the Preamble an indication that we are trying to share this responsibility – it also says: “Out of responsibility for Austria” – to learn; jointly, because either parties whose strength is still not sufficient for majority education or here parties would be available for majority groups, but in which first the ability to accept this common challenge was questioned, because there was still a lot to be clarified within the party. That's why we're trying to get started and do our best. If we stay with Europe – in order to address the most important things in terms of content – it is true that we, as the Austrian Federal Government, want to move forward particularly within Europe in the field of economics and environmental protection. This also concerns, for example, the level of taxation. There are great similarities, and you will find in the Government Convention approaches that want to continue the tradition of Austria in this area, for example in the further fight for financial transaction tax. It has always had a special meaning in Austria, almost all the party borders. The fight against tax fraud is not just prominent here, but you can rely on us to fight honestly for it because, of course, it goes much further at European level. We also fully agree that Mercosur in the existing form – and this would probably still apply in the case of delicate modifications – is simply to be rejected. I also say to the fine-tuning among you that there is no side-by-side agreement on any changes in non-smoker protection and non-smoker protection. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] So no to Mercosur, but that's out of a higher insight: When you read the passages on trade agreements, you will realize that this is always about social and especially about environmental standards. The ÖVP has already raised very much the issue of climate protection duties in the election campaign. I consider the concept, if nothing else remains in Europe, to be correct and important and even groundbreaking. If we manage to achieve a great deal on climate protection in this continent – through many re-regulation measures also in the economic, financial and fiscal spheres – then we must not do so at the expense of competitiveness and thus of prosperity in Europe, in other words, we must be in conformity with world trade organisation, and this seems possible to us and we will promote it – we have done this for these climate change tariffs – so that Europe can continue to play its leading role in the field of climate protection, even more so than before. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Nevertheless, we have also measured the national scope, because of course we are primarily responsible for Austria and the population here – yes, of course, also the workers, the economy. That is why we have to look very closely at what the national areas of climate protection are, because at the end of the day we should not harm ourselves. There are, however, some possibilities, and it has already been mentioned – I am saying so because there have already been a lot of misunderstandings in this area in the public sector – that we want to make the move into the transition, especially on the conversion of the tax and tax system. Even at the first stage – probably with 1.1.2021, where it is also about redundancies of workers, employees, employees in the lower incomes – we should also succeed in bringing something forward in the passenger fleet. What's that supposed to mean? – Exhaust-free cars, low-gas cars are expected to be relatively cheaper and, if you want to, the big stinkers that consume a lot of diesel and emit according to CO2 are relatively expensive. The same is true in the case of flights, even there it is also intended to succeed in achieving that, for example, the dumping price calculations that exist in this sector are no longer permitted in this form, because this is also economically harmful, among other things to the AUA. On this occasion, however, there are, of course, large environmental steering effects. In future, we will try to make public transport much cheaper and also to expand the offer. So you see, it's all in balance. Thus, for example, the Pendler Pauschale will be already with 1.1.2021, so we hope, through the reform ecological and social. And that's how you could continue. Transit is to be reduced by various measures, including that in this first package. However, I am essentially referring to the second step of this ecological tax reform or CO2 pricing – and this “or” is exactly why we use a task force: because we want to find the best model in this regard. But you can be sure – read it!In the reading recommendation, I should like to make the point that it is absolutely essential to put emphasis on meaningful reading, for it is explicitly stated in the government programme: The second step is taken in 2022. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] As far as climate protection is concerned, I can only say more – Leonore Wiessler will still carry it out – that we are guided by the knowledge – so it is also inside, you know, this groundbreaking statement is only in no government programme in this world, I think – that we are here and now the first generation that already feels the effects of this threatening climate crisis, but probably the last one that can still do something about it. That is why we agreed that Austria will be a pioneer in the European Union and that it should therefore be climate-neutral in 2040. That's very, very brave, that's really ambitious, that's almost impossible. – Thank you very much. I know that the opposite is not always easy for everyone either. This is a big wheel we want to turn here, thanks for that. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Yes, and that is why the measures are ambitious. Of course, we will have to take care of the funding. It has already been mentioned that we are striving to achieve balanced budgets over the economic cycle, but these investments should also be secured exactly after this government agreement, as there should not be too many concerns. Otherwise, what is very important to me is what the Green Group, which the government as a whole is very important, for example in the field of security: The police are much closer to citizens with these chapters, but they are also strengthened and strengthened. This is in common interest. In the social field, we have the focus on care, but it is also about combating the need, one must say, of agricultural doctors with different measures. Furthermore, it is also happening throughout the social field – it is important to me to maintain this – to establish a new or resumption or, let us say so, to strengthen dialogue with the social partners. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] It was also mentioned that a focus is explicitly laid on social cohesion, the safeguarding of the social state and the fight against poverty, as already stated in the Preamble. Where do you find that? – About where it is about creating collective contractual opportunities for those for whom there is no equivalent yet. This is very much about minimum wages – especially women are affected by this – in various sectors. This has not yet been done in this form. Or think of the gap in maintenance law – that concerns the children, that concerns women –: We had many joint projects in the 2017 election campaign, now it is about to implement it with this Federal Government. – Thank you for this consensus. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] There will also be significant improvements in the budget for the Ministry of Women. This will help to finance a significant expansion of the places in the women's homes. In the field of education, we are considering, especially as regards pre-school, i.e. the small ones, the massive expansion of childcare places and support in the school. School social work is to be strengthened again, in particular with the corresponding support staff. The pilot project 100 schools is both an essential contribution to more equal opportunities and a contribution to integration. Speaking of integration – I read the program in this way, too: You probably would have translated it this way: Okay, actually integration or more integration before immigration! – As the programme has been set up, I think the second is certainly true in the area of asylum and migration, but there are very, very ambitious joint projects as far as integration is concerned. [[Deputies Belakovich and Hofer: What?]] As far as migration is concerned, this has been addressed: Fight fraud and, in particular, expand local aid – you will find it explicitly under the titles of bilateral humanitarian aid – and the foreign disaster fund will be expanded accordingly. [[Call the FPÖ: How much?]] As far as labour migration is concerned, there is a clearer commitment here. I hope that we can relax the debate at this point, because it is – at least so clever – for the benefit of several parties, that we do not crack against it from the point of view of the best idea and any ideological glares. This helps Austria, which helps those concerned who are looking for work, and that should be worth it to us. We also hope that in this way the discourse will change accordingly. One last thing: political culture. Yes, we want to bring on the greatest transparency package of the last decades. There are also enough occasions in this country, otherwise we would not have needed a new government at all. The Court of Auditors will receive massively more competence – in every respect, not only as regards the parties, but also as regards the close-to-state establishments. There he is allowed to check with those with more than 25 percent of the state share. This will have great effects on transparency in the post order et cetera. We know the occasions. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The offensive for freedom of information is already something you have been doing for a long time – there is still a certain Metternich’s tradition. Of course, we want to modernise this completely. I hope we can solve this together. We will not be able to decide everything alone – here and there we will seek a two-thirds majority and, as I hope, find it. I come to the very point: I or we here from the government bank are holding your hand against you, the honourable Member. It's a little new for the greens. I still have a statement by Andreas Khol in my ear – many have always said so, but of him I have this statement in my ear –: The location determines the position. However, we will still make great efforts in terms of cooperation and opportunities here in Parliament. With certainty, I have already mentioned it, there are some laws in which we will be very happy – and I hope that you will be able to go quickly, as in the transparency package. [[Abg. Kickl: Safe! That's what we're going to do!]] Finally take this as an offer with: We stretch out our hand, to a good cooperation here in the House! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e7366	I would like to thank Mr Vice-Chancellor for his statement. We are now going into the debate. Mrs Klubobfrau Rendi-Wagner has been reported to speak. I can give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e7394	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Dear Honourable Guests! Mr National Council President! Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! And of course: Ladies and gentlemen! I too would like to say thank you at the beginning of my speech: Thank you, Mrs. Federal Chancellor, except for the service of Bierlein, your Deputy Chancellor, Jabloner, and of course your expert government, for it was your willingness to enter into dialogue about eight months after a government crisis, that the lost trust between government and Parliament could be restored – without hecticism, with discretion, and always at the same time with Parliament. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens]] I thank you personally for this and most cordially, and I wish you all the best for your future, Mrs. Federal Chancellor out of service! [[It was in favour of SPÖ and Greens as well as of representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Today, almost four months after the election, we have a new federal government, which, to my delight, is made up of very many women and which, above all, has one thing: a majority in our Parliament, and that is good. This is good because the challenges that await us, the challenges that are already present, are large, huge – large in Austria, large in Europe and large in the world. This shows not least the sad current events in the Middle East, which also show the pictures from Australia. Mr Bundeskanzler, Mr Vice-Chancellor and honourable Members of the Federal Government, I wish you all much strength in dealing with your new task; it is an important task. For the coming years, I also wish you, above all, that you always deal respectfully with this responsibility for Austria and always with far-sightedness. And I wish I could from all of us here in the house, I wish myself from politics – not just to myself, but to myself – that we finally stand firm and determined against racism and sexism in non-serious society, in politics. This hatred and this human contempt are unacceptable. Mrs. Federal Minister, we are behind you. [[towards Federal Minister Zadić]] [[It was in favour of SPÖ and Greens as well as representatives of ÖVP and NEOS.]] Your government programme has been in place for a few days now, and our position is largely known: a black government program with turquoise tar color – or green tar color, apologies, a black government program with green tar color. [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Abg. Worm: Freud’s promise!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: It wasn't that wrong anyway!]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] It’s a black government program with green tar color or, as political commentators write, “with green color tumblers”. And it is true that it appears to have been continued and continued in this government programme over long distances and on essential questions, which was started under Black-Blue. The media in Austria also speak of a black and green experiment, they also speak of a venture, and we also see it this way: It is a risk of social compensation in Austria. I would also like to explain to you why we see this. If you look at your planned measures, you will soon become clear; it is a basic principle that is going through your programme, so to speak: People who earn a lot – and I am talking here about people who earn more than 1 million euros a year – will in future pay less taxes according to your programme than before. This also applies to large corporations, which also applies to large stock speculations. You, the Federal Government, are taking a lot of money into your hands for this; it is about EUR 2 billion that you are taking over for it – for that money is there. But the money is not there when it comes to having all children in Austria get the same amount of family bonus. Apparently, the money is not there either, when it comes to people who have worked hard for 45 years, who are allowed to retire without deductions. And there is also no word in your programme about how we will shape the minimum guarantee for the weakest in our society in the future, what the minimum security for the weakest will look like in the future. This is also not regulated in your government programme. Especially on this point, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, I wonder why you have not taken advantage of this opportunity to address the threatening, great problem of child poverty in Austria effectively and sustainablely and to combat it. Ladies and gentlemen in the Federal Government, the measures you are planning over the next five years do not contribute to a more social justice – no, on the contrary. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] The social sheath in Austria threatens to grow by your measures. This is not fair, it is not fair, and it is not the social compensation as we understand it from social democrats. This shows a sober analysis of your government program. There was legitimate hope during your negotiations, yes, there was hope also on our side that the path taken under Black and Blue will end under a new federal government in the future. These hopes were disappointed. But there are also measures that vote with confidence that are optimistic and that is to be said today. Especially with regard to the so important fight against the climate crisis, good ideas, good approaches are found, and this should be mentioned today. Granted, with regard to the practical implementation of these climate change measures, with regard to financing – you mentioned it, Mr Vice-Kanzler – from our point of view, many things are vague, many things are open, and there are many questions, but the will counts; and the will is so necessary in this area. If you turn on the TV these days and see the pictures from Australia, the breath is increasing: A continent is burning. These are pictures and facts that don't leave us all untouched, these are pictures that show us once again: We have no time to lose, the fight against the climate crisis does not allow any delay. Even though we here in Parliament are five parties: We do not live in five different worlds, we live in exactly one world – that is, to act quickly and together in this fight against the climate crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But one thing, ladies and gentlemen, we must not do this: lead this fight on the back of the weakest in our society and lose the social eye. With regard to the fight against the climate crisis, it is also important to mention something else: Austria will not be able to lead this fight alone, especially not successfully alone. To do this, we need Europe, we need the European Union, and it must be a strong European Union, an effective EU. To this end, the Union must continue to develop. The internal market alone will not be enough to have the capacity and strength to do so in the future. For this to happen, and I believe that this is what you are calling for in your programme, we need an effective foreign and security policy at European level. I don't dramatize the world situation, it's dramatic. The instability in the Middle East, which is increasingly on the rise, is a threat to the world, but it can also have a serious and dangerous impact on us and Europe. Therefore, a peace solution in the Middle East is the command of the hour, and what I would like to do in this context is that Europe and Austria have an active, strong role – and can – in this peace solution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The strengthening of Europe is important and it requires, above all, one thing: It calls for the strengthening of the social pillar at European level, because the differences that exist at present must at last reduce the social differences in Europe – the gap. Social inequality is dangerous – it has an explosive force – for our peaceful living together on our continent. That's exactly what we should know best. We have a story that has taught us this, namely European history. If we leave the path of democracy, this path leads straight to the conflict, straight to violence. This is not a question of discussing what is called an illicit interference in internal affairs, such as Hungary or Poland. It is about our future, our common future in Europe, when we demand from the Union – and I believe that I am on a line with you – that a gradual rejection at the European level is severely sanctioned. If I read the government programme properly, the government seems determined to do so. You would have our support for it anyway. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] All the more so, we need to look not only at Europe but also at developments in Austria that call into question our fundamental and freedom rights. Mr President, you said the following sentence four days ago at the time of the fishing of the new Federal Government: “Rot-white-red means to strengthen and respect fundamental and freedom rights.” – Mr President, we Socialists and Socialists are your supporters. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Weratschig.]] Dear Ladies and gentlemen, let's go back eight months, let's remember 27. May 2019. At that time, we faced ourselves here in the House – yes – with distrust. I would like to say to all of you today: Let's try to trust each other again! Yes, this programme that you have presented does not in many parts and in many parts correspond to our ideas, but no, that will not hinder us from a respectful cooperation at eye level. We will, of course, give all members of the Federal Government a fair opportunity for good cooperation and you, Federal Chancellor, if you wish, a second chance. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] A new federal government, a new legislative period, a new year – every new beginning is also a chance. Every new beginning is an opportunity for a new political climate; a new political climate in which one addresses and solves the challenges and does not face one another irreconcilably. It is an opportunity for a new beginning in the political debate – yes, hard in the matter, quite clear, but with an important goal: to strengthen our democracy and cohesion in our society. We take advantage of this opportunity of responsibility for Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e7523	Mr Klubobmann Wöginger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e7544	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! Especially, dear Austrians! At the beginning, I would like to congratulate all the members of the Federal Government very warmly on their functions and, of course, wish them all the best for this upcoming legislative period. As a clubman of the People's Party, I should also like to highlight one particular feature – one that has already been chosen by the majority of Parliament, but which has been clearly reintroduced by the population of Austria: It is a pleasure that the Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria is again called Sebastian Kurz, and we congratulate him very warmly. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, as well as by Mr Rössler and Mr Jakob Schwarz.]] However, I would also like to thank the Bierlein government for the work in the last half of the year, also for the good personal cooperation at the parliamentary level. We have felt this to be very good, and we thank all the members of the government under Chancellor Bierlein. – Thank you very much for that. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We have now probed and negotiated with the Greens for about two months. These are the two constituencies of the 29th century. September. We have, as it were, implemented what the Austrians expressed first and foremost on the election day, namely that these two parties should form a coalition together. We have 51 percent of each other, we represent 97 Members, which is a sufficient majority to be able to pass laws here in this House. However, there are two parties that have very different positions in the contents, so there have also been very exciting moments in the negotiations. However, at the same time we have negotiated intensively with each other, with mutual appreciation and respect, and that is why we have finally achieved a result. I would like to thank all the negotiators, especially my counterpart, Deputy Mayor Hebein, who is not here today because she has a different function. I think we have created a very good package for social, poverty reduction, health, family, women and youth, and I would also like to thank you very much from this point of view. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The government programme has 326 pages. This may also be due to the fact that we've been negotiating a little longer, but I can tell you one thing: It is a government programme with which the challenges of the future are well addressed, and yes, it is – Mr. Vice-Chancellor has mentioned this – from our point of view the best of both worlds. If that's what you want: Both parties are sufficiently reassembled in this programme, although in the ratio we have been elected, with 37 percent, the Greens with 14 percent, but the main points with which we have taken up this National Council election are again apparent to both parties in this programme. For us it is the continuation of tax relief, for us it is the maintenance of the hard line in the area of immigration and migration, and for us it is important that we do not continue to make new debts that we have a balanced budget, which we achieved for the first time in 2019 after over 60 years. [[We welcome the ÖVP and Mr Hamann and Mr Weratschnig.]] Of course, it is important for the Greens to be actively opposed to climate change, and more transparency and the poverty reduction chapter, especially with regard to children and women. I believe that these points – which are not the total part of the programme – are overall very good, and I would like to address some of them in detail. We continue the tax relief. We lower the lower levels of the income tax rate to 20, 30 and 40 percent. A voluntary employee participation will be introduced so that workers can also be paid up to EUR 3 000 for tax purposes. It is also an essential package of relief for the site, for the economic location and also for our farmers in the field of agriculture and forestry. It is an important signal that we give that the people in Austria who get up and work hard every day will be relieved in the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We're expanding the family bonus. Now you can have different opinions, but the family bonus is a success story. [[Call the ÖVP:Yes!]] If you are on the go talking to people who have children, you will find that this family bonus is accepted with joy. I am really happy and grateful that it has succeeded in raising the family bonus, both in the area of low-earners from 250 to 350 euros as well as in the area of tax relief from 1,500 to 1,750 euros. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a family and social policy measure in the 21st century. ==References====External links== [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] No new debt, no further balanced budget, the new Minister of Finance will take care of it. We know him, we know he's going to demand it with good hands. But this is also necessary for us to signal – that is how it is with our own homes or businesses – we cannot spend more than we take, and this government will guarantee it in the next few years. Dear Gernot Blümel, we wish you a happy hand! We will fully support you. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The fight against illegal migration will continue, including the protection of our EU external borders, but there will be an extension of local aid. This is a common concern for us, because we must help those people who have a worse standard at home, at the end of the day, too. I am also very grateful about the points in the field of education, about compulsory education with the introduction of a talent check, so that young people with 14 years old. Year of life can really read, write and count. This is the basic requirement for them to be integrated into the labour market at the end of the day. I am also glad and grateful that more support staff is included in the program for our teachers, because they have no easy task, and they are in schools every day and do their best to enable the education of our children to a good degree. – A warm thanks to our teachers. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] For example, where we found together quickly is the topic of care. The three main points are taken into account here, namely the sustainable safeguarding of the care system as a whole by the introduction of a care insurance in the field of social security, as a pooling of financial flows throughout the area; we have, so to speak, a confusion between flows from federal funding and national funding. We ensure a staff offensive for the nursing staff, for whom employees in the field of care in the future. What is particularly important to us are the caring relatives, according to the motto: at home in front of the stationary. We're introducing a care home bonus. We also extend pension insurance periods for caregivers. Why? – Because they have more than deserved that a federal government also takes into account when someone stays at home with caregivers and is dedicated to this valuable time, which is a very special value for us in society. - Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We introduce the pension division, the first ten years, so to speak, to the tenth year of the child's life, and it should then be possible, in total, over a extended period of time. There is, of course, also a comprehensive package of measures against climate change in the government programme. We stand on the task force for eco-social tax relief, which is a joint project, but this is not going from today to tomorrow. As an Innviertler, I say: It is important to us that the rural population is not played against the urban population, we have other conditions. In my 800-inhabitant community there is no subway and no tram, when I leave the apartment in Vienna, I have everything, whether I go to the right or to the left. It's best anyway, you stay in the middle, that's also politically noted. [[Abg. Scherak: Well, please...!]] At the end of the day, however, there are other conditions, and it is therefore necessary to focus on social balance in this task force, but we stand to do so and we will do something in this area too. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] There will be an urban billion, a regional transport billion to expand, especially in the field of public transport, and I would also like to mention the one-million roofer programme as an example to keep the green electricity in the foreground. We are also part of the transparency package in the area of expanding Court of Auditors' competence and in the information freedom law. This government programme, ladies and gentlemen, is a good basis for Austria to be able to go into a good future. It is a well thought-out programme that continues to relieve people, to keep Austria safe, to strengthen the location, to secure prosperity, and to resist climate change with home mind, but also decisively. It is a programme of responsibility for Austria. We are at the beginning of a new year, we are also at the beginning of a new coalition. We accept this mission of the Austrian population with humility, but with full elan. The Club of the Austrian People's Party stands at 100 percent for this programme, and we will do everything we can to implement these points step by step as agreed. The location may determine the position, which has been discussed in this House for decades. However, we oppose the opposition because we want there to be joint decision-making in this area. In this program, choose your points with 326 pages! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] It is – I am sure – something for all political groups. Our hand – from both sides – is stretched out. Take it so that we can make a good policy for the people of Austria in the future! I congratulate this Federal Government on its successful start-up with Chancellor Sebastian Kurz and Vice Chancellor Werner Kogler. We will take the challenges of time together and deal with them – in the sense and for the benefit of the Austrian population.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e7669	Klubobmann Kickl is reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e7690	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Federal Government! Dear Austrians! ‘Out of responsibility for Austria’ means: This is actually a beautiful motto that you have chosen as a title for this government programme. I can sign that, and it would really be exactly what is appropriate. This is what is necessary in view of the times that our beautiful Austria, our home country, faces, because we all know that there are not great challenges. Think of the economic downturn with the negative effects on the entire economic sector with the labour market and with the additional social burden! Do not think of the one thing, but rather of the many powder barrels in the environment and in the near area of the European Union, such as Turkey, which, by the way, does not appear with a word in your government programme or is excluded as a candidate for accession to the European Union! I'm just mentioning this next door. Of course, think also of a variety of negative consequences, of negative effects of decades-long ceasefire and dispute policy in the form of a red-black coalition! There's a lot in the arse. In addition, there is still a considerable need for repair, I say, in connection with ques tions of political misconceptions, which have been made by responsibilities – also from the ÖVP, which is now again a member of the Federal Government – for example in connection with the year 2015 and the so-called welcome policy. So there's a lot of challenges there. The problem is that your program is well called, but your own claim is not even sufficient; much more appearance than being – typically ÖVP – and this time the greens have also clung into this blending work. There, too, the incense that you have tried to spread here today in fullness and wealth cannot be fooled by the fact that You are far below this claim, which you have set yourself. I, ladies and gentlemen, and the Freedom Party see our task as the following: We will be the red-white-red stalk if you want to be in the flesh of this black-green Greta coalition. In this I see my task: to be the red and white-red stalk. You talked about it being a unique constellation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] Yeah, there's really some unique thing. I have never experienced this, that two parties do not actually rule together, but they rule alongside each other, and that at the beginning they have incorporated themselves into their coalition agreement an exit clause, for the times when it is hard then when the home country is at risk of becoming victims of another wave of immigration: Then say goodbye to your coalition responsibility, then you are responsible refugees, and the liberals are supposed to judge it. This is an interesting aspect, because otherwise the only kitt of this declaration of government is actually just an attempt to keep the liberals as the only political-patriotic force in this House away from government responsibility. That's the only kitt that holds you together. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So we have never had such an unstable structure, and I believe that Mr Kogler's long speech has been similar to another, more or less hopeless, attempt to continue the motivation work of the Federal Congress. [[Abg. Stögmüller:... super motivated!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ernst-Dziedzic.]] Even in his long speech, he forgot to mention the word sport only once as Minister of Sports. That's how it goes. Ladies and gentlemen! The real and true responsibility for Austria is to inform people about the burdening, which dangerous, yes, not to say what common ventures It is, of course, also a fight against these measures. This is a very, very important aspect. There I am, for example, in detangling your beautiful vocabulary. That is, I think, an important task. If you are talking about strengthening the European Union – and pretending to be something of special honor and honour – then you mean simply that you want to abolish the principle of unanimity and, in fact, issue a license for the European Union. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let's go to climate protection: The word climate occurs 243 times in your government program. Just to get an impression of the weighting: You will find “home” there all six times, each time only in any connection with immigration. There is nothing to be found of a positive home term in connection with the Austrian population. But: Climate protection and ecologisation is nothing but waste disposal – decasing in all dimensions. The climate sinews of this black-green Greta coalition are the drivers, those who have a diesel vehicle, those who still heat at home with oil or perhaps with wood and coal. There is a massive burden on you, and if you say you want to stop the tank tourism, then tell me the fuel prices will be increased! Ladies and gentlemen! I guarantee you, that each of us will feel, these are measurable results that this will produce – in the form of additional expenditure for the population. What you cannot measure is the contribution of all these measures to improve the global climate. – You won’t even find it in the first place, so you must be honest then, Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, the real and real responsibility for Austria and its people is to fight against the social, social and security misdevelopments which are increasingly common in this programme with all its political means. At the top, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany – now he has just left the hall – is the chief commander of the Austrian federal army. [[in the direction of Gallery]] It will not take long and it will be able to hold the permanent address at the final funeral of the state defense. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] – That’s how you have done it, ladies and gentlemen! We would have done the opposite if we had reassembled the German army in the interest of our own young men, all of whom are Austrians. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They take a course in which you talk about closed borders and border protection at the EU's external borders, but at the same time you operate a system where, of course, our social system continues to provide more incentives for immigration. That's how you won't be able to stop this system. There is enough money for the minimum protection of immigrants, but we do not have this money for the hacker board. You have to explain this to the Austrian population, which in my view is a discriminatory behaviour. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The name Anschober in the social resort is a symbol of this false policy. With no word in mind, your government's programme clearly rejects mass immigration, with no word of unmistakable rejection of any desire for the distribution of refugees across the European continent. In this clarity you can't find it. You will find somewhere without a substantial swirl, which can be summarized in such a way that you can really make the bubbling before the European Union again. They facilitate the conditions for the immigration of foreigners into the Austrian labour market, thereby fueling a system of displacement competition and wage dumping. Werner Kogler has shot the bird when he explained how the deportations will happen in the future in Austria. He said: Well, rightful judgment back or forth, it doesn't matter if there's a part of the population somewhere and some scream loud enough, then of course it won't be postponed! – After good night Austria!, you can only say in the legal version of our new vice chancellor. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'll tell you something more. Important: Of course, we will also fight with all our power to restrict freedom of expression in Austria in 2020, to restrict freedom of the press and to restrict freedom of association and assembly, and to install a black and green metric. [[Abg. Stögmüller: That's what the right ones say!]] [[Call the NEOS:Kickl decree!]] This is also an essential part of your government programme. In a word, I would like to say that your announcements relating to measures against so-called hate crime and to the fight against disinformation are nothing more than such restrictions. [[Abg. Stögmüller: That's what the right one says!]] They create a few rubber paragraphs to persecute people who cannot be accused of being real patriots in Austria. It won't play with us in metering! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They produce their own form of climate change in their own country – and this is also strange – which is a negative change in the political climate in dealing with dissidents. The same applies to your fight against right vulgo right-wing extrem. Throwing it You've been in a pot all the time. Who would have thought this, ladies and gentlemen, that a supposed mid-rightly conservative party – so you always define yourself – is the documentation archive of Austrian resistance, which can be called a Communist Tarn Organisation, so that it is commissioned to organize the supervision of persons to whom one can blame nothing other than love of the country? [[Contradict with the Greens]] [[Abg. Soundmeiner: He's got a beard like that!]] [[Abg. Kassinger: But you are sensitive!]] Who would have thought that? If that's not a left-wing truck, I don't remember, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e7862	Mr. Klubobmann, take back “communist tar organization”!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e7902	I don't take it back, because there's a court judgment that allows it.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e7954	Then I'll give you a call for order.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e7990	Taking on real and honest responsibility for Austria is another important component, namely to inform the dangerous power of the ÖVP in the very delicate sub-areas of this Republic for the coming period of government. We will look at your fingers very massively and, if necessary, we will also knock on your fingers. The Greta coalition has managed to make the entire security device of the Republic of Austria a branch of the ÖVP Lower Austria. This is the outcome of the security negotiations. I can tell you that those ropes and networks that we have just begun in the course of the BAT study committee can continue to reveal all of this to their beings, as they have done for 17 years, with all the negative consequences for our beautiful home country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is support for a state in the state. Mr President of the Federal Republic – now you are back, I am here with you too – I am telling you: It's a piece of art to sit down and say: Power must be controlled! – here I am with you – and then at the same time to give its Sanctus that the ÖVP will receive an unprecedented wealth of power in this so sensitive area. You must justify this in front of your conscience, President! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It may surprise you that I also have some positive to say. Perhaps it's a pleasure. You're happy about it, but maybe you're happy. You are no longer, then, when I tell you that what I find on positive content in the government programme is essentially what one can define as a free policy, as a liberal content of the last government programme. That's loud plagiarism – but it's supposed to be that way, no problem. I am pleased that, for example, the tax relief of incomes in this government programme can be found. We would have done that. What we would not have done, however, is to bring in a new CO2 tax immediately in return. There you can see what your government means: This is not a government with each other, but a government next to each other. One wants to relieve the others, and one under the line does not get anything done in this constellation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, freedom of movement, you or rather, should you be said, of course, you are also announcing in the field of security. That's where you announce a lot, but there's never been a lack of announcements. The problem of the EIA, also in our government constellation, has always been to get into the implementation mode. Sometimes you've had a biterl feeling that if you're working on implementations, you want to make it so complicated and bureaucratic that it's best to get a dead birth out. I've had to experience this a few times in the security field myself. There was in truth a different word for preventing it from being implemented. I am excited how this should work with all these things if there is no driver of the Freedom Party in this context – not in the government, here already! My goodness, what was that theater, what was it like a gale, and what was it like when, in order to improve the protection of the domestic population from dangerous asylum seekers, I launched the project of security? [[Abg. Scherak: Right!]] What was there for a world downfall here in the House? What was there for a hysteria everywhere – in the ritualized demonstration trains, in the NGOs and, of course, in the media bubbles? Skill You remember, Mrs Zadić, Mrs. Zadić? Skill You remember this hysteria? - You were with me. There you are sitting behind, side by side with Peter Pilz. [[significant to the last series of banks]] They were one of the greatest hysterics in this context. I'll tell you one thing: Now I'm glad for you that you have the pleasure of implementing exactly this safeguard warrant. This is what I call equalizing justice. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call to the FPÖ: She always wanted that!]] You see, looking in the green sector, happy faces. You can hardly grasp your happiness and joy. That's where the cardiac jumps higher. You will not only get the security arrest – with our support as well – but you will also bring the surveillance state on the way in the form of the so-called monitoring of the WhatsApp communication. [[Abg. Ernst-Dziedzic: You must know the VfGH judgment, right?]] You, Mrs. Justice Minister, are now implementing the defunct Federal Trojan, the defunct surveillance state. I'm glad for you, I have to tell you quite honestly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Because it's just so beautiful and so the joy is complete, you'll also get what I've set out as an exit center, in the form of return centers with in the package. I think that this is a positive development. You will have to put this spatula in some form if you confess to the government package and not do what some of you, ladies and gentlemen of the green sector, have already announced, namely to tear it. We are so consistent to say that there is, of course, freedom of support for these things. We do not change our positions, but we will take great care to ensure that these things have hands and feet, that they are practical, that they can come to implementation – and that you do not produce the next lame ÖVP duck, such as in the form of the Islam Law, where you are still allowed to celebrate that you cannot even lock a single mosque for 24 hours. This is also not a recommendation for the new Minister for Integration. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps a final word about it – it is sometimes quite glaring when you look at it – what is missing in this government programme; Mr President, this may be very interesting for you: I didn't find anything about interceptors. Perhaps the Federal Government is creating a few drones to produce airspace safety in Austria, at least in the past there have been such considerations on the ÖVP side. [[Call the FPÖ:Great drones!]] It is a joke and a scandal for a rich country like Austria, so negligently dealing with the defense of the country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] Direct democracy desperately sought! – That’s a miracle at all. I have desperately sought them in a binding form. That surprises me! Mr Kurz, you have said in the 2017 election campaign that this is a very important instrument for self-determination and participation of the population, and as far as the Greens are concerned, one would like to think that a party that understands itself as a party to the citizens' initiatives is pushing this project forward accordingly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn]] One is hardly in the government, but rather the attitude: Yes, please, where are we going if our own people also want to have a political say outside of elections?- Oh, my God! - That's why it's turned off from you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And you're also looking for the ORF fees that we've actually agreed on in the negotiations, and you're looking for them in vain; [[towards Bundeskanzler Kurz]] So you may continue to pay for an increasingly poorer program probably more and more ORF fees. The television consumers are annoyed by the red, black and green beans on the Küniglberg. – This is also a form of new governance and a new style.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e8114	Please take back the term “bonds. ”
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e8144	No, I'm not taking that back. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I gather: This government project is not, as you have described, the best of all possible government constellations, nor is it a particularly forward-looking model, but I think it is a bad and lazy compromise, which entails very, very many dangers over long distances: Dangers to our security, dangers to our prosperity and fairness in our society, dangers to our home country and our identity and, of course, dangers to freedom. This should not be forgotten because you are always a special protection pattern of democracy, rule of law and freedom of expression, but this is obviously only true of your ideological view of things. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, for all these reasons – that you have now set things up that were once unthinkable with the Greens – it is likely that the “New York Times” will have been so for you, Mr. Federal Chancellor Kurz, who has influenced little flattering concept of the political chameleon.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e8176	Please come to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e8191	Therefore, with our hardest resistance, we will not allow the Austrian population to become a victim of your irresponsible experiments! And find yourself thinking that opposition is not a sluggish thing, but that opposition has to be an essential part of the democratic structure we are all proud of!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e8219	The word is Klubobfrau Maurer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e8240	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Mr President. Madam President. Dear Members of this new Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators in front of the screens! I am very pleased to be able to speak as a clubwoman today, on this historic day, on which a green vice chancellor has for the first time made a statement of government in Austria. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] We have taken part in this election campaign for clean environment, clean policies and social justice – and we have delivered. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Today, we are adopting a Federal Ministry Act, which contains the largest, the most comprehensive environment and climate protection resort ever in this Republic, and we occupy it from the Greens with Leonore Wiessler and thus with a woman who was not a professional politician at all until a few months ago, but managing director of an environmental NGO. We have included in the government programme a climate change programme that is unique in Europe and that will make Austria a pioneer country on environmental issues. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Clean policy: With Alma Zadić, we are a highly competent Minister of Justice, who has reached very hard negotiations in recent weeks, that in this government programme there is a very comprehensive package of transparency on party funding, which will greatly improve the understanding of an information freedom law, which will also eliminate the secret of office, provided that we find a two-thirds majority in favour of what I hope for and which will also strengthen the Court of Auditors. Social justice: With Rudi Anschober, we are setting up a Social Minister, who was a pioneer once, in a black and green coalition in Upper Austria – a model that is now quite successful in four different federal states. Also now he will be a pioneer again, in the first green government participation at the federal level. He will take care that many things go better in the area of poverty reduction, care, health issues. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In addition, we have a State Secretary for Art and Culture, who is washed with many waters and is a fighting feminist and human rightsist, Ulrike Lunacek, who will also bring her European perspective into government work. All of this is done under Vice President Werner Kogler, and I am very glad that this has been done. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am also very pleased that this government belongs to more women than men, and that today there are also more women than men among club members. Something is moving in this country. I think that's good. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Loacker: Great quota!]] For this government cooperation, many words have already been found: a “carriage ” has been called here, an“ experiment, ” a purpose alliance. – This government participation is the political consequence of the election outcome. We Greens face our responsibilities and a completely new task. It might have been the easier way to say that we are not putting ourselves at risk of going to a government as a small party with such a different partner as the ÖVP, but we have not been elected to make it easy for us. We have been elected and we have taken action to stop the climate crisis in order to pull the row around in the remaining ten years to make our contribution to the salvation of the planet. And we don't press, we take this responsibility. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the last few weeks, we have negotiated intensively in the winter palace, in days and nights. At this point I would like to return my thanks in connection with these negotiations: They were very intense, they were sometimes also very hard – you didn't know in certain places whether it was going on at all the next day – but we did it. The negotiations were close to the eye and in respect for each other and, I think, have created a good basis for cooperation in this government. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It will make a difference – a big difference! – that we are in this government and not the Freedom Party: Instead of corruption scandals with the blues, there will now be anti-corruption with the greens, instead of post-checkers for people with extremely questionable qualifications, we will occupy objective criteria, instead of witches against certain population groups, there will be an invitation from us to dialogue, and instead of speed 140 we strive for climate neutrality by 2040. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Reisinger]] [[Abg. Kickl: From the ÖVP financial office to the financial office!]] All these are very big differences and clearly an improvement for this country. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Yes, there is also criticism of this government programme. It's right: The green manuscript is not as clear in all chapters as in climate protection, transparency or education, and I can well understand that NGOs, civil society or even here in the house are criticizing NEOS in some areas. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger:... disappointed!]] It is clear that we Greens have been able to achieve little in the area of asylum and migration; the language in which these passages are formulated is not ours, the positions described there are not ours. We also know – and this must be painfully aware of the NEOS – that we in this House will always remain in the minority with our approaches to these issues, as well as at European level. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: So let's give it up!]] These are the conditions we need to take note of. We also know what this chapter would have looked like, would be the FPÖ in this place and again part of that government. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: That's the way it is!]] This shows the comments that speak of the left-wing invaders et cetera. I think it is very clear that, in connection with this chapter, it is also better that the Greens and not the FPÖ are part of this government. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Criticism, which I can less clearly understand, is that of the SPÖ, Mrs Rendi-Wagner! The Greens are 14 percent in this coalition, the ÖVP has more than two and a half votes. Yes, we are the junior partner, a much smaller junior partner than it was the SPÖ in many years, and I find it somewhat unbelievable when we are told that, for example, we cannot do things that the SPÖ could not do with a red chancellor and a red minister of education. Even when it comes to redistribution: I would like to point out that the asset tax has been abolished by a red finance minister. We have done everything we can, and will do everything, Rudi Anschhober will do everything we can to continue in the social field. So, unfortunately, I cannot let this criticism apply. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The Green Club and the Green Party have a great transformation, a great transformation process ahead: from an opposition to a government party. The Greens, who moved in more than 30 years ago, very activistic, directly from the Auquis, who over many years have developed their reputation as a competent and acrybic opposition and control group, the Greens, who have missed their entry into the National Council a little over two years ago, and have returned to the extra-parliamentary opposition and, in some way, to the streets, have returned and are now entering a completely new phase of their movement, namely the first partly green-occupied Federal Government. Each of these phases was important for the green identity. We know what it is like to work on the street in protests for concerns that often only a few people love. We know what it is to resist the destruction of nature. We know and we appreciate how many people volunteer in their free time with civil society organisations, and we also know how annoyed it is when Members sometimes do not even bother to listen to the concerns of civil society. We Greens are a Alliance Party and, of course, we will continue to actively engage in the intensive dialogue and cooperation with NGOs and civil society. Our hand is stretched out. We Greens also know what it means to do opposition work, how annoyed it is to receive insufficient answers to questions, how superficial committee debates often happen. We have always pleaded for a lively parliamentaryism, for an intensive debate between the political groups. I promise our greatest effort to have a good dialogue, a good cooperation and the active involvement of all political groups in the House, because one of the green values is basic democracy. We are used to discussing long and intensively. The EIA has now also noticed in the negotiations that we are ticking differently. It was also well observed at the last Federal Congress: The Greens are a discursive party. Disputes of opinion and differences of views are not a problem, civilized negotiation is the key task in a democracy. At this point I would also like to make an appeal to the journalists present on the gallery, namely not to discredit every political debate and debate as a dispute. Today is a historic day for us. I also believe that there is a small turn in Austria, a change in the political climate, and I am sure that this government participation will change the country to the positive – for single parents, for mothers and fathers, for kindergarten development, for people who deserve little, for women, for teachers, for individuals, for people with disabilities, for nature, for the environment; my colleagues will today quote further points from the government programme. I wish that we Members of this House would succeed in working critically, but objectively and constructively with each other over the next five years. I will contribute to this. I wish all the members of the government, especially Chancellors Kurz and Deputy Chancellor Werner Kogler, all the best for the forthcoming work. May the challenge be met! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e8408	The next item is the speech by Mr Jörg Leichtfried. - Please. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: (on the way to the speaker's desk) That can't be!]] – Unfortunately that appears on my display, but I correct it. You are speaking, Mrs. Club Chairman. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e8444	Madam President. Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Dear Honorable Personalities at the Spectator's Gallery! Values Members of the Federal Government! Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Values of Austrians who are watching here today! I would like to begin by expressing my thanks to Federal Chancellor aside from Brigitte Bierlein and the expert/expert, transitional government – whatever; there were various titles that led this government, I think that the Federal Government would have done it too. Thank you very much! It is always a great service to our country, to the population, to assume such a responsibility and to master it so sovereignly and solidly in such moving times. Thank you. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] You may be surprised now that as head of an opposition party, I say that I am glad that this federal government was praised today. I am actually glad because I believe that our country is facing so great challenges that we cannot allow ourselves to continue in this standstill, because de facto – as well as being managed in recent months – has been in Austria since May. There are quite, very big challenges in many areas, issues of the future, which are solved, and that is why I really wish this Federal Government all the best. There are many areas in which it is important to tackle. It is positive – I agree – that FPÖ is not part of this government. I'm very glad, too. Whether this is the only thing on which cooperation can be built? – I dare to doubt that this is enough, I already want to say, but what we have seen during the blue government participation in non-service in our country already shows that it is much better that the FPÖ no longer sit in the levers of power. – Mr Klubobmann Kickl, you have said that you are now the only patriotic force in this House, so in view of what you have promised our country, our population by your government participation, and the idea that has been delivered by your political actors, given how you really damaged our reputation abroad, I certainly do not agree with you as a group of Patriotism, Mr Kickl! [[Members of the House and smoke: that's right, too!]] [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and Greens.]] “Out of responsibility for Austria”, I would like to add two V-words: Trust and reliability. In these areas I would like to ask for more, because, as has already been stressed, the government programme – and we should actually talk about it today – has remained very vague in many areas of the programme that you plan for the next few years. Trust and reliability, I believe, are very important, because there are so many topics. But I want to start with the positive: Of course, after a year like 2019, it is great that climate neutrality is set as a goal by 2040 – of course, it has to be met with life – and that has also been determined. We think it is very good that – and it is funny that I can say that already – the old NEOS demand after the middle maturity in this program has been implemented. I like that. At a time of low interest rate policy, which we see as very critical of NEOS, in which people, especially young people, can hardly build up anything, are largely expropriated, about the need to build up ownership and promote ownership and the need to strengthen the capital market and finance. We like the fact that the Greens didn't get through, because in the election campaign I heard quite different sounds. I think it is good that there is a ministry of integration, even if, of course, this has to be much more than a door sign. I think it is excellent that a new attempt is being made to finally abolish the secret of office and to launch an information freedom law. This is the long-term demand of NEOS, because it was the very first request we made to NEOS in this House. Of course, we would like NEOS if there is a commitment to further discharge of taxpayers, and I would like to call into question “further” because the tax rate, Mr Bundeskanzler, has risen under the last German government, has not fallen! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] So if a correction of this course is made, I am very pleased, even if, of course, we would have provided more sustainability through the immediate abolition of cold progression. I have said that from our side there is this 100 days already – as you always say – but I would like to quote it a little different: I would actually call it a post-term, because you have a bit of a feeling that you haven't gotten done with a lot of things. The programme is very extensive, but it can be very much inflated, and I do not think that it is sufficiently concrete on many essential questions. Therefore, I would say that there is a 100-day post-term with the following request: In some areas we need concreteizations. As it is indeed vague, it is inconspicuous, there are statements of intent inside that belong to life filled with life. In some areas, we believe that it is necessary to add to the educational chapter, for example, because the middle maturity and the further expansion of child care – what we find good – will become alone if you do not otherwise take more progressive paths, the slogan you are now using: No child left behind!, don't be fair. There is another area in which we wish to add to it, and I am pleased that it has now been announced, namely a point which is not included in the government programme, to reject this inconvenient decision to reintroduce the hacker regime. We have NEOS as the only one – and I really want to say that here: as the only one! – also acting responsibly before the election and as the only one not to take this decision. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] In the whole area of generation fairness – the strong generation contract that made Austria strong – I miss a lot of things, because I really want additions. I have read, Mr Bundeskanzler, you yourself have several times, for example in an interview in 2014, on the question: Is our pension system safe?, said: “The pension system is really safe when we reform it. We have a growing life expectancy, at the same time we go earlier in retirement than 1971.” – I could quote you now. I am missing quite a lot in the area of generation fairness, with regard to the question of fairness to the boys and the question of a strong generation agreement between old and young in the future. In your government program, truths will not only be silent, they will be demented, and I think that is very, very bad. The third point that we expect in addition to concreteisation and supplementation is the area of financing, because there is a lot inside it. We have our doubts, however, that I tell you quite openly how this should all happen if it is not provided with funding. We have read this very carefully and are not alone with these doubts, one hears what failed people say when we are in this Republic: The funding needs it because everything else built on drift sand is air locks – and that it will, we cannot afford to do so. Yes, and there are areas where we are disappointed, I say quite openly. I think Niki Scherak, who is among us one of the many advocates of fundamental and freedom rights, will report on how disappointed we are that the Greens have not drawn red lines on the subject of security, on the subject of federaltrojans or on other areas. I have to say one thing: Mr Kogler, you referred to Fukuyama and the need to refer to the liberal foundations of democracy, such as freedom, fundamental rights, civil rights. – I think that’s great, but if you look at your program, you can see that the words are protection and protection 352 times, but the word freedom is only 26 times, “security” occurs 176 times, but “democracy” only 20 times. By the way, I'm right about Klubobmann Kickl: The fact that direct democracy is not mentioned with any single word is actually remarkable. They obviously do not want to strengthen citizens in this country, but rather to maintain power. That's not the way we'd go NEOS either. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We will accompany this government, as we have done in the past, with constructive hardness – always constructively when it comes to finding together the best solutions for a good future, as we can bring Austria forward to the benefit of the Austrians, the population, but also with hardness when it comes to essential values. I am not pleased that we now have a unique feature as the party that upholds freedom, fundamental and freedom rights and civil rights, but in the future we definitely have a strong role to play in terms of freedom, also in terms of control and fairness and opportunities for children. [[Abg. Worm: Freedom..., Mrs. Colleague!]] You said you were stretching your hand – I'm glad. The relationship between government and Parliament must be improved, that was not a good thing. But I'm telling you: The culture of cooperation and the culture of cooperation and trusting relations between themselves is strongly influenced by the government and not by the opposition, because the question of whether you want to involve us or not, you decide primarily. Therefore, we have full understanding of the appeal you have made to us regarding constructiveness, but a small comment: Not every material criticism of the opposition is Majesty's policy. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e8534	Now you are speaking, Mr Jörg Leichtfried. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e8555	Madam President. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Dear ladies and gentlemen, watching today! 100 days of negotiations and we are discussing the outcome of these negotiations today. It has, openly, given great expectations that these injustices of the black and blue government will not continue. Mr Kickl, you have previously noted how the greens are now sitting – yes, two years ago you are so excited to eat and now you look quite sad in your ranks, you have to say that already! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Against you I am... cheerful!]] The expectations were high: End of the disregard for parliamentarianism, end of the erodement of the rule of law, end of the conscious attack on democracy, yes, and also the chance of more climate justice, to more fight against the climate crisis. If one now looks at the outcome of the negotiations, at least I personally feel that: It governs Mr. Kurz with himself and with his friends and companions, and it is actually going to continue the way of black and blue in many areas – I even give Mr. Kickl right. [[Abg. Kickl: Go!]] [[Abg. Worm: The second time now!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] I ask you, if we talk about justice: Is it just that now apparently immediately – Mr. Klubobmann Wöginger said that very plausibly also in the “Kronen Zeitung”: Now we're on it! – the corporate tax is reduced? Is it just that stock speculations are getting cheaper? Is it fair that the peak tax rate will not continue? Is it fair that more than 2 billion euros of basket money for the super-rich, for those who make their money work, and not for those who have to work hard for their money, are included in the government's programme, ladies and gentlemen? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What about those who have to work hard for their money? What about someone who started working at a cement factory 45 years ago, who first had to drag the 50-kilometer cement bags and now can't drag the 25-kilometer cement bags and who can finally retire with the hacker board? [[Abg. Gödl: Heavy worker regulation!]] Is it just that you're thinking about taking the hacker board now? – No, that is completely unfair, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Sozialminister, I appeal to you: Do your best so that the people who had to drag cement bags for 45 years can retire! This is probably the minimum for these people, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I don't just want to practice criticism, no, on the contrary: I think there are also things in this programme that we will certainly support. Transport policy: Mrs Bundesminister, warm congratulations on the things you have brought in. We ourselves were also those who meant we need an Austrian-wide ticket. Yeah, we were for the transport billions, too. These are good projects, we will support you. What I already lack is on the other hand measures in the field of freight transport. Why not, at last, a truck toll to contribute to counter-financing? This counter-financing for the transport projects you have envisaged will be very much needed. Now 2 billion euros are missing due to the gifts to the super-rich. Mr Wöginger said clearly in his speech that you want to stick to the black zero. That's what I'm asking myself: Where does the money come from? Where does the money come from if the switching levers for financing are left alone with the ÖVP? – One has to say openly: To date, the ÖVP has never shown any interest in sustainable public transport. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ottenschlager.]] [[Federal Minister Köstinger: Na servas!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] The ÖVP has never been interested in shifting from road to rail, and the ÖVP has also shown no interest in the fight against the climate crisis. We want to help you there, we want to strengthen you, and we hope you will prevail against the ÖVP in these questions, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It is not true that only the financial power is embroiled with the ÖVP. There has been a second great hope, and this is about the fundamental and freedom rights in Austria, which were massively attacked by black and blue. Now it has happened – the first time in the Second Republic – that all the security ministries, all ministries that have united forces and police among themselves are concentrated together with the Federal Chancellor's office at a party. Ladies and gentlemen, I am missing the important system of checks and balances in a functioning democracy. It was a mistake you made. It is not good for the democratic development of our country to unite so much armed power in one hand, ladies and gentlemen. We think that's bad. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wöger: For God's sake!]] We think it is particularly bad – don't rain down, I'm also very objective today, we're going to be honest! –, because suddenly something appears again, and that, I must tell you, probably I was most disappointed by this federal government: the zombie idea of Herbert Kickl – he mentioned it himself – from the arbitrary. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Woeinger]] [[Call the ÖVP:Sacred!]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] We don't need that in our country! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] We have arrests for people who are suspected of being arrested. [[Abg. Kickl: The Doskozil knows better than you do!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] We have punishment for people who have broken something and have been sentenced. We have the push for people who are being pushed off. This arbitrarily would be a prison for innocent people, against whom there is no suspicion, and such a thing is totally unacceptable in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] Yes, you have disappointed some people with this program, but in the sense of the new spirit, which has been addressed several times, we stretch out our hands to work with you as a critical, constructive opposition. This means, of course, cooperation, which is wanted by both sides. That is what we are offering, because I believe that this is also a matter of urgency for our country to overcome this division that the Vice-Cancellor has addressed. I have to say: What we have experienced in the last few days I have seen as loathsome, these hates against the new Minister of Justice, these threats, this violence that has been threatened. A journalist, Mrs Olivera Stajić, has shown very well on Twitter where the real problem lies: Mrs. Zadić has not been threatened and criticized for her policy, Mrs. Zadić has been criticized for her name, for her origin and for her alleged religion. And that – we have to take care of it together – does not have a millimeter place in our country, ladies and gentlemen valued!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e8788	The next item is Mrs Gabriela Schwarz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e8812	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Especially: dear Austrians! I would like to add to what Mr Leichtfried said: Yeah, that's not the point! It is not, however, left-wing extremism, right-wing extremism and Islamism either. I really condemn the attacks against our Minister of Justice Alma Zadić. I also condemn the comparison of our Federal Chancellor with Hitler. I can't! My appeal to all: Leave that alone! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Now to the government programme and its creation: I do not know how you, dear Austrians, manage at home, in business, in school, when it comes to designing, developing and adding common goals. There, positions are expressed, there is discussion – more or less fierce, more or less long. We've experienced all of this. In the end, however, the goal is that everyone involved can live well with the result with the solution. This path is best done with a clear head, with a straight back and with an open heart. I think that has been done by both the new People's Party and the Greens in this process. We have taken this path together, we have put the joint before the end of the separation. We know how different ideas can be and how important it is to let each one get a common result without having to bend. I was asked by a journalist if I ever felt like they could be upset during the negotiations. I didn't have that right where I was negotiating in the field of health and care. This was a meeting with the greatest appreciation and with tolerance. I think that in the government programme we can be extremely satisfied with the results in this area. What amazes me again and again: Hardly is the government program with its 326 pages on the table, once reflective of what this stuff holds. This destructiveness is indispensable. There's a discussion about what's bad, and who's who's why when you pulled over the table. Take a look at what we have done and what we will succeed together in the next five years! I thought that was much more meaningful. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Believe me, I find it particularly amazing when these calls and calles come out of the ranks of those who have enough of their own construction sites to care for, and who desperately look for a hair in the soup, where no one is at all; but I already understand: Distraction maneuvers are always easier than dealing with their own problems. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Loacker: You can't expect everyone to praise you now, Gaby!]] I read a column from Guido Tartarotti a few days ago, which describes very precisely what we have done together. There it says to the debate culture in Austria that another opinion in us was “as the third term, not as an extension of the spectrum of thoughts”. “In this respect, the new government is an equally exciting and unheard-of project: The attempt to get good results from two completely different worlds of thought with the means of reason and serenity. The excited, angry reactions in the social media raise the question: Is such a thing [...] allowed at all?” – I say: It is not only permitted, but it is the best way for Austria to take on responsibility and allow Austrians an even better life. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This government is a novum. It is pioneering work that is being done here. It is the first time and unique in Europe that Christian Democrats and Greens together form a federal government. The media echo on this collaboration is enormous and quite positive. It would really help to communicate to people outside what we want, namely to work together, instead of fighting. That's why I appeal to everyone and hope that this appeal does not go unheard: I wish myself less outrage and more empathy, I wish myself less rage and more respect, less rushing and more listening, less anger and more appreciation. [[It was in favour of ÖVP and Greens, as well as of SPÖ representatives.]] We as the New People's Party, together with the Greens, are going this way, because I think it's better, we're among the better people than those who know better.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e8879	The next item is Mrs Dagmar Belakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e8900	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear Austrians, dear Austrians! What we have here today is actually a discussion about the new government programme, but what we have already experienced here today was, as it were, the beginning of this green-black, black-green Metternich’s surveillance state. If the President of this House gives Klubobmann Kickl a call for order, for him to quote from a court judgment, then the question is also whether this President is not a bit overwhelmed with the situation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] ==References====External links== In May 1998, a judgment in the name of the people, according to which the DÖW can in truth be referred to as “privatestasi” and “communist terrorist organisation”; in addition, the DÖW revitalises a “family terrorist campaign against the alleged “environment” of right-wing extremism, creating “a climate of family and opinion terrorism”. The Court of First Instance expressly notes that the impunity is judgments of value that reflect the actual and provenable situations, ladies and gentlemen. The DÖW, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and Greens, is now their link. That's the only thing you're uplifting. That is what keeps you both together: the fight against right-wing civil society, because much else in your government programme really does not find itself – except a few lukewarm announcements. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Since – I honestly say that to you – I would expect President Sobotka to apologize, you may ask him to do so. But now I come to the lukewarm announcements in your government program, a government program of the rich for the rich. It's not so unusual that black and green have found themselves, because you're both making a policy for rich people. Where does the typical green come from? – He is mostly young, well formed, coming from a bourgeois parent house, living in good residential areas. This is also reflected in a very precise way in this government programme; a government programme in which one seeks in vain whether there may be measures for workers, actual relief for micro-earners. Please don't come to me with the income tax! Over two and a half million workers in that country do not pay income tax at all because they earn so little. What to do You're for this group? – Just nothing you do for this group! Or: A reform at the AMS is in vain. They will continue to offer some senseless courses, probably even more so now, so that the NGOs of the Greens and the socio-economic companies of the Greens also have really full order books. That's the policy you're making, that's the concessions to the Greens. You're looking for nothing. One is also looking for a word for minimum security in vain. There's nothing in there. The countries would have been obliged by 1. October to implement the implementing laws. Vienna is still stingy. To date, nothing has happened in Vienna. Improvements in the new basic social assistance law have not been implemented. In fact, the new Minister of Social Affairs is required. In this context, I would like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Instead, there is a new insurance scheme in the field of care: a care insurance. No one knows what this care insurance will cover. We may even get a new social security institution up there, so that a few more blacks can be supplied. This is the policy you are making here, and that is a policy of burden on people in this country, a policy that will make everything more expensive. Instead of making sure that our own population finds itself more and more in the work process – you know that unemployment is increasing, that economic data are going down – is the only answer you have: We want to continue teaching asylum seekers. That is your answer, that is your policy, and this is a way that is a bad, misguided path for the citizens of this country, which we reject and which we do not want to go along with, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They continue to make the teaching unattractive. They want to abolish the hacker scheme. Someone who starts to work at 15 will then be most disadvantaged, who will have to work 50 years and longer according to your system. This is not fair, it is not fair, and with it you will not teach the people, the young Austrians. The teaching is no longer attractive when you take such measures instead of allowing those who have done much in your life to take retirement once to those who have worked for 45 years, to enjoy what they have paid for their whole life. Instead, you're talking about the need to abolish the hacker scheme. That's too expensive – costs perhaps 100 million euros a year – we can't afford it all! Pension increase – we cannot afford everything. We can only manage unbridled immigration. – These are the wrong priorities, ladies and gentlemen of this federal government. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I have listened very closely to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic, also Klubobmann Wöginger, because you have spoken so great about the fact that you have a restrictive foreign course. The only thing that has been agreed upon by both: We now want to protect the external borders again – and to support them in the countries of origin. - Like, you left it out. This has been heard by the Austrians since 2015, and we know that this does not work. The external borders will not be sufficiently protected, nor will the new Federal Government be able to change them. How can she do that? How do you even want to guarantee a restrictive foreign/immigration policy? - You can't. In this whole law, there is not at all a single measure which is already in preparation today, which needs to be prepared for structural measures already to be put in place, so that, in the case of this, it is at all possible to protect national borders and to propose a brake on unbridled immigration. None of this can be found in the programme. That is, they are empty words, lukewarm words, which you present to you, what this lukewarm federal government is supposed to do. Ladies and gentlemen, this will not work. This is a neoliberal, green course. [[Mr Stögmüller and Mr Loacker.]] This is a programme for Bobos, which is a programme for neoliberal civilians, but this is not a programme for citizens in this country. [[Abg. Loacker: I argue that this is a neoliberal program!]] This is a programme for a few wealthy people, for a few – who become richer and richer with this government programme – but you have completely forgotten the working population in this programme. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call to the Greens:Crying applause! Very behavioral!]] [[11:48]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9155	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled, is therefore also under negotiation and comes to the vote at the end of the debate. Mrs Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9180	Madam President. Valuable members of the government and vice chancellors! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear audience! Yes, the environment, clean policies and social justice were not only urgently needed, which actually exists in the form of concrete measures only with the greens in a government participation, in this government project. In particular, the second area, clean policy, seems of great relevance to me, because we know that there has been an urgent need to do something due to the blue affairs and corruption in the last two years. Our transparency package is therefore not only very ambitious, but the most ambitious in the Second Republic, I would say. [[Abg. Loacker: The chambers do not occur...!]] This is not the smallest compromise, it is a large, uncompromising throw. That's a good thing! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The secret of office falls, we Greens are the guarantee. Green makes the difference. Not only will the constitutional articles which lay down the dusty silence of office in this country be abolished, but we will also establish information as an indictable law. With the right to information, NGOs, citizens, citizens, but also journalists will receive useful information and answers for the first time. The latter seems very, very important to me, because we have had to deal with attacks on freedom of the press in Austria, in a European, Western country, over the last two years. That's where we have to get up in the international ranking. I am therefore very pleased that we are taking concrete steps there. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We will also be anchoring the obligation to publish information actively, including studies on tax money, but also opinions. That, in turn, means not only strengthening parliamentarism, but also the rule of law mentioned by you, Mr Leichtfried. So at least enjoy the greens at this point! Secret loans, even that is quite, very important, gold barber bunkers or banknote shifts are now part of the past. In the future, as is already the case in Austria, the parties have to reveal their assets, their debts, and their revenue, but also their expenditure: a course that is now finally becoming reality under the government participation of the Greens. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is also important, just as necessary, that the Court of Auditors should have more audit skills and that, with the participation of 25 percent – 50 percent so far – it can also be examined accordingly. You know that for over 30 years, the Greens have been in favour of a risky control here in this Parliament. It is precisely this control that has been painfully missing in the last two years. [[Abg. Loacker: You have to take that into consideration!]] That is why I am particularly pleased that this one has not only moved in but is also committed. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Loacker: The green improver who has catapulted you out of parliament...!]] A liberal, defensive democracy needs transparency, a liberal democracy needs freedom of information. Only in a strong democracy do free citizens and non-glasses live. Speaking of tar color, I guess, dear SPÖ, is also a little camouflage for the fact that in the past, just as at the exploratory table, you have not succeeded in negotiating these things – as concrete as the green ones. Green makes the difference, and that's not about ideology. One sentence to the FPÖ: I think it is quite, very important to this Parliament's debate on the subject, that your right demagogens, just as you, as a minister of danger, as I have always been meeting, are no longer sitting on the government bank, but that we have the youngest, the most female, but also the bravest government in this country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger]] [[towards Abg. Kickl]] I am confident that it will also be the most transparent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] In this sense: Green makes the difference. I look forward to working together very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9285	Next came Mr Nikolaus Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9306	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I would like to begin by congratulating all of you on your appointment to ministers and wish you good luck for your work, also a lot of courage, a lot of force and, in particular, a lot of conviction. Indeed, government programmes can be read in a very different way. One can see what is actually inside and, for example, criticize these measures as too little innovative. You can look at what's not inside and say, there's something missing, that may have been forgotten, deliberately left out or fell under the table in some other way. What I find most exciting: If you read a government program and look at political parties' positions, you can see that the government programme is different from those promised in the election campaign. We have heard a lot of compromises in recent weeks. However, I am not concerned with the compromises, because it is quite understandable that we must make compromises in policy and that the compromise is an essential part of policy. The question is why one suddenly takes on diametrically different, completely different positions than one promised in the election campaign and suddenly gives up its fundamental fundamental positions in the context of the formation of a federal government. The most exciting thing in this government programme is where not only one of the two parties has given up its basic position, but both together managed to forget something they promised to do in the election campaign. They all remember: As always in an election campaign, it was promised that the cold progression will finally be abolished. If one reads through the government programme, it stands back in there again, it is to be checked whether the cold progression should be abolished. I wonder what you're supposed to check. So it's very interesting: Everyone knows what the cold progression is. They promise the Austrians that they will be relieved. I can tell the Austrians that this will not be the case, because as long as you do not abolish the cold progression, as long as you secretly take more money out of the wallet every year, the entire tax reform will not help them. You can paint the tax reform. People in Austria will pay for the discharge themselves again and will ultimately be even more burdened than they were before. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] This is the part in which both parties suddenly demand something different from what they originally said. The Federal Chancellor mentioned earlier that he did not want policy to be made at the expense of the next generations. It is very courageous to say that and, at the same time, to state in a government programme on pensions that the Austrian pension system is characterised by safety and clarity. It is very exciting to hear this, because it was, in particular, the Federal Chancellor – I believe, still in his time as JVP chief or later – who always said that there is a need for a fundamental reform of the pension system to ensure that the pension system becomes unique. Especially in this Federal Government, in which most ministers are younger than 40, I would have expected to look to the future generations and try to finally reform the pension system. What is proposed here is not the best of both worlds, that is to forget about the future and a blow to the face of the next and the next generation, since you don't want to reform anything in the pension system at all. That's clearly too little. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! In recent weeks, they have repeatedly conjured the compromise. I have already said that the compromise is an essential part of policy, because without compromise it cannot work. However, there is no compromise on fundamental fundamental and freedom rights, Mr Vice-Chancellor. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Light peace.]] Mrs Ernst-Dziedzic, who had gone to the speaker's desk with the Greens, said: There has been no control in Parliament over the last two years. What the Greens have signed there is the ultimate declaration of bankruptcy in connection with fundamental and freedom rights. You have given up your conviction as a fundamental right party for entry into the ministries. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Ernst-Dziedzic: You have to say that! That's not true!]] Mrs. Ernst-Dziedzic! It is the greens who are now preventively preparing the ground. Mr Kickl has already said that he is pleased to agree. They are those who do what the Austrian federal constitution does not intend to do, namely to arrest someone preventively. The government program is secure, you write that you want to implement this human rights conforming to human rights. [[Abg. Ernst-Dziedzic:... don't stand inside!]] That is what Mr Kickl wanted, by the way. Do you know what the problem is? – There is no prevention in accordance with human rights, and you have not understood that. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] You have been pulled over the table by the ÖVP and have given up your entire reputation as a fundamental right and freedom party. Exciting and the culmination of Mrs Maurer's motions for resolutions over the last one and a half weeks, Mrs Zadić will be careful in the Ministry of Justice to protect our constitution, to protect our fundamental and freedom rights, is that a Federal Ministerial Act is being adopted today, in which exactly these parts, these competences are returned from the Ministry of Justice to the Chancellor's office. That means: What's going to happen? – Federal Chancellor Kurz, together with his Minister of the Interior Nehammer, will work out an appropriate preventive work, you have nothing to do with it and prepare the ground for the Kickl’s preventive. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ernst-Dziedzic.]] Norbert Hofer will then, as already announced at the round table, most likely – and rightly – hand over to the order of the FPÖ, because you are participating in this absurd idea of the Federal Chancellor. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The whole thing is so annoying because it's not just one thing in the government programme. It's not a slipper, it's not a mistake. You continue to write that you want to have a constitutional federal trojan in the future – the federal trojan that the Greens have fought over and over again! – and this goes on and on and on and remains so situational. [[Abg. Ernst-Dziedzic:... VfGH judgment!]] In the EU election campaign, Mr Vice-Chancellor has been with me at several demonstrations, namely against Article 13 against the upload filters, and now the Greens in this government programme support a upload filter. I am excited how you explain to all the young people who, together with us, were at the demonstrations against Article 13, why you want to abolish the free Internet together with Federal Minister Blümel, who at the time, as a media minister, has made great progress. [[Abg. Ernst-Dziedzic shakes his head.]] This is a declaration of bankruptcy of the Greens in connection with fundamental and freedom rights! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Ernst-Dziedzic: I like to give a reading course for the NEOS!]] I'm telling you, I could do this for a long time, and I'll repeat: I am not concerned with making a compromise when a compromise is necessary; but if you give up your fundamental convictions for ministerial posts, you should not talk about compromises anymore.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9433	Mr Blümel has now spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9454	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery, at home in front of the screens or via live stream! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the National Council! “Out of responsibility for Austria” is not only the title of this government programme, but also describes very well the official understanding of the Federal Chancellor, the Vice Chancellor and all colleagues in the Federal Government. For this very reason, it is important that we take up work immediately in the Federal Government, because we face many major challenges. This is not the last thing you realize when you look at a few macroeconomic figures. In Germany, economic growth in 2019 was only 0.5 percent. Thus, Germany is over at the edge of a recession. Now it's gonna be a little better, but there's still no singing. In Austria, we have been better than the Germans in recent years, but the forecast of 1.2 percent growth is not exactly such that you can put your hands in the lap. The labour market has stabilized, which could be a good news – but it is not when you see that unemployment has fallen regularly in recent years. Therefore, this is also a certain alarm signal. Internationally, we must pay attention to developments in the Middle East, as well as those in Europe. When I look at the Brexit: Although it will finally be implemented, which will make it clear, it will not help to create a positive mood in the economy. That is why it is all the more important, ladies and gentlemen, that we do our homework in Austria and work out room for the future. In addition to my role in government coordination – together with the Vice-Chancellor – I have two priority areas that I would like to briefly present to you. One is the careful handling of the Austrian tax money and Austrian. This includes, above all, an efficient administrative process, and this includes not making new debts, namely, while ensuring the necessary investment. A lot has already been said about the zero deficit, and I think it was here in the House that a politician brought a change of the famous quote of Jacques Delors: Nobody falls in love with a zero deficit. – I confess to you, I may be among the few who have a slope to it, but I am also aware that this is not a self-interest. I am also aware that it is only a means to develop scope for action to ensure that the state can provide sufficient flexibility to counter it in difficult times – for the benefit of the Austrians, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The second major focus is undoubtedly the discharge of people in Austria. I believe that the state still takes too much away from the Austrians. This federal government will ensure that at the end of the day more remains in the stock exchange. That's important, we promised, we'll keep it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will therefore push the tax rate towards 40 percent. At the same time, we will ensure that people remain more in the Stock Exchange, such as the reduction of wage tax classes from 25 per cent to 20 per cent, from 35 per cent to 30 per cent and from 42 per cent to 40 per cent. In addition, the family bonus, a achievement of the last government, will be further increased, from 1,500 euros to 1,750 euros per child per year. This is a relief especially for those who are double burdened, who go to work and have children. And because it has already been addressed: Especially for single earners and Single-parents with low incomes will also increase the amount of children, from 250 euros to 350 euros per child, and we will face exactly what the opposition has accused us of. It is not all that you have said here today, ladies and gentlemen, that is true. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We also want to make Austria attractive for investment, for investment in companies, for new projects, because this is important to create new, good jobs in this country. I am therefore pleased that measures such as the reduction of corporate tax from 25 percent to 21 percent can significantly help to make the location more attractive. In the same way, we will increase the limit on the profit-free amount – so that an investment requirement no longer exists from a profit of EUR 30 000, but only from a profit of EUR 100 000 – and thus, above all, the many small companies, the individual companies and SMEs will be able to benefit more from what they are working hard. That is right, fair and just, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] If we are talking about sustainability in this government programme, we mean not only climate change and environmental protection, but also sustainability in financial and economic policy. There is hardly a better concept than the eco-social market economy. I remember Werner Kogler already meant in the election campaign, which could be an area where ÖVP and Greens meet, and we did that, as you can read in the government programme. This concept consists essentially of three pillars. The most fundamental and first pillar is a high-performance and competitive free market economy, which This is the second pillar, i.e. the social compensation, which can then be re-distributed. The third pillar is ecological sustainability. That is why we have also stated in the government programme that we will develop an environmental tax reform. We therefore want to make climate and environmental protection with the population and the economy and not against the location. This will ensure, ladies and gentlemen, that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] As Minister of Finance, perhaps a word about the Austrians' favorite investment form, namely the Saving Book: Around 40 percent of private funds are in this form of investment, which is currently a certain problem. We know that the low interest rate policy of the European Central Bank in recent years – which is likely not to change over the next few years – has actually reduced these assets. That really can't be it, we have to fight against it massively! That is why we in this Federal Government want to ensure that the fears of contact that still exist in Austria in relation to the capital market are gradually reduced so that all Austrians can benefit from it if the economy is well, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] An efficient management is also part of the careful handling of tax money. I have already expressly thanked myself for the fact that there are these and that the many experts in the Ministry of Finance do excellent work every day for everyone in this country. I would like to express my express thanks again to my predecessor Eduard Müller, who has done excellent work in the transitional government. A great thanks to him and the entire transitional government! I am all the more pleased that experts like him continue to work in the administration. A great thank you, dear Edi Müller, from this place! [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens as well as the Abg. Loacker.]] A look at the European level shows that we also need to work intensively there. As a former EU minister, I believe that budgetary discipline is important in Europe, so we will ensure that it is also called for in the negotiations on the Multiannual Financial Framework, and we also want to ensure that there are clear and transparent rules on the Stability and Growth Pact and also sanctions in the event of non-compliance. I was very upset about this, and we as the European Union have always been able to do so. The former Federal Government has organised a Western Balkans Conference with those countries that want to become members of the European Union. We told them: You know exactly what the EU wants from you! What do you want from the European Union? – It was very interesting what came as a feedback. They have said in agreement: It would be great if you were to comply with your own rules, which you have given yourself, if at the same time you asked us to comply with these rules if we wanted to join. This applies specifically to the Stability and Growth Pact and to debt ratios. – That is what we will place on, ladies and gentlemen, dear. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We also want to fight at European level for taxation of large digital companies to be possible. We have introduced such a digital tax in Austria within the framework of the last Federal Government. This is only good and fair, because it must not be true that multinational corporations such as Facebook, Google, Amazon et cetera, which make billions of revenues, pay in fact less taxes in Austria as the gripper around the corner. When we implement this, it is a contribution to greater justice for all Austrian taxpayers, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] So you see, not only in the Ministry of Finance, there is much to do for the entire Federal Government. We will go to work quickly, but also humbly and with a great sense of responsibility. I am looking forward to a good cooperation with the House in this legislative period. – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9617	Now Mrs Bundesminister Leonore Geessler has spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9639	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen in the Federal Government! Dear High House! Dear spectators at home in front of the TV screens or via live stream! Today is a historic day, that has already been said. That's what he might be for me personally, but that's not what it's all about. It's a historic day for the Greens, but it's not primarily about me now. It is about that, as a result of the climate and environmental programme in the government programme of this Federal Government, I believe, we can actually celebrate a historic day in terms of climate and environmental protection in Austria. I am very pleased that I am able to present this part of the government programme to you today, because we have done a great deal to address no more and no less than the key challenges of our future, and to take responsibility for a climate-neutral, ecological, but also for a just and economically sustainable Austria. Climate neutrality by 2040 is the goal we have set ourselves in this government programme. In fact, this is a scale and challenge that is appropriate to the historical responsibility we stand before. It has been mentioned many times today: In Australia, a continent, an area is now burning in the size of Austria. However, we do not have to look so far, we only have to remember the last summer: the heat waves, the wall drains, the great damage in agriculture. The climate crisis has arrived in Austria, so we need the courage and determination in the action provided by this government programme to address this crisis. It's Friday, Friday afternoon: Not far from here are young people standing on the street again to work for their future. The responsibility for this future, the responsibility for a viable future in Austria, however, is shared here, and it is we who will shape this transformation, this change process. I would like to look at young people, because we will need their strength, their persistence, their energy, their courage to design and their will to change in order to implement this programme together and to live up to what our historical responsibility in this situation is based on scientific facts. This is the responsibility of the Federal Government, and I am very pleased to be part of it personally. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I am convinced that the conditions for decisive action on climate change have rarely been as good as they are now, including with regard to social support. That is why it is so important that we, together with the people in the federal government, in the countries and in the communities, come into implementation. Climate protection – it is especially important to me to say this today – is not a renunciation programme, but a programme of opportunities. It is a programme for a more quality of life, for a more clean air, for more space, more health, more justice and yes, more economic opportunities. That is why I am particularly pleased that the chapter on industry and the economy in our government programme on climate protection is being used as an innovation boost and as a production of a sustainable basis especially for our industry and economy. Climate protection is the opportunity to set us up for the future, so I would like to expressly invite us to dialogue at this point. Austria 2040 is an overall social project involving many innovative entrepreneurs. However, we must also develop it together and in dialogue with the workers who will accompany this transformation. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I've already said it: Climate neutrality 2040 as a goal is a central part of this government programme. It is our ambition to get to the top of European climate protection. Accordingly, we will also step up our efforts at European level and support the EU Commission's efforts to adapt climate change targets by 2030 and 2050 respectively, in order to get Europe on a path towards meeting the Paris climate agreement. Objectives are important, at least equally important are concrete measures. Therefore, allow me to present you briefly some of the concrete measures contained in this government programme. The eco-social tax reform has already been mentioned, it is a central concern, so I would like to take a brief look at it. We have done it in two steps: 2021 with six very concrete projects announced in the government programme. It is a matter of ensuring that climate-friendly behaviour is worthwhile by means of central parking screws in the control system, that climate-friendly behaviour is calculated. In a second step, which is now being jointly developed, it is about addressing the pricing of emissions – of course, with compensatory measures for the economy and private ones. It is about taking account of regional differences, of social differences, and of creating this environmental-social tax reform well and together. We have proposed the introduction of a climate protection law, we have proposed the introduction of a climate check, i.e. we make climate protection a central criterion in the legislative process. There are numerous horizontal measures in the climate and energy programme which, I think, can significantly improve our cooperation in this area. Finally, I would like to talk about mobility and energy. We have done a lot about mobility. I am glad that this has already been taken up positively today. On the one hand, we are concerned with creating the strategic foundations for the further development of the mobility system. The centrepiece for this is the Mobility Master Plan 2030. It is a strategic reorientation of the mobility system towards the achievement of the Paris climate targets, and this is complete by a master plan of freight transport. It is indeed a great challenge that we are facing. The core of all of our considerations is a sustainable mobility for all in the city and also in the rural regions. In order to achieve this, there are two key approaches: Development of public transport, attractive further development of rail infrastructure as a backbone of environmentally friendly public transport. The public authorities for urban and rural development Space has already been widely used. That's right. Expanding the already good public service offer is a central concern. We want to improve the offer and the clocking under the title Guaranteed mobile and the tariff offer with a cheap Austrian annual network ticket. With the 1-2-3 ticket, we also want to implement a long-term transport policy requirement and thus make public transport in Austria even more attractive. We have a very good offer in Austria, but we also have a benchmark, which is our neighbours in Switzerland, and it is worth looking at and in this sense developing the public offer for all in this country with more quality of life. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] As regards active mobility, there is also a lot in the government programme: a bicycle offensive, the attraction of pedestrian traffic, accessibility – all these are important topics in environmentally friendly mobility. Of course, it is also important in road transport to take great steps towards decarbonisation, changeover to renewable energy sources and alternative drives. To take big steps also means to show the administration: CO2-neutral, climate-neutral management is a major issue in this government agreement with a large number of measures. I think that we really have opportunities to move forward on the key issue of mobility and to take the next steps towards freedom of emission across the mobility sector. I would also like to mention briefly the transport of goods. There we want to put initiatives on greater cost-truth at national and EU level, to make use of scope for ecologicalisation, especially in the area of transit traffic. This is an essential problem, an essential issue in Austria. We want to relieve the people who are affected by it on a daily basis. In the face of the difficult market background, moving goods from road to rail is also a central issue of this government programme. Apart from the major transit routes, we also want to put in place measures to strengthen the local freight and logistics industry, but on the other hand to develop new, experimental solutions to give space to innovative concepts. On the last two points: I have the honour – according to your consent today to the Federal Ministry Act – then to lead a ministry that, in addition to transport, innovation and technology, will also include the areas of climate protection, energy and the environment, and thus will really be the place in this government, which can also think and apply, across sectors, some of the central thresholds for climate protection together. That's what I'm looking forward to. At the heart of this additional energy area, however, will certainly be the successor to the Eco electricity Act, i.e. the expansion of renewable energies. We start in Austria from a good starting position, but we have a lot ahead of us. I do not think I have to explain in particular to the energy spokespersons of the parliamentary parties, the climate protection spokespersons and spokespersons, that the objective we have set ourselves here, namely the expansion of renewable energy to the extent of 27 terawatt hours, is an ambitious one, one that will move us to quick action and that we need to act quickly, but one that has real opportunities and for which there is really massive support in the population. Let us bear in mind that in the promotion we want to go from the stop-and-go to the ongoing expansion, especially as regards photovoltaics; I am addressing here the one-million roof photovoltaic program. There we can really develop climate protection close to people, close to the Austrians, because many are already there, and there is great potential that there are more people about renewable energy communities, about their photovoltaic plant at I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, but I'm I think that is also one of the central levers to bring climate protection very close to the people. I look forward to working with you in the development of this law. We want to get it to the High House quickly. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have, of course, many more projects in this government programme in the field of climate protection and energy in addition to a new energy efficiency law with improved criteria. The phase-out for fossil energy sources in space heat was addressed. We will further develop this in dialogue with the federal states, the energy suppliers and the operators, because the exit from oil, coal and gas heating systems – and I can take up the discussion from the outset – is a future chance for Austria. It's also an opportunity for more justice, because I think one is clear: A well-renovated house heated or cooled with renewable energies is one that has significantly lower operating costs in the long term, and it is also a contribution to social justice if we are ambitious and courageous. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] As a result of the short period of time, I have now been able to mention only a few of the measures under the government programme in the field of climate change, energy, mobility and infrastructure. In the next few days and weeks, we will become very active especially in these areas and prepare the first measures and processes together with you, because I am really convinced that climate protection can only work together as a project. Therefore, from this point of view, I also invite all of you – to all members of the House, to the federal states, the cities, the municipalities, especially to the economy, the interests, the social partners, the science, civil society and the NGOs – to join us in shaping the project climate neutrality in 2040. I think it's a huge opportunity for our country. I am very looking forward to working together, I am very pleased to meet the challenge and I am pleased to join you in shaping the future of Austria in terms of climate protection and climate neutrality in 2040! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9766	Mr Josef Muchichzzu has now been reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9790	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the new Federal Government! Estimated plenary! Today, at the beginning of his speech, the Federal Chancellor said: A new chapter will be added. – Yes, a new chapter will be added when it comes to distributing a lot of gifts to the economy, to agriculture, but above all to large companies. There is much on the table of declarations of intent for better climate and environmental policy, but there is nothing to do with social measures when it comes to greater social justice and social security. You can congratulate the ÖVP: She succeeded in maintaining herself towards the Greens, in that she is allowed to continue her conservative middle-right and rich course. We as SPÖ have hoped very much that the Greens will stand for an even better social Austria in their past passion – as we were allowed to get to know them in the opposition. We have hoped that they will put in place measures to prevent the barrier between the poor and the rich from further apart. This hope has not been fulfilled; on the contrary, the sheer between the poor and the empire is still further apart with this coalition paper. Let me perhaps support this with two examples: The tax reform – already implemented by the Minister of Finance – will lead to a reduction in wage tax levels. But how does this affect? In Euro, there is more tax savings for the service providers than for the low earners. [[Abg. Wöginger: He pays more!]] As a second example of the family bonus, which is basically something right: It is not true, however, that there will again be a plus of 250 euros for operators, while those 300 000 children who cannot choose to grow up in a rich family will be fed up with 100 euros per year plus. It's not socially fair, it's not fair! Social democratic and social manuscript looks different, namely that every child in our country is equally valuable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I remember the 30th. June 2018: Some of the Greens here were at Heldenplatz with us when we demonstrated for more leisure time against the 60-hour week, against the 12-hour day, for a four-day week. Nothing of that can be found in this paper. What are you doing? – Instead of really starting to finish your coalition paper now, the first big news in the media after fishing was that you want to get rid of those people who have worked hard for 45 years. That's not fair. This is not fair, therefore, because it really tries to divide society. When it comes to the first year, this measure costs up to 30 million euros and then every year between 40 and 50 million euros, which means additional costs of some hundreds of million euros, everyone immediately shouts up and says: How to finance counter-financing? We need an opinion! Where, though, is the opinion on your 2 000 million euros of tax gifts to the big corporations and the economy that you are disbursing? Who is funding the counter-financing? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this regard, we clearly agree in the Social Democratic Party, and now I can use the words of August Wöginger that all people who rise in this country every day in the early days, as he said today, who work the day after day, pay the month after month taxes and also social security contributions that pay 45 years, have earned a discount-free pension. [[Abg. Worm: My words, Beppo!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Worm: Bravo!]] I would therefore also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We would ask you to agree to this request. We shall make a further request, a self-employed request, which will also fix it accordingly, with Parliament not yet able to find a majority to do so, namely a request for all professional groups after 45 years of contribution, including all those who have reached 45 years of age, and taking into account the presence and civil service times. Mr Sozialminister, we will be working on this in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. The first consultations were held in January. I really invite you all: Let us together make a policy that is fair and fair for workers in this country and also for our older generation! - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[12:33]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9952	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Next item is the report by Mr Peter Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9980	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! Dear Joseph, yes, we in the ÖVP and our entrepreneurs are used to going new ways. We are successful with these new ways. That is why today is a good day for our Austria: The statements by the leading representatives of our Federal Government show quite clearly what it looks like to take responsibility for Austria. And responsibility has also been taken over by many individuals in the government negotiations by bringing their expertise, experience and expertise into our programmes. And I also say a warm thank you from this point of view. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] If we look at the programme very carefully – and I recommend to everyone that he reads it very carefully – we realize that this programme shows very clearly in terms of economic location, jobs and skilled people, climate change and energy change in the future. This programme also keeps course – the Minister of Finance has already mentioned it – in terms of balanced state budget and discharges for the Austrians, and that is good, ladies and gentlemen. The government programme is not the smallest common denominator, but it is a government programme that clearly illustrates the priorities of the partners in this government. The good thing about it is that we can combine the priorities of the two partners. A modern economic policy does not exclude a successful climate and energy policy, but rather is a driver of innovation in many businesses and areas, which our entrepreneurs already clearly show today. For me, as economic spokesperson of my party, the negotiations showed that it is possible with our new partners to continue the path that has been taken, instead of burdening it. We have also shown the appropriate appreciation for our entrepreneurs and companies with their businesses in this programme. It is not that we are making policy for corporations or anyone, but we are making policy for the economic location of Austria and for the thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises with their employees, who are the backbone of our Austrian economy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] That is why we are also putting in place the measures relating to discharge where these small and medium-sized enterprises and their employees benefit. We are reducing the tax on wages and income, as the Minister of Finance has already mentioned. [[Abg. Easy: So far a bad speech!]] In addition, we have planned a reduction in corporate tax, which is also an important point again, and with a new form of employee profit participation, we want to make it possible for employees to be involved in the profit of the company in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] We do this during this period, ladies and gentlemen. The discharges provided for in this government programme contribute to further developing our location. New jobs will be created with new opportunities, and the opportunities will be God's thanks to the prevention, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Lightenness: Now it had to clap!]] That's very important. I am also very grateful for the fact that the Minister of Economic Affairs is again called Margarete Schramböck and she can continue her successful path of digitization for our site. Ladies and gentlemen, that the path of responsibility is a more successful one, you can see it at the state of Salzburg under the leadership of head of state Dr. Wilfried Haslauer. There we have been a successful partnership with the Greens for a long time. I am also pleased that the former Head of State, Astrid Rössler, can now become active together with us here in Parliament. [[Abg. Schellhorn: Don't forget anything!]] Salzburg shows it: excellent economic growth, lowest unemployment rates and a strong social network for those who need it. – Mr Schellhorn, you came a little later. [[Cheerfulness with the NEOS.]] To address also a small innovative example from Salzburg: We have already introduced the repair bonus in Salzburg at the beginning of the year; and our government programme also states: ‘Repair instead of discarding’. – That's very, very important. This is good for the trade, which is good for the craftsmanship and that is good for the environment, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] It is also an excellent example of how business and environmental protection can best come together. As a representative of the economy, I am of course pleased that the Federal Government is also very clearly in favour of strengthening economic cooperation models in the form of cooperatives. This is also important for the regions, since in any case: Cooperation is more sought-after today than ever; in this respect, we also put in place a very important measure. Ladies and gentlemen, this was only a small extract of the activities for the Austrian site, for its businesses and, above all, for the workers. The programme is committed and forward-looking. As you can see, we are happy to take responsibility for our home country Austria. We invite you to take this path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10075	Next speaker: Mr Hubert Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10096	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Values Advisors! Wide areas of the “Economics & Finance” chapter in the government programme bear the handwriting of freedom, and that is good. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] In particular, the tax reform corresponds to the Council of Ministers' presentation of 1. May 2019, the Federal Minister Löger and I have worked together. [[Abg. Easy: Yes, then we have to vote in favour!]] We will also vote in favour. However, a key point is missing in the government programme: In debureaucratisation and simplification, especially in the area of wage accounting, the ÖVP has left the courage. There is nothing left to be found in the current government programme of a uniform service provider's tax with a uniform procedural law and a single appeal agency. The ÖVP-FPÖ government had in its government programme or in the Council of Ministers' presentation of 1st. May 2019 provides for the total collection of all income-related taxes, i.e. social security, DB, DZ and municipal tax, in the form of a uniform service provider's tax by the financial administration. Thus, according to the EIA-FPÖ programme, no longer would the entrepreneur have had to carry out the distribution of all wage-dependent taxes by a complicated and costly wage calculation, but the financial management would have removed the uniform service provider's tax and passed it on to the authorities. For entrepreneurs, there would have been only one point of contact on all questions relating to the transfer, the examination and the collection of pay-related charges. As a result of these measures, the State would have become much more slender in this area and entrepreneurs would have saved some of their costs and jobs. All of this will no longer be to the detriment of entrepreneurs. Furthermore, the Constitutional Court has declared the merger of the auditors of the two main institutions for wage accounting, the regional health telephone and the financial offices to be unconstitutional. In the interests of debureaucratisation and administrative simplification, I expect the Federal Government to ensure that a corresponding constitutional solution is achieved in this respect. Unfortunately, there is nothing in the government programme. Another important point on de-bureaucratisation and the discharge of taxpayers is missing in the government programme: In the area of workers, the advertising fee would have been increased from 132 euros per year to 300 euros under the ÖVP FPÖ government. In addition to tax relief, workers could have been taxed at an additional EUR 140 million per year. The increase in the rate of advertising would also have been a huge red tape relief. In future 60 000 workers would have saved workers' income, which of course would also have caused the financial management to pay off accordingly. The – so-called – “ecologisation and increase the reliability of the shuttle fee” in the government program is very worrying to me. For those who do not have meaningful alternatives to the car, it must be ensured that the ecologisation of the pendulum fee does not lead to a tax increase. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am also concerned by the “combat against tank tourism” proclaimed by the Federal Government, even though tank tourism is burdening our CO2 balance. The Republic of Austria earns many, many hundreds of millions of euros in mineral oil tax and sales tax through tank tourism. In the end, these millions will be missing from the budget when the tank tourism is abolished and will have to be compensated in some way – hopefully not through tax increases. In addition to tax relief, however, it is also necessary to exempt from current compulsory charges. Not only is the long-standing abolition of the obligation to declare in the “Amtsblatt zur Wiener Zeitung” (Amtsblatt zur Wiener Zeitung) – unfortunately, in the last Federal Government we have no longer succeeded – but also a abolition of the ORF penalty fees. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[12:46]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10265	This motion for a resolution is also properly tabled and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Lukas Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10292	Madam President. Dear members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen. We're on the 29th. September with a central promise to vote, and this is also the promise I made in politics: We want to do everything we can to combat the climate crisis by moving climate protection from the edge to the centre of our policy and by turning Austria into a follow-up to climate protection by overcoming our dangerous and expensive dependence on oil and gas and turning to 100% renewable energy. – We made this promise before the election, and we kept a word. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Today we put climate protection at the centre of our policy for the first time. Climate protection is no longer a beiwagerl in the Ministry of Agriculture, which only one member of the government takes care of. With its own comprehensive climate ministry, climate protection is finally given an appropriate priority to one of the problem situations. We have increased the small Beiwagerl to a strong train that draws all policies towards climate protection. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Obernosterer.]] In addition, with the introduction of a climate cabinet, we ensure that the entire federal government assumes responsibility. In the future, too, a finance minister can no longer lean back and pretend that he was not affected by climate change. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoking.]] The government programme presented today contains the most courageous and far-reaching environmental and climate protection programme that this country has ever seen. We can be proud of that. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I thank, of course, our negotiating teams and our employees, but above all also the ÖVP for the constructive and ultimately very successful negotiations. Thank you. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] It has already been mentioned what we are doing: Climate neutrality up to 2040; an eco electricity law, with which we switch to natural, renewable energies; an energy efficiency law; we not only expand public transport, but also make it cheaper throughout Austria; furthermore: an eco-social tax reform with a clear roadmap – that was addressed –; a new climate protection law; a climate check; a lot of climate-neutral management. We have a complete A4 page in how the public hand should play a pioneering role in ecological transformation. What I am particularly pleased with is a circular economic package that we have decided to make; it has also been discussed. This is about the tax promotion of repair services, the support of socio-economic enterprises and the legal support of multi-way systems. We also succeeded in a just transition package, and much more. It's clear: If we fail in these questions, then this is not a purely environmental problem. In Australia, people are not faced with environmental problems, but with the torment and ruins of their existence. And if in Austria the fields are broken down, the forests are destroyed by storms, then the social and economic problems are. The climate crisis aggravates all the social and economic problems that we have – and it always hits the worst of those who have contributed least; worldwide, but also in Austria. Climate protection has not been a secondary issue for a long time, and today, as we have said, we are making sure that we focus on this issue. Austria, of course, has not been able to save the climate on its own, but we have made the promise – and we also keep this promise – that we will do everything in the future, so that Austria can play a pioneering role in Europe and that Europe can also play a pioneering role in international climate policy. For this we need all the parties, all the democratic parties in this House, because it's all about us, and that's why we all need it here in this House: The members of the Federal Government need it, we need 183 national councillors and also all federal councillors. This is a joint effort. I am pleased that the NEOS and the Social Democrats have already received an offer for constructive cooperation in this regard. That gives me hope. Hope we need. We need hope, courage, confidence and strength. I would also like this to be done by our new Federal Government, above all by our new Minister for Climate Change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10377	The next item is Mrs Martina Künsberg Sarre. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10398	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, congratulation of the new Federal Government. I am looking forward to a good and objective cooperation. I look, above all, in your direction, Mr Fassmann, because you have to take responsibility for the very important areas of education and science, and I look forward to a lively, constructive cooperation. I was in the democracy workshop yesterday and discussed and answered questions with young people, 13-year-old young boys and girls, about democracy, participation et cetera. If you work with so young people and you're working together, you'll realize that it's about these young people for whom we're making politics here, making reasonable politics, not only for those who're already here, but also for those who're going to come. I now look in the direction of the Greens in particular. I am right to say that the issue of sustainability is important – it is also very, very important for us NEOS – but I believe that sustainability should not only concern environmental protection, but that sustainability in policy should also apply, in particular, to education. We need well-trained young people to ensure that these sustainable self-requirements are The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I miss that in the government program. There are many small screws turned, but the big one remains outside, and the great challenges we face will remain. Let's start with the little ones: We need childcare facilities where our children can best develop their talents and where they can try out where they can easily learn. Much sounds good: qualitative expansion, quantitative expansion – of course we welcome NEOS very much, but it is too vague for us. There is no target at all: What should the care key look like in the end? How should the group size be We are European final light in these areas, and I think it would be interesting to know how the Federal Government wants to work on this. It is very welcome that kindergartens will be opened to other professional groups in the future. Music and ergotherapists will be an enrichment. There is also much to change in school. The school is intended to prepare our children for life, and it is intended to provide them with skills they have in the 21st century. ==References====External links==* Official website The school is supposed to inspire them and to bring talents to development. Of course we welcome, Beate Meinl-Reisinger has already said that the introduction of middle maturity – it is a long-standing demand of NEOS – and also the education requirement. This is good and should be implemented well and quickly. And at the end of the pilot programme, there's a chance index: The fact that this is to be implemented in 100 out of 6 000 schools in Austria is not enough. There are very good best-practice examples like the London School Challenge. As Austria, we do not need to reinvent the wheel, implement a pilot project and then evaluate it, and perhaps go into width after that, but we can use other examples that show how to improve equal opportunities and how integration can succeed. There is much more than just talking about the head covering ban. I think we need to think more about education. We must also be more courageous. We need to trust ourselves, and above all you have to trust yourself.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10455	Next speaker: Mr Georg Strasser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10492	Madam President. Estimated members of the new Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to thank you very much for the intensive discussions in our group on agriculture and regions. It was hard, there were fair discussions, and we have seen different approaches, points where we do not agree, but we have also found very many common positions. On the one hand, I see our commitment to rural family farms – this is very important to us, the Turks and the Greens. The second area: It is a question of value added and value added in agriculture, one of the ways in which the public is concerned about our services discussed, and on the other hand our income. There are also many similarities – a great thank you for that. We are able to outline a common path in organic and conventional agriculture, and we will continue to do so intensively so that, in the end, the Austrian farmers can provide their services: Food, landscape care, raw materials and energy. With our services we also guarantee a proper ecological situation and also our contribution to climate protection. A great thank you to the negotiators of the Greens – we are there on a good path! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Despite all the reform needs and efforts to make Europe and Austria better, we must say: Europe is undoubtedly a success project. Let us look at the common agricultural policy: It has been a guarantee for decades that the Austrian agricultural structures can be successfully managed. A great thank you also for the financial security: If the negotiations in Brussels are a little more slender, then the national safety net will apply. This is safe because the common agricultural policy and the payment of benefits constitute a very important pillar in the agricultural family incomes. Second area: We are committed to common and better regulations when it comes to plant protection, animal welfare and animal transport – this is also an answer to the signs of time. Progress will also be organised at European level. And finally – and I am glad that the European Commission is finding new access around the Green Deal –: Yes, we need more ecology and more climate protection in European policy. That's right for us. In the same breath, it must be mentioned that better protection of the external border is needed when it comes to feed and food from other continents which have been produced by reference to poorer standards. And the demand for CO2 tariffs is also heard in Europe. This is also an aspect of which it is necessary to protect our highest food quality in Austria and Europe in the markets – also a great thank you for this commitment. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The European project and our government project show that we can protect food, climate and farmers. Thank you very much for that too. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Last thanks goes to our Minister, our new Minister – She’s back! - Elli Köstinger. It is right, logical and good that she is the new Agriculture, Regional and Tourism Manager, because she was the leader in the government negotiations on these issues. A great thank you for this package! I believe that in the old ministry, climate and environmental protection were also very well removed. – A great thank you for your personal commitment! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We find in this ministry agriculture, forestry, water management, tourism, telecommunications and civil service, all of which concern regions, communities and farms, so that in the future we are able to maintain the good balance between the city and the country – in an ecological, social and economic way – so that we can eventually continue the Austrian path, the way of Austrian quality, because our food is the one in the climate of the world. the most healthy and the best food in the world. I say this with full conviction. Please keep us faithful in the future, so that we can continue our service to this and this country in the future – together for our home country Austria. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10573	Mrs Julia Herr has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10595	Mr National Council President! Appreciate members of the new government! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear spectators and spectators at home and at the gallery! It burns! It burns in Australia, where entire strips of land are destroyed and an area as large as Austria stands in flames. And if we look only 1,000 kilometers further north, for Indonesia, then we see a different but similar scenario there: There, 400 000 people are currently at risk of flooding. There's less reporting about it, but it's happening anyway. All these developments in the climate crisis show above all one thing: that it does not affect everyone equally strongly. It hits the poor, it hits the weaker a lot stronger. Yes, the well-known can judge it. This has never occurred better than through the last forest fires in California. There tens of thousands of people have lost everything, entire settlements have been burned down, and besides that in Malibu the villas of the rich and the beautiful have remained intact, because they have simply committed a private fire brigade; a private fire brigade that then expresses when it comes to the rich and the beautiful, and for no one else. This is the climate crisis in capitalism: Whoever has money can judge who does not, must keep looking where he stays. That's why I'm saying: The climate crisis is the social issue of our time. And that's why I'm asking: Who pays for climate protection in this government programme? As a climate protection speaker, I would like to begin by saying that very good measures are included in the climate protection chapter. Austria should be CO2-neutral by 2040 – how this should work exactly is not yet clear, but the goal is good and important. Many SPÖ requests from the election campaign are also included: The expansion of public transport, the 1-2-3 climate ticket, better building renovation and also the increase of resources for the Green Climate Fund, which concerns global climate protection. All these measures – and I am now looking at our green colleagues – are what we can be pleased with. But the question of who pays now and how all these measures are financed is not answered, there is nothing clear. I can probably thank the colleagues of the ÖVP for this. My understanding of just funding would have been that those who have more than ten thousand who, by the way, also contribute to climate change – that is scientifically proven – would also be contributing. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] For me, it would have been clear that we are not leaving the income millionaires in this country, that we are not leaving the large corporations and their owners outside when financing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But – and now I come to the point – also the rich in Austria have something in common with the rich in Malibu, they also have something like a private fire brigade, namely a private fire brigade called ÖVP, which always expresss immediately, if It is about the profit interests of the powerful friends from industry and business, who are always present immediately, although only some step towards fair distribution in that country is to happen. Therefore, not only is the funding for climate protection missing, no, there is also tax sugar exactly for this group: Tax on profits from securities, reduce stock trading, lower taxes on income millionaires, wine tax – you were really creative – lower, lower taxes on corporate profits. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Reisinger]] More than EUR 2 billion costs all these measures, which is why we should not only ask: Who is funding climate protection?, but must also ask: Who, then, is financing this tax sugar for the wealth in that country? For these measures, there are already precise deadlines and implementation plans – unlike in the climate chapter; that is what ÖVP says quite openly. The question is therefore: Where does this money come from and where will it be missing? So I come to the most important point: Yes, we will contribute to all projects in the field of climate protection. We will also agree where it makes sense, but we will do everything we can to ensure that the costs are not reduced to workers in that country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let's make it concrete as well: For example, who pays for the exchange of climate-damaging heaters? Getting out of fossil energy even when heating by 2035 is an important point in the government programme, but we should remember that the exchange of such heating, if the previous bonus is maintained, will cost 5 000 euros quickly. Five thousand euros do not have everyone, and that is to say, there is a need for social support. I would therefore like to give you an example, just one example: The reduction in profit tax proposed by you costs 1.5 billion euros. With this amount we could immediately exchange 300 000 heaters, and then we would all have after two years – everyone! - oil boilers in this country. That is what it is all about: the question of funding, the question of who in this country has to pay for climate protection. That's why: Good climate policy is also good social policy, and we will demand it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10686	Mr Michel Reimon has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10707	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen. Yesterday, in Europe, in the conservative empires of Europe, two things happened that have aroused much attention. On the one hand, Viktor Orbán gave one of his legendary press conferences in Budapest and explained: Europe is becoming much too liberal, everything is no longer going on, it must be brought about, the EPP will be far too liberal! He is considering setting up his own right-wing group, together with the Polish Conservatives, because Europe cannot develop as it pleases – and he has said he is guilty of it, by the way. At the same time, the Austrian Minister of Europe flies to France before she arrives here to say in France: We are bringing ourselves into European policy, we are bringing ourselves in constructively and we want to work on this matter at a level of attention! It thus sends a clear signal that Austrian European policy is changing with this government, changing from a coalition with a European anti-European legal party to a coalition with a Europe-friendly, progressive, ecolo- Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. This is a central concern of the Greens. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is nothing wrong to assume that in Austria we could do nothing about climate change. Austria is a decisive factor in the world's largest market: 500 million inhabitants with a purchasing power far above that of the Chinese, far above that of the US Americans. No one can influence international trade, international agreements as much as the European Union, and if we play a strong pro-European role – and that is what we have in mind – then we can have an influence that goes far beyond that of an 8 million country and have a lever that we must not leave behind and will not be left behind. In this sense, we will together make a modern pro-European policy. It is going to stop and hang in some things, I still find it exciting how these negotiations have been. FPÖ and ÖVP have been here two years ago and have said: We don't go anywhere. We're the best friends. – It exploded a year and a half later. I suggest, let's say, we're going to do this constructively. We don't agree on all things, but if it fits and lasts, it would be the goal that we work constructively for five years. I hope that's all right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10756	Mrs. Dr. Susanne Principal spoke. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10780	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! “#HassimNetz is an ominous phenomenon of our time. Such a thing may not have any place in our society, the new government will decide to take action against it, according to the words of the Federal Chancellor, which one can understand very well. It is not pleasant to stand in the centre of a so-called Shitstorm, to be the target of piled rough hate postings. This experience has already been made by many of us, I myself was in 2017 when I was nominated as a candidate for the Freedom Party, and I have always been a target after speeches. In recent days, the current Minister of Justice has also been there. Interestingly, postings that were pictured there have been covered with those I also received. All of this is, of course, deplorable from a certain level of threat, as the divorced Minister of Justice has called it; if it fails to achieve a certain level, it is more than unpleasant and also deplorable. A few months ago, however, a young man was also in charge, and in turn the current Minister of Justice was responsible. At that time, she – still as a member of the Pilz list – shared and published on Twitter the photo of a young man who got out of the window. [[Call to the Greens: “Wondered”!]] To this end, she wrote the nice words: ‘No tolerance for neo-Nazis, fascists and racists’. This has already been claimed with a lot of self-righteousness, because this person simply greeted, as well as a later video and the witness statements and so on have shown. [[Further calls for Greens]] However, the Minister of Justice said in court that she wanted to engage in the debate on the extremism of the right, and for her it was a forbidden greeting. What consequences did this Tweet have for the young man? – He was exposed to the media and the Internet for days. [[Interlocutors Tomaselli and Krisper.]] It was the accusation of a criminal act that came to the public who could have taken him to prison. But he was not a protected MP in contrast to the causer of this shitstorm, to which he was exposed; there was no club behind him, and he had no national council. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Stögmüller and Mr Tomaselli.]] I'd say even this tweet was hate on the net, so to speak. It was also a “distant phenomenon of our time”, as the Chancellor of the Federal Republic expresses it, it was also a dissociating act, as the current vice chancellor expresses it. It's all not just one direction. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] The question is how to deal with this “phantom of our time. ” If we also deal with this with a little insight and self-reflection – especially we political officials must be careful; I hope that even if the Minister of Justice now has a state-bearing role, will we put sensible measures into criminal law, or do we use such a discussion about hatred on the network to get rid of unloving critics and oppositionists? [[Abg. Easy: So this is a bad speech!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller]] Is this an opportunity to intervene in freedom of expression, freedom of association and to go towards the right of expression and thought? This brings me to a focus of the government programme, which has been debated a little shamefully here today – for good reason. Under the title Fighting Right-wing Extremism, measures are hidden that are incredible. I say: alleged right-wing extremism, because if the measures are really directed against extremism in all directions, then that is perfectly in order and we are sure in most cases, because extremism is if you are prepared to implement anti-state objectives by force. But here, however, the right and right-wing extreme is mixed, and it is only about this when it comes to certain persons – very often by liberal or other right-wing activists – because there are also right activists and not only left-wing. [[Abg. Stögmüller: You are often involved, that is true, yes!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] Finally, the whole thing means: Whoever sees migration and its effects, many of its effects, critically, who sees parallel societies critically, who expresses themselves Islam critically, is here already, if it is popular, classified as being far-right. And there are measures that I think are very, very worrying, such as measures, ‘to associations, to spread the anti-state idea’ – as said: Thoughtful – “to fight effectively”. However, there are not radical mosques and their Imams, which really want to replace our constitution with Sharia or which have a fundamental problem with our understanding of equality between men and women, but for example a right activist group is cited, which is critical of migration and Islam – as well as the ÖVP in many parts. The following are mentioned: ‘Action plan against right-wing extremism’; ‘enlargement of school workshops [...] on the prevention of right-wing extremism’; “Consultation and Enlightenment” on new rights and right-wing extremism; “Mobile competence centre against right-wing extremism” – I imagine this a bit as mobile old and nursing care; you drive from house to house and look everywhere for right-wing extremism – [[Calls for Greens]] ‘Information and education campaign against right-wing extremism and group-related anti-humanity’; ‘Development of a [...] Internet platform on information on right-wing extremism’; ‘Calling an annual coordination committee [...] to combat right-wing extremism’; ‘Focus of right-wing extremism prevention’. [[Call the Greens:Yes!]] [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Stögmüller: Yes, we do!]] [[Further calls to the Greens:Yes!]] As I said, when it really comes to right-wing extremism and, above all, extremism in all directions, we are involved. It is not even true here that one wants to fight extremism in all directions, but it is only about one, but not about real extremism, but about right positions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light snow]] These are measures that are really most effective in the fundamental rights of freedom of expression, association and assembly. Because of this one-sidedness, which in my opinion almost already has a bit of pathological traits, I would speak of group-related anti-humanity, and I very much hope that these measures will not be taken. It cannot be your serious that such restrictions on the fundamental rights of citizens, who may have critical but acceptable positions, come, and I very much hope that our Federal President as head of state will never allow such a thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10930	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Michael Hammer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10954	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we are discussing today the government programme of the new turquoise-green government, and several previous speakers have already said that these are, of course, two very different parties, which have different approaches, especially in the security field, and I would like to refer to this area. However, the success of this government programme and of this government is – and this has already been adopted several times – that it is not possible to reduce itself to a minimum consensus in all thematic areas, but to involve everyone in their core competences accordingly. For the Austrian People's Party, of course, the area of security, internal security, but also the defence of the state, is a very essential point, and therefore this programme has a very clear manuscript, especially in the field of national defence, and is committed to strong national defence, a strong Austrian federal army. I believe that this is crucial for the security of the citizens of our country. [[Congratulations to the ÖVP and to Mr Ernst-Dziedzic and Mr Litschauer.]] We have, I believe, managed to link a really good programme to the area of disaster protection and defence; we can really handle the challenges of the next few years as best we can with this programme. It is not to be rejected by hand: At the start of the office of the Federal Minister for Defence in the Ministry of Defense, the divorced Federal Minister, Starlinger, congratulated this government programme and clearly said that it covers the most essential areas and is a good basis for the Austrian Federal Army to develop the state defense well in the next few years. I think that is a quality award of this government programme by an independent body. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] To our former coalition partner, the FPÖ: There was a press release of you this week, whose headline was: It's going downhill with the federal army. On the other hand, two thirds of the text deals with this: that the government programme of the last government has been written down more or less. I think you have to make a very slow decision: either written down or insufficient, both are not going, it is somehow not completely soluble. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the Greens.]] But you must clarify this among yourselves. However, the fact is – and this is the reason – that we, as the Austrian People's Party, naturally want to continue this path that we have taken for the defence of the country, and that is why many things that are necessary have therefore also been renegotiated in this programme from the programme of the last government. As Mrs Bundesminister took office in a very successful and clear speech, there was a steep and difficult path in front of us regarding the Austrian army. I believe that this is the case, it has been set out in the state report of the Federal Government. I can already say towards SPÖ and FPÖ: You've been running the defence department for almost the last 20 years. You have laid the foundation that the path must now be so steep. We will now take this steep and difficult path with our Mrs. Federal Minister, who has really answered it very clearly and precisely, and will lead the Austrian Federal Army into a good future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] It is relatively easy for a speaker to quote in a speech essentially only the passages of the government programme and thus make quite clear statements. I would like to present some of these contents here. This program includes a commitment to a modern, versatile federal army. It is necessary to ensure - and this also the budgetary situation regarding the spite of all unknowings - that sufficient financial, human and material resources are provided. This, of course, also means appropriate procurement and budget resources. We are committed to a comprehensive state defense, to the federal army as a security guarantee and as a strategic reserve of the Republic, and – that is clear and that must be pursued further – we want to restore the constitutional state of the Federal Government. This also means strengthening and expanding the militia, appropriate exercises and equipment for the militia. Since many places it is also said that capacity and resources would go down: It is clearly contained in this programme that we want to develop and strengthen the core competences of the Austrian federal government, but also to make important new priorities – in the ABC defense, in the drone defense, in the fight against cyber threats. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] We are experiencing it these days in the Ministries, which are the dangers. Of course, we also want to strengthen the protection of disasters accordingly – the natural hazards are virulent. That's where the Austrian federal army makes a significant contribution. Above all, it is about strengthening the resilience of the Republic, with security islands, with a security zone model, so that we are also adequately equipped for these crisis cases. We also want to focus on attracting the ground defense service and introduce partiality, because it is not fair that many are not used to any state service due to small restrictions – this is an important contribution. Furthermore – as this is already panic-likely spread everywhere – this government programme includes a commitment to active and passive airspace surveillance, because this is also important for a neutral country. Of course, we want and will continue to make the contribution of the Austrian Federal Government to international peacekeeping operations abroad. In this respect, we have a high reputation. I think we've got a great government program. The Federal Minister is doing this with great force. She has already received the best feedback in the last few days because she has simply sent clear messages. Mrs. Federal Minister, we are looking forward to working with you! Parliament has always been committed to the Austrian federal army. You've got us at your side, and we're looking forward to working together.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e11067	Next speaker: Mr Michael Bernhard. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e11091	Ladies and gentlemen, Appreciate Seers and Advisors! - I'll be right back to the tree. [[The speaker presents a high-growth, green potted plant next to the speaker's console.]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Frecher Zünsler on it?]] By the way, this is a Thuje, also called the Life Tree. This tree is intended to express our confidence in the current environmental and climate programme, because when we look into this programme, we actually see a number of urgently needed measures – measures that are also in line with our vision that we have as NEOS of a future that is almost emission-free, in which the Republic of Austria is climate-neutral, in which our children grow up in a clean air, in a restored nature and in an environment that will simply be the next dimension of our social cohabitation. There are things like the expansion of renewable energy, measures in public transport and the role model of the public sector, that is, things that we as NEOS have often called for. Of course, we will need more energy efficiency, as is also the case in the government programme, but also a different form of energy generation. When we gain energy domestically and do not import, we hit several flies with one flap: We do not give up our foreign exchange in countries that are more than questionable and, at least, not liberal democracies, but we also create new domestic jobs, new innovations, new ideas, new fields of activity for the economy. In the same way, we think that we should finally take greater steps in the area of building renovation. This is also an essential point in progressing in Austria to further strengthen the quality of life of the people in our country; and another long-term demand from us NEOS, namely mandatory climate check, is also found in the government programme. All of this in summary shows that people were at work who understood the craftsmanship and – at least in the approach – I would say share our vision. There where light is, however, is also shadow, which is not so good for this little tree. [[look at the potting plant next to the speaker's console]] Obviously, one of the two government parties is on the brake pedal when it comes to ecologizing the tax reform. As NEOS during the National Council election, we have already presented a proposal that we could actually have been implementing from 2020 onwards, that is, this year. Every year the ecologicalisation is later on is painful. It's totally banal: If you want to be finished by 2040 and have less years of time, then the curve is steeper when saving. So it would be social to start earlier. It would be more effective for the economy because it is more planned, and there is also no reason to wait two years, because there are a whole series of concepts that are on the table, and there are over 60 states in the world that have a CO2 tax. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Another important requirement is also missing in the government programme, namely the reduction of environmentally harmful subsidies. We are now investing billions in the development of environmental and climate protection and are investing billions at the same time in order to destroy the environment. That's just stupid. If we want to provide a service to nature, we must first reduce subsidies and then use funds where they continue to be necessary. This also called for a green party in the past. A confession to this would have been urgently needed. I know that individual measures are aimed at ecologizing, but a clear commitment to the reduction of all environmentally harmful subsidies is not included. I would like to address two points in the near future. One is the topic of spatial planning: It is true that Austria is European champion in the area sealing. We are also European champions in terms of municipal costs. This is neither ecological nor economic. There should have been more. This was a shift of competence from the communities to the countries, also closer to the Federation. It is clear to me that there was a mayor party that probably slowed down, but that is not enough for ecology. One last and equally important point, perhaps the most important point of all, is financing. I read the government program, and I was happy about it. There are almost 50 pages of 326 – so many have never been in Austria, and I think that even in Europe not often. However, there have already been programmes to finance environmental and nature conservation as well as climate protection. That's not what this program says. We shall measure this government by the way it adopts this budget, and by whether what is promised, namely, no new debt, is actually implemented, even at the same time as climate change is being protected. Mrs Minister, my greatest appreciation! We have great confidence – something advance is there – that this task will succeed. We will accompany this process constructively and critically. I would now like to give you a tree of life which, on the one hand, should actually remind you of what is ahead of us a big project, on the other hand, but on the other hand, it should also be a reminder that progressive climate protection cannot be bought with the abandonment of fundamental and human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e11153	Mrs Elisabeth Götze has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e11177	Mr President. Dear Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated visitors – so many are not here now! Dear audience at home in front of the screens! I am very pleased to be able to give my first speech here on a subject that is very important to me. I have the number 315 900 here, and you might now ask yourself what this is. [[Keeping a sheet with the label ‘315,900’ in height]] This is the number of people in Austria who work as an individual company. They all know them: At my home, in my home place, this is the hairdresser, in the neighboring village of the Schuster; there are many entrepreneurs who offer consultations, personal assistance, care services or are traded. So it is those who are responsible for regional, local or, to a large extent, especially in the country, but certainly also in the city, that are very valuable to us, and provide great value added – 8 billion euros gross per year. More and more entrepreneurs are becoming individuals. Currently, according to the Chamber of Commerce, 60 percent of companies are individuals, 80 percent of them make up the head office and about one fifth work from home. I think you all know those people who do this with high self- motivation, but also with many of the framework conditions and have difficulties. Therefore, the chapter dealing with SMEs and the EPC is an important part of the government programme. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and Members, Mr Kopf, Mr Salzmann and Mr Tashner.]] It focuses on legal certainty, debureaucratisation and simplification. I would like to take three of the many points we want to address: The first is the so-called profit return. Simply put, that means, a year in which I earn a lot, is calculated against years in which I earn less. So there is a smoothing, as is already the case with artists. Secondly, work space should be more easily removable. Many work at home, at present cannot write down this workspace because it is not exclusively used professionally; we want to simplify it. Thirdly, it is about social security, both in the initial phase and over the duration of work. From my point of view, these are very important measures to give these people, who, for Austria, are so valuable to all of us, appreciate and facilitate their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e11225	Mr Rainer Wimmer spoke. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e11250	Mr President. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I was a little surprised in the last three, four days when I heard that the Federal Chancellor said that the most important task of the Federal Government was obviously the abolition of the hacker regime. I also did not know that this is now the main issue, because I can remember that at the third reading of this law in September, the ÖVP voted in this respect. That was a unanimous decision. [[Abg. Loacker: They didn't have that overrun!]] – I therefore did not believe that you fell over so quickly, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. In reality, however, we need not be surprised, because when it comes to increasing workers when it comes to removing workers, the EIAP is at the forefront of the first line, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Whether that was the 12-hour day, whether it was the downrolling of the territorial health phone, whether it was the removal and staging of the evangelical holiday – it's always the same: When it comes to the fact that workers come under the wheels, it shows them very hard, and that is fatal and not to accept. But what is it about? – It is simply about people not being punished if they have worked for so long. That is why I believe that this is such an important point for us. He's very important, dear friends. [[Abg. Loacker: That's not a union meeting, they're not just friends!]] You will notice or notice that commissions will be sent to the race: The Pensions Commission – still nice – tells us that everything is not going to work, that it is far too expensive that it doesn't work. Strangely, ladies and gentlemen, who now spend their well-padded retirement, but not with 1 400 euros of pension, but – there's something else – have occurred without deposits and perhaps also at 62 years of age. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Please go, this is one of you!]] This is not fair and we point it out. Of course, the hackler scheme costs money, ladies and gentlemen, because nothing is going to happen, but if you look at the government programme, you can see that the money will be spent with full hands anyway: The reduction in the cost – has already been addressed x-times today – i.e. 1.5 billion euros per year, every year, the big companies – 4,000 people affected – are being beaten up, the SMEs are getting out empty. That's the 50-fold of hacker control. The speculation tax – EUR 400 million – will be abolished, which is the 13-fold of the hacker scheme. [[Abg. Loacker: This is not necessary!]] Last year, with the reduction of VAT on overnight stays, you quickly made 120 million euros easy for tourism – 120 million euros per year. This means that there is always money, but when it comes to workers, of course there is nothing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What is really cynical, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, is that the sparkling wine tax should now fall. This is about the same amount as the hacker scheme, about 25 million euros. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Please, never go to life!]] It's just cynical! [[Abg. Loacker: The education system has failed because you...!]] In reality, you don't have a generator: To set sparkling wine drinkers on tax-free and to join workers. But you will still feel it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have believed that if Mr Strasser comes out now, he will explain a little about the new privileges of the big farmers. [[Calls and calls between representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ]] We have not heard a word from you. It's really interesting: The fictitious exodus is expected to take place, the abolition of the solo surcharge will take place, the extension of the base will be zero and young farmers will in the future receive pension contributions up to 27. ==References====External links== And all of this, ladies and gentlemen, at a farm pension which is already financed by the tax by 80 percent anyway, because this does not go out in the back and in the front. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Strasser]] This simply does not belong to the fact that in times when workers are faced with, on the other hand, something is made up in the silent chamber and new privileges are created again. There will be a sample of nails, Mr. Federal Minister for Social Affairs, when it comes to – and where we need to look carefully – whether as greens you are making the climber for the abolition of the hacker regime. I think you have a very, very big responsibility. Of course, during the negotiations – but I'm not bad at all – you had to show up a bit elastic, bow down a bit, otherwise you wouldn't sit on the government bench today, but I'm absolutely convinced of it and I trust you haven't given up the social conscience on the wardrobe. Therefore a real request and a request to the Greens: In the abolition of the hacker regulation, don't make the climber for the ÖVP, dear friends! Please, don't let me down the workers!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e11398	Mr Loacker spoke in favour of an actual correction. . You are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e11422	Mr President. Mr Wimmer has claimed that the cost of this discount-free early pension is as much as the volume of the sparkling wine tax. I'm actually correcting: The sparkling wine tax in the year, each year, amounts to 2.5 million euros and the discount-free early pension according to the Ministry of Finance, 50 million euros per year, which goes into retirement, i.e.: 50 million in the first year, 100 million in the second year, 150 million in the third year. [[Call the ÖVP:Genau!]] With an average pension period of 25 years, we are well over a billion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e11454	Mrs Mag. Michaela Steinacker. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e11478	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Citizens' values! Over the past few weeks and months, we have developed and designed a very, very good and forward-looking government programme for Austria, which combines the best of both worlds. Let me briefly highlight the judicial programme, because Austrian justice guarantees legal certainty and legal peace and allows the confidence of citizens in the rule of law to be so great. In this awareness of the trend-setting government programme, we have given this justice a weighty space. I have visited courts, prosecutors and judicial institutions in summer; I am grateful to the Presidents of the Court, the judges, the prosecutors, the lawyers and, of course, also to the judicial guards, the officials who have entered into a very open dialogue and who have reported on their problems. We have taken this valuable information with us in our discussions about our government program and many of it – thank God! - can be taken into account. It's quite clear: We confess to a sufficiently funded and sufficiently humane justice. This justice must go a long way, namely, a wide range of modernisation, digitisation. – Since thanks also to all those who are willing to take this modern and forward-looking path. Key points of this, briefly addressed: Austria-wide telephone service and regional judicial service center. These are intended to give citizens access to the To facilitate justice. But justice is not only committed to being decision-makers in proceedings, it is also a service provider for the citizens of our country. Our coalition partner and we were quickly clear: We want to promote the permissiveness of related occupations, of judges, prosecutors, but also between administrative jurisdiction and jurisdiction. We also attach great importance to better training: therefore extending the duration of the court practice to nine months. The quality of expert advice needs to be improved: therefore also the consideration of including internal experts, authority experts, and, of course, the approach to think about the tariffs and payment of experts in this area. We are strengthening the fight against corruption, we are calling for anti-Semitism, organized tow, organized blackmail and illegal gambling. We are committed to a modern execution of penalties and measures – both in the organisation and in the case of necessary structural measures. For the third security column of Austria – as I always mention it – the judicial guard, we have planned measures that will really facilitate the daily work of these people and create better framework conditions. In corporate law, in the case of business start-ups, we are for further simplifications and accelerations. Capital companies should be able to act more flexible in the future, especially if they are start-ups or family companies. The rules for private foundations are important to us. We do not want these foundations to migrate abroad, but that they have a good chance here in Austria and strengthen our economic location. The company book and the base book are very important to me, a very large asset of Austria for a stable economic location. We need to link the digital worlds of justice and the economy to the best. The topic of living very briefly: I welcome the agreed measures to ecologize, reconstitution and reconstitution in residential construction. The eco-social economy is extremely important in the area of housing and office buildings; Keywords climate change. Let's rethink! We evaluate green areas, ecological cooling systems or also the arrangements for electric cars! We will devote ourselves to the whole complex and complicated chapter of housing law in a parliamentary housing survey. Dialogue forums will also show good new ways with the involvement of the most diverse stakeholders. Mrs. Justice Minister, dear Alma! First of all: No one has deserved hatred on the net – and you have not. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, Greens and NEOS.]] In the government negotiations, I have been able to get to know you as a prudent lawyer, as a sympathetic person, who has treated his visas respectfully, but also hard and cordially. In this sense you have also brought excellent experts to your side; you have not only listened to your experts but also received our arguments well. I would like to thank you in every way for this. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I think, on this basis, that the area under your leadership is going to be a good future. As a judicial speaker of the ÖVP, I would like to make every effort to: by some of the promised justices well positioned to make healthy and strong. - Thank you. Because of responsibility for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e11569	Mr Robert Laimer has spoken on an actual amendment. – You know the rules on this. Here you go, deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e11597	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate government representatives, government representatives! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make an actual correction on Mr Hammer's statements concerning Austrian federal army. Mr Hammer said that the SPÖ had been responsible for the Austrian army for the last 20 years. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: I didn't say!]] – This statement is incorrect. Especially in the Schüssel era, the German army has come into a massive financial disrepute through the purchase of the wicked Eurofighters. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: This is not an actual correction!]] [[Abg. Haubner: This is a speech!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] With the FPÖ, the ÖVP had entered the department of defence until 2006. That doesn't work out. 20 years SPÖ defence resort. By the way, part of the motorized fleet is still -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e11656	Mr President, I must draw your attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, namely, to the facts. You did that because you pointed out the 20 years. You'd have to correct how long you were actually responsible. That would actually be the content of the actual correction. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e11680	And in the 1970s, the defense budget was 1.1 percent of GDP, correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e11707	Mr Hannes Amesbauer has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e11728	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Yes, today's day with the presentation of the new Federal Government in Parliament is, of course, a painful day for a sincere patriot, as this green left-wing force is sitting in the Federal Government and also ensuring parliamentary majority voting here. We know the Austrian image and the picture of the home of the Greens to the satisfaction. We know statements and activities, above all the liberal youth organisations. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] [[Call to the Greens:Freedom!]] I remind you: Take a flag for your Gaggerl, with which the Austrian flag is huddled, still garnishes with such statements as: “Whoever loves Austria must be shit!” – That’s not mine now, that’s the Green Youth who put it. [[Abg. Stögmüller: What? That's what the liberals say?]] These people now have responsibility for Austria. This is a painful situation for every sincere Austrian, ladies and gentlemen! This has not deserved our country either. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Stögmüller: Very behavioral!]] Now we come to this declaration of government, which, in truth, if one has listened to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, was only an idea of individuals; and to Mr Vice-Chancellor: It's not that easy to sum up what he gave of himself – but if you read the government program, you've actually packed a lot of hot air on 326 pages. It's about a few things. As a security spokesperson of my party, I would like to refer to the areas of internal security, migration and asylum in particular. There are some things inside that we like that could come from the spring of Herbert Kickl and have also been taken over literally in large parts. I cannot imagine, however, that this promised path will be implemented in this way. What ÖVP has practiced there is in fact the biggest suffrage I can remember. It has promised people a continuation of the middle-right course and is now putting itself in the coalition bed with the Greens. The ÖVP promises to secure the boundaries exactly with those coalition partners, who were standing in the front row among the welcome clothes, border openers and teddy bearers in 2015 and who were in the front row. [[Abg. Stögmüller: They were with the identities...!]] This cannot be assumed in this form. [[Abg. Stögmüller: With you it is the torch carriers of the identities!]] What, Mr President, is also particularly remarkable – and why I do not think for a second that this strict migration and asylum policy is being implemented on the spot and on the spot –: [[towards Abg. Stögmüller]] You've had a exit clause written in. That is, if you are not ideological in your strange world view, the ÖVP can look for other majorities. This has never been the case in a coalition agreement. By the way, there has never been such a concentration of power on the part of the ÖVP. It is also the occupation of the Ministries, the summary of the services has already been addressed, and there is a two-dimensional measure of policy and public media representation. What kind of cry did the freedom ministers Kickl and Kunasek have in store for the interior and defence resort? [[Abg. Stögmüller: You see what came out!]] These resorts are now equally in the hands of a party. At that time, there was the great uproar: All the armed forces of this republic, all the intelligence services are in the hands of a party!, but the difference was that there was a reporting duty to the Federal Chancellor, and he was known by another party at the time, and there was also a State Secretary in the Interior. You've been baffling it, you have planted the State Secretary of State for any matter in the Ministry of Culture. So there has never been such a negotiation failure! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, to be secure – this is also such an exciting topic –: We remember that there are two different measures in society: for example, when Herbert Kickl was right in his responsibility as Minister of the Interior after several crimes, for example in Dornbirn, when a Turkish citizen who had been banned from residing in Austria was cold-blooded by a chief of the government, he proposed and launched this detention. There was a big scream: There can be no such thing!, especially from the side of the then non-parliamentary Greens, although we also knew at that time that the European Union's reception directives allow this and that there is already this in 15 European countries. [[Abg. Stögmüller: We were still in the Federal Council!]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] We now give you the opportunity – especially the ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, but also the Greens here in the ranks – to stand on the coalition program. Let's try the nail. [[Interlocutors Ernst-Dziedzic and Stögmüller.]] – Mr colleague, your constant calls on television are unfortunately listening or thank God no man, the spectators in front of the television screens do not have to do so, and I am not really interested in it either. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] Well, now the nail sample for the new, great coalition will follow, and we will see how seriously you mean it in the field of security for your own population. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you do not agree with this request, you have already broken the coalition agreement today and have not complied with the government programme. The Austrians will observe this as closely as we are the strongest, most reliable and only truly patriotic opposition in this country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] [[13:54]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e11963	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and under negotiation. Mr Hermann Weratschnig has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e11987	Mr President. Dear Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators! The Federal Government today presents the most ambitious environmental, climate and energy programme Austria has ever seen. As far as transport is concerned, we know that there is a need for action, especially in transport, the distance to climate change target in 2030 has increased by about a third in the last five years. At present, as far as climate protection is concerned, we are in place in 19th place in Europe. There's a lot to do here, because it needs an ambitious environmental and climate policy. However, climate protection on the paper also needs the respective real actions, and I invite that we start with them. Let us make the important environmental protection, the important climate protection together! I call for a national shoulder closure that is necessary and that can go out of Parliament! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] A central message has already been addressed today, that is the Austrian ticket. 1-2-3, Austria is there! The Austrian ticket for train and bus: Out with the traffic jam, the traffic jam's over! This objective is realistic with the Austrian ticket if we work together with all the federal states to take this effort to cope with this effort and to offer a ticket for the Austrians in the future. We have demonstrated this with the Government Convention. There's no gap. [[Abg. Worm: In Tyrol already, but in Tyrol already!]] – Should someone be in a line like National Councillor Peter Wurmand his colleagues: Member of Parliament, we are making the heads, we are helping you out of your split, which you have made in Austria itself. You have to be aware of that once. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mobility is a basic need and therefore a challenge that we should face. With an open bill for the constituency centres and an open space for regional transport, we are creating a boost, and we also need this push from Parliament, together with the Federal Government. Another point: the issue of transit problem. Fighting the transit problem is not just a Tyrolean issue, but it is a need to bring about a European and an Austrian need to reverse mobility. Avoiding, reducing and shifting are the objectives of the government programme. We will work on these concrete points – concrete points! – the Government Convention will also be implemented: more and tighter controls on animal transport, no gigaliners, no cost-truth on the road and on the rail, the ecologicalisation of the truck toll system, no new transit routes – and I mean, in all federal states – no tank tourism. We stand for a dosage where it stands, and we stand for the need for necessary driving bans. Ladies and gentlemen, the next stop is: Because of responsibility for Austria. – The train is ready, the train leaves soon, all here have a valid ticket for the next five years. If we drive together, let's go on this common goal and get on the journey! The coursebook is available, and we will not be able to wait for all the future honourable Members. But one thing is clear: We will take all the people here in this country, no one will stay on the track. [[Abg. Worm:... in Tirol!]] - Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e12052	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gerald Loacker. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e12076	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Today the Government Declaration takes place, and of the four members of the government who have spoken, one is still there – good. The Austrians are getting older and older, we are living longer and longer. That's nice. The government of Kurz I had a long-term budget forecast prepared by the Minister of Finance at that time. This forecast shows a massive cost increase in all areas affected by this rising life expectancy, namely health, care and pensions. Well, what does the government program say about health, care and pensions? – Many spectators certainly already have access to the SPÖ slogan: The pensions are safe!, made funny, but that was a little bit against what is now in the government program: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kucharovich]] “The Austrian pension system is characterised by security and clarity.” – Ha! Security and clarity? - Well, there's no need for reform. But this is different, namely the OECD, the International Monetary Fund, the EU Commission and, in fact, all the well-known experts. The largest budget block, the pensions, are a veritable zero number in this government program. This zero number goes through the entire social policy in the government programme, such as in the case of minimum security. It now remains completely different with its nine national systems, and the side-by-side of emergency aid and minimum security remains. A person who wants social security needs to go to two authorities to get social security once. The Court of Auditors has long called for a reform – also here: Missal. Many words with little substance we read about the care: It is intended to be set up as its own branch in social security. - Oh, great! In addition to costs, care is now to be financed in the payment procedure. There is nothing to be seen about the idea that each generation should pay for the costs of its own care, that one should make a larger rework in the long term. The government imposes the full burden on the young generation of this demographic problem. Just like you did with the pensions, you can do it now in the care – exactly the same. The largest budget area, social policy, is therefore free of answers to the essential questions of the future. That's what I'm asking myself: What would have been different if the SPÖ were to sit in the government? What would be different about social policy? - Nothing, nothing! [[Abg. Easy: Everything!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Matznetter and Mr Stögmüller.]] It does not look better in health policy. Emphasis is only on the intention of finally creating the specialist status for general medical professionals, but on how primary care comes into play, how we redimensional the oversized hospital sector: nothing at all! Financing the health care from a single source: nothing at all! Different classes of insured persons will continue to exist: The wood class is insured in the ÖGK, the service providers are in the civil service insurance system and the luxury class is insured in the 15 health care institutions of the countries and municipalities. There is nothing left, not even the intention to examine or evaluate something in this area. There too, the question arises: What would be different about health policy if SPÖ were in government? - Nothing! [[Intervocations by the Deputies Matznetter and Worm.]] So, Minister, as Rudi Anschober, you stand there in a beautiful tradition as a follow-up of Happy Rudi Hundstorfer. This is what we are going through, and then we will also have good conversations in the Committee. A small correction: I said earlier that the sect tax is 2.5 million euros. It actually amounts to 23 million euros a year, but this is still far less than the hacker scheme that costs more than 1 billion euros if it is fully developed.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e12155	The next speaker is Mr Karlheinz Head. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e12179	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, spectators! We all know that the location determines the position many times. That is quite legitimate. It is also legitimate that, in support of its position, one chooses from a wealth of arguments those arguments which seem to support one’s position just as one’s own. That may be legitimate. [[Abg. Worm: Near!]] But it is not legitimate to try to underline one's own position with untruths. Mr Loacker has just transferred Mr Wimmer to such a one, but it is also not appropriate to correct himself or the number. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] This does not change the fact that it was a gross untruth when Mr Wimmer tried to support a point of view here, which is not to be kept with facts. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Scherak on his report.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the last few hours there has been a massive attempt, above all, on the part of two opposition parties, to demonstrate the tax policy that is found in this government programme as a policy for millionaires and corporations. [[Call the SPÖ: Is it too!]] I think that reducing lower income tax rates as such is probably the most reprehensible thing there is. This is not a programme for millionaires, as well as the promotion of profit participation for employees of a company, which can still be limited to 3 000 euros, probably hardly a programme for millionaires and empires, and the increase in the family bonus from 1,500 to 1 750 euros is quite wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a programme for tax-paying workers, especially for those with low and medium incomes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] Also, the reduction of corporate tax, i.e. a tax on profits not collected in a company – not profits paid to the owners; no, not profits taken! – as a programme for corporations and millionaires, it is simple and simply malicious. [[Abg. Easy:... nobody wants this tax!]] 80 percent, ladies and gentlemen, the so-called capital companies – most of them GesmbHs – have less than 20 employees. In trade, for example, where we have 30 000 such cases, this tax relief will on average amount to just under 8 000 euros. For the 15 000 companies on construction, on average, it will make up just under 4,000 euros – so where is the programme for rich people and millionaires? [[Abg. Matznetter:... 2.6 million...!]] This is a programme for the medium-sized and small-structured Austrian economy, which on the one hand consists of a large part – 80 percent – of personal companies and 20 percent of capital companies. Only: The name "capital company" should not lead you to not only suspect capitalists, millionaires and empires behind it, but to call them such! These are, as has been said, companies with usually fewer than 20 employees, but they secure many jobs in Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the NEOS.]] Even the capital income tax exemption, which is now intended for price gains, is not a programme for speculators – the opposite is the case! [[Abg. Schellhorn: They don't understand that!]] The exact opposite is the case! We want to make a distinction between whether people actually make their savings available to businesses for business purposes, whether they participate through share purchases, for example, but not speculatively, by putting it in, taking it out with profit, where else they plug back in and take it out – no! – but by leaving it there and allowing companies to work to create jobs and prosperity. So it is the opposite of supporting speculators, and that is why we will do the same. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Haubner: Exactly!]] The price of CO2 in the government programme, in which all of us will still depend on expertise, is certainly a major challenge. For me too, as a representative of the economy and as an entrepreneur, this is a certain challenge. However, we will succeed in – and we will have to – clamp – and we will be able to achieve with this measure the necessary transformation of our personal life, but also our economy step by step through the incentive effect of such a system and not to form it as a displacement program of companies from Austria. We will succeed, but it's a huge challenge, I admit. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: Liberation for working, tax-paying people is not a programme for rich people and millionaires, which is a contribution to fairness and performance justice. Business discharges are job-creating investments. This is a strengthening of our businesses in competition and thus a strengthening of employment. The strengthening of the capital market is also nothing but the one-piece independent of companies in Austria from the only source of funding so far, if you look away from equity, namely from the banks. You can only support that. That is, ladies and gentlemen: Whoever loves his home doesn't split them! We have already heard this sentence from the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, and we have heard it from others. To spread untruths about tax plans of this government, just to split, that is objectionable. [[Complaint and bravado with the ÖVP and congratulation with the Greens.]] To suggest to the hard-working and tax-paying people in this country that this government would do everything and everyone just to help a few rich people is objectionable. I tried to disprove that, and I think I did quite well. [[Abg. Krainer: Not successful!]] That is to say, ladies and gentlemen, those who are serious about the responsibility for Austria – and this applies to all of us, whether opposition or government party, all of us bear responsibility – should also do one thing, namely to continue our apostrophic path of a balanced budget for the next few years, just as we have done in recent years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e12357	Mrs Mag.a Andrea Kuntzl is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e12386	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank, I wish you all the best for your responsible work in the next few years! I am looking forward to a successful cooperation in the sense of good solutions for the people of our country. I was very pleased to hear the speeches, including the speech by the Federal Chancellor – the short speech by the Federal Chancellor – that there should again be a respectful relationship with Parliament. This would be very important in the sense of our democracy. We now have a cooling-up phase by the transitional government behind us, in which material discussions have taken place, but before that we have had a phase of refusal of dialogue, of the ghetto, of polemics from the government bank. I think it would be good to return to a different style, to the old, to the usual style in this House, namely to an objective debate, especially from the government side, in order to be able to work accordingly on common and good solutions. We are discussing the government programme today. Comments from various media read from the assessment that things that were important to the EIA are very concrete in the government programme, that they are well-connected and that things that were less important or not so important are less specifically defined in the government programme, that there are targets there, that the target sizes are missing, that the date of implementation is missing. Mr Vice-Chancellor, even with meaningful reading – I have considered this – one has to say that this assessment is unfortunately very correct, unfortunately, especially in areas that are particularly important to us, in areas where social justice is concerned. The government programme provides important measures – concrete and inconsistency – on climate protection issues. This is very welcome to underline very much, because it is about all of our livelihoods, but not only the basis of life, but also the existence of people in our country, all of them in this country, it is important to ensure. That's something we can't play against each other. A little bit of the government programme is going through a thought which I would like to highlight in a small example, but which shows the danger posed by many chapters: In the chapter Education, it is stated that food should be organic in kindergartens and schools in the future – that is good, we all want our children to be nourished in health – but it was forgotten to ensure that all children have a warm lunch, that there is a free lunch for all children whose parents cannot afford it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is a good example of the fact that we must not play things against each other and must not forget the social dimension that has important concerns. I would like to give a second example: the family bonus. The family bonus is a good thing. It is basically good when young families with children are under the arms and also financially helped. In the present form, however, the family bonus has gotten a lot from our point of view, that those families, those parents who earn more, earn much, and that those parents who don't have anything or earn little, get nothing or little. This is paradoxical from our point of view, because in the family policy in Austria In the last decades, the principle has always been that every child should be equal in value. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Every child should be equal in value, and we also have and support, which will help them more that need it. In other words, from our point of view there would be an urgent need for improvement. Changes in the government programme are planned, but exactly in line with the logic that those who already get a lot more and those who get little or nothing get a bit more or nothing more. Our aim should be to change the fact that every child is worth the same amount that every family with small children gets the same amount. Each family should benefit from the family bonus to the same extent, EUR 1 750 for each family. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! The government programme actually provides for large tax gifts for those who have a lot: the top tax rate for income is to be removed over one million; the cost-disbursement for large companies – 1.5 billion tax gifts; that is what you can calculate, that is. This service for families in our country with small children is financeable, you only need to rework a little. Remembering that the social question must not be forgotten even in the coming years is our task as the strongest opposition party. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[14:18]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e12555	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, it is properly put in place and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Mag.a Meri Disoski. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e12582	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As a woman's spokesperson, let me say the following: Women's policy is equality policy. We Greens want equality and equal opportunities in all areas of society, for women of all ages. We stand for a policy that creates social conditions with clear legal instruments, so that women and men can live free of blinds, free from pressure, free from fear. We stand for a policy that makes women and men equally economically independent, allows a life free of violence and guarantees equal social participation. With this attitude we make policy. This attitude is reflected in the current government programme, as the following italic flashlights will illustrate: The Federal Government is taking measures to increase women's income. We hope that the closure of the Genderpaygap and the Pension Gap will come a big and very important step closer. The budget for women and equality is substantially increased, for the first time since 2011. In addition, the Istanbul Convention will be implemented, victim protection facilities, violence centres and intervention agencies will be expanded. We thereby give priority to the protection of violence and also to the prevention of violence which they deserve, namely, the highest. - And that's good. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Austria will participate, ladies and gentlemen, in the time-use study of the EU Statistical Office Eurostat. Why is that important? – Because this study makes the economic value of unpaid work visible and thus is a fundamental prerequisite for fact-based equality policy, to which this Federal Government acknowledges itself. The Federal Government is also committed to a 40 percent female ratio in each Supervisory Board of companies in public hands. An upsizing ban will be introduced. We lower the turnover tax on menstrual products such as tampons and binders, because menstruation is not a luxury, nor should it be a lucrative tax business for the female population. Not least, this federal government is also in favour of the fight, we have already talked a lot about it today, against hatred on the net. Girls and women are disproportionately affected. We have also observed this on the basis of the ominous anti-Muslim, racist and sexist social media het campaign against Minister of Justice Alma Zadić; and it is good that a comprehensive package of measures is being launched on the other hand. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I come to the conclusion: You all know that at the end of a written government programme is the beginning of actual work. Now it is about implementing the measures that will lead to more wage justice, which will lead to more pension justice and which will also ensure a better reconciliation of careers and family life. For this, we Greens have always In future, we will also work together with the coalition partner in the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e12642	Mr Reinhard Eugen Bösch. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e12667	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! In the short term, I would like to highlight the area of national defence in the government programme of the Federal Government which is now in office. Michael Hammer has already explained a lot about this subject. In fact, there and there there is a common ground to which we are very happy to confess. This government programme includes many right things, such as the social improvement for soldiers, the rehabilitation of the barracks, the promotion of the basic defence service, the improvement and efficiency in the provision of health care, the further development of the core competences of the Austrian federal army, the security of assistance services, meaningful foreign operations, the re-habilitation of helicopters, the safeguarding of airspace surveillance and the establishment of security islands. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, these are essentially objectives that we, as a liberal, agreed with the ÖVP in 2017 to form a federal government. Mario Kunasek has started as a minister in all these areas and has also pursued these objectives. He has taken the first steps in these important areas; and it is our aim to do everything we can to ensure that these steps, which were taken at the time, are now being taken and that we do not get to grips. The government programme also mentions the militia, particularly in terms of its equipment, its use and all the areas related to it, including in the field of social law. Unfortunately, however, no exercises are addressed in the government program. So that's still an unclear thing. If we want to strengthen the militia, we must also give her an exercise duty, and we must also, if we want to equip the militia, raise the necessary funds to implement it. We also read in the government programme that it will be policy to further reduce the heavy weapons. Ladies and gentlemen, I see this with great concern, as we have hardly any more heavy weapons in the Austrian federal army. I expect the Federal Government to clarify the direction in which this will go, otherwise it would be a contradiction to the other objective that is formulated there, namely the further development of the core competences of the German army, also for any crisis situations that might be somewhat more intense. As a liberal opposition party, we want to help the government resolve this contradiction. However, this government programme has nothing to do with financing, no figures. We have been in this direction with Michael Hammer for many years now. We also agree in many areas. I would therefore like to make a motion for a resolution to support government policy in this area: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are significant figures, which we have also decided together in a resolution with the SPÖ during the end of the legislative period. These are significant figures in terms of the further development of the budget. If you, Mrs Tanner, reach more with our joint friend, Mr Finanzminister, I will be right, but these figures should be the basis for ensuring this further development. We liberals will make our contribution to this and we will take care of it. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[14:27]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e12806	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Reinhold Lopatka has now been reported to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e12833	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After national defence, I come to another important subject, European and foreign policy. “Many challenges of our time – from climate change, world trade to migration – are global and cannot be solved in Austria alone.” – These are the first sentences in the chapter “Austria in Europe and the world” of this government programme. These sentences already say that this Federal Government is clearly a pro-European government and is also a federal government that wants to participate in multilateral solutions on very important issues. We see the future of our home country in a strong European Union, and this is why the government programme also states that this European Union should develop further. We are committed to a new Treaty for Europe, as the programme says, because only with such a new Treaty can points be implemented that are contained in the government programme, such as a reduction of the EU Commission or an upgrading of the European Parliament by obtaining an initiative right. [[Abg. Krainer: That's why the Federal Government has been enlarged, I understand!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we do not see Austria as an island of the Blessed, where you can retreat to a splendid isolation. – The opposite is the case. We are in the middle of this European Union and we also want this European Union to grow. I am therefore very glad that the government programme clearly states that Austria will work to ensure that the Western Balkans continue to have this prospect of accession and that this perspective will not be lost. If we give up, a vacuum will be created. I don't paint the devil on the wall now, but: Russia and China would be very pleased about this. It would be expensive for us, because we need not only to see the accession costs of these countries, but also what we are losing in security if they do not join. These costs could be much higher. Ladies and gentlemen! The government programme also sets out a new Treaty for Europe, which takes account of the basic principle of subsidiarity. The conference on the future of Europe, planned by the President of the Commission of the Leyen, is intended to play an important role in this process and to further develop the EU as a strong player. We will be actively involved in this. It is already seen in these days – already yesterday the Minister of Europe was in Paris, shortly after the beginning of this meeting, the Foreign Minister had to go to Brussels – that this Federal Government is actively taking part from the first day. This is very important at European level, but also globally. Our support for the 2030 Agenda with the 17 sustainable development targets is also set in the government programme. We are faced with huge challenges, too, because when we say: We must limit migration, protect external borders, give people a perspective especially in Africa. In my opinion, this is very crucial. For me, therefore, European and foreign policies reflect what we see as the motto of this government: the best of both worlds. What do I mean by that? – We need a federal government here, which takes environmental and climate issues very seriously, but enables the economy to implement technically state-of-the-art solutions in the interests of the economy, also in the interests of our environment and in the interests of the next generations. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] If this succeeds, this Sebastian Kurz II government is indeed a model for the European Union. This has already been seen by the President of the Commission. [[Abg. Lightenness: But it is easy to inspire!]] That is why I have not been surprised that this Federal Government, Mr Leichtfried, has been warmly welcomed throughout Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e12892	The next speaker is Mr Josef Schellhorn. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e12917	Mr President. Appreciate ministers and ministers! I wish you all the best and hope for a good cooperation. Before I come to the issue of business, allow me a few words on a remarkable occasion: This morning, when Mr. Bundeskanzler Kurz introduced the government, he forgot all the serious – perhaps intentionally, perhaps inadvertently – about culture. I believe that this is the most fatal decision to forget about the composition of the government on the arts and culture sector in general and to put it aside. For me, that's a wax in the face of all those who create culture! Markus Hinterhäuser has shaped a sentence that is true: Art and culture are politics because they deal with society, they also deal with development. – I think this decision is completely wrong! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] The “Wiener Zeitung” quoted Vice Chancellor Werner Kogler yesterday, he said: I'll do Clint Eastwood. The rest of it comes to pass. – Well, I also believe that this is so, because if you look at the titles of the films in which Clint Eastwood participated, you can only choose the best film title, namely “Coogan’s great Bluff”. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Wait till I get to the cold progression, because then a few movie titles of Clint Eastwood fall on me, but when it comes to this Bluff, saying here is an economic program, then, I have to say, this is a great disappointment. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Meinl-Reisinger]] I want to see the positive first. Yeah, there's a confession to debt reduction. Yes, there is a commitment to the balanced budget. Yes, there is a commitment to tax reduction. [[Abg. Gahr: Yes!]] Yes, these are confessions. That's where you run into my open doors. As an economic operator, I can tell you: If I make confessions, I need goals. And if I'm talking about a new policy, I can only say: This new policy has not taken action. We need ten anchor points to stick to how to bring about these tax cuts, how to achieve a balanced budget, and how to deal with debt reduction in particular. So where should the money for this debt reduction come from, the money for a balanced budget? Where does the money come from for tax reductions? Mr Blümel, Minister of Finance, also highlighted important words: Responsibility for Austria. – Without these measures, without concrete objectives, one cannot assume any responsibility and imposes everything on taxpayers. Now comes the second title: Clint Eastwood has participated in “Two glorious Halunken”. [[He-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: I can't do that!]] [[Intervocations with ÖVP and Greens.]] - That's a movie title. Two glorious halunks are when it comes to the abolition of cold progression, namely those who deceive the citizens, in a few years a major tax reform of 4 billion euros is being made. In the meantime, people are being sacked out of the left pocket so that they can be put back in the right pocket in four years. – That is not correct what you are doing here, that is not correct and without clear goals. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Now we're asking ourselves: Where's the money coming from? Should it perhaps come from pensions if we spend 55 billion annually on pensions? 21 billion are coming right out of the tax pot. Should it come from there? - No! The government programme says in it: “We need no basic reorientation. ” This is a fatal mistake committed here. This makes us the third title of Clint Eastwood: ‘White hunter, black heart’. Maybe we even say ÖAAB heart – may be. It can basically come from health care. – No, even there are no major reforms. Can it come from the administration? – This is what the Minister of Finance has said. Now I call you a number: In Austria every citizen pays 824 euros for the administration, in Denmark it is slim 540 euros, and even more slimmer one is in the Netherlands with 480 euros. Why aren't we? Why isn't this going for an entrepreneur? The biggest obstacle to an entrepreneur is red tape. This is a point of freedom, because bureaucracy is oppression. I can't see any reforms here, because I don't see any reform of a trade order, I can't see anything in these 326 pages. This is the disappointing one because every entrepreneur expects a discharge. With regard to the nonsense that has been said by the left to the Köst-Seinkung, I am right in giving colleagues a head. There are also many EPCs and individual companies. They need a discharge just as much. If the discharge can be that one frees them from bureaucracy, then that is the first step. These measures are missing here and are not mentioned either. What's the government doing? - Task Forces, Armchairs! The chair circle de luxury is: How do I handle the cold progression? – This is the chair circle de luxury! We do not know anything about this, although we have known for the long time that it must be that we abolish the cold progression. Everyone says it, all the experts say it. Ask the business researchers! The cold progression is a bank robbery without a gun, which also works. And what happens? – They're making a chair circle, they're setting up a task force. Same on page 17: They are talking about a modern funding system, as if there had not been a certain transparency database since Pröll. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Is there eh!]] - Yes, the chickens are laughing! The heads of state laugh, and the entrepreneurs cry because no discharge comes. What we need from new policies is a courageous programme with objectives and standards on which one can measure them and not so Larifari remarks: We're working on a chair circuit or we're setting up a working group, because that's what happens if you can't make a decision.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e13027	May. Markus Kozaist of the next speaker. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e13057	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, watch! First of all, to the previous speaker: A slender state may be good, but may be strongly warned about stomach addiction. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: But we are far away from that!]] That is why we also need appropriate revenue in order to continue to ensure this good quality which we offer. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: That's right, but... there we are far away!]] Climate protection needs social justice – that is, we Greens went to the last National Council election; and we are working with this government programme to best implement this promise. By 2040, Austria will become climate-neutral, according to the government programme. In addition to the ecological conversion of our transport and energy system, this also requires an ecological conversion of our economy. Some sectors and some regions – and thousands of workers, of course – will be much more affected than others. However, we want to make ecological conversion socially fair, and it is precisely this that we need an appropriate labour market policy that actually ensures this socially just conversion and also a fair transition to ensure fair transformation into a CO2-neutral economy. This requires measures that support businesses and employees in order to secure employment and give workers prospects. It also needs joint action and a joint effort by all political actors – these are both the government and Parliament, the trade unions and the enterprises. We want to link up a corresponding labour market package, as we have also stated in the government programme under the keyword "Just Transition". It shall include the following points: One is that we want to create an educational account that actually allows opportunities and opportunities for sustainable, high-quality qualification and professional reorientation to all those who are particularly affected by the climate crisis, the reconstruction of which, for example, take new forms or simply disappear. We would like to invite the social partners to draw up, to cooperate and to participate in this educational account. Another point is the conversion or extension of short work. Short work is currently being offered especially when a company is in crisis. We want to make short work possible, particularly in connection with qualification, for example, those companies and employees who are starting an ecological conversion process that is planning to shift their production from previously CO2-loaded products to CO2-neutral products and services. We want to support them in order to secure employment and to eliminate any economic hardships. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Finally, it is also essential for us to support, as part of the promotion of the circular economy, those labour market policy projects, namely the socio-economic enterprises, which are concerned with people who have anything but easy on the labour market, such as long-term unemployed, people with disabilities, people with low levels of education, so that they are almost re-integrated into the labour market, jobs and perspectives. It is particularly important to strengthen these SÖBs, especially when it comes to providing ecological services which are very innovative in the area of regional circular economy, although they are not private providers. If we actually implement these measures, Austria will not only become a pioneer country for climate policy, but then Austria can also become a model country in terms of socially just design of ecological transformation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why we should tackle it as quickly as possible: for workers in these sectors, but in particular for climate protection and climate justice. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e13125	The next speaker is Mr Kai Jan Krainer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e13149	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There is a lot of positive in this government programme, for example the 1-2-3 climate ticket or the reduction of the turnover tax on women's hygiene products – both from the SPÖ election programme – but also many other points. I will, of course, speak as budget and financial spokesperson, especially about fiscal, budgetary and financial policy. That's a pleasant part, because he's insanely fact-based and in the end it's about numbers. I've been annoyed again and again when chancellors meant short here: We want to continue to reduce taxes! I have brought something to bear on this with the development of the tax and tax rate in recent years. [[a panel on which the development of the tax and tax rate for the years 2015 to 2019 is shown by a curve diagram, pointing to the speaker’s desk]] One sees that among the SPÖ chancellors, the taxes and taxes in Austria have actually fallen. Hardly has short chancellors become, they have risen, already for the second year. Now you can say: Last year he was in office for only half a year, the other half was the official government on the row and they are to blame. But they have spent less – honestly – and have not changed taxes at all, unlike what the EIA has done. [[Call to the ÖVP: These were the tax revenues!]] The EIA has increased taxes over the last two years. The taxes have become higher, you just have to say that. While they had fallen before, when the ÖVP was under Faymann/Mitterlehner and under Core/Middlelehner in the government, they actually fell, they have risen briefly. The second very, very important point when it comes to taxation is that we have a tax structure problem. [[The speaker puts another panel, on which two pie diagrams can be seen, on the speaker's desk.]] We see here how income is distributed in Austria. We see that about 60 percent of the income gets those who work for their money, and about 40 percent are so-called capital and wealth income, that is, income from people who do not work for themselves, but for whom their money works or let the others work for themselves. When we look at who pays which tax contribution, who finances our common budget, our common money, who pays the share of the taxes, we see that those who go to work pay more than 80 percent of the taxes and levies in that country and that capital and assets only make a contribution of less than 20 percent. It used to be worse, I brought an old table that shows how it was before we came to the government. [[a table on which two pie diagrams can also be seen, holding in height]] There was even worse relationship. We have succeeded in helping capital and assets by 6 percent more than in the time before we came to the government. By reducing a number of taxes and taxes on assets and capital, their contribution will be reduced. I know the ÖVP always wanted that, she wanted it when she was in government with us. This has not happened with us, but it is what the Greens are now carrying, namely that Austria is being made much worse with regard to the tax structure. This approximately 2 billion euros to reduce the contribution of capital and assets, only the big ones get. Mr Kopf has rightly said that there are tens of thousands of capital companies. The 1.6 billion euros that companies pay less by reducing corporate income tax benefit half 300 companies – which is not even 1 percent. 10 percent of the companies, i.e. the largest, benefit 90 percent of the reduction in the cost. The remaining 90 percent of the companies, these many small and medium-sized enterprises, which my colleague has rightly mentioned, benefit the brösels, and they only benefit 10 percent of this reduction. That's what we call SPÖ: There are tax gifts only for the great, only for the rich, only for those who live well on and for themselves. For the wide mass there are no more brittles. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Since I have to pay attention to the time: I hope that you will change something else in your government programme on the question of income millionaires. There are people who earn several million euros a year, for them there is a special tax, a kind of millionaire tax on million income. They're trying to let them run out now. This is about a few hundred people who want to give 30 million euros each year. To that end, I say: A few days ago, the so-called Fat-Cat-Day was. On the fourth working day of the year – after four working days! – have already earned just as much as their employees will earn throughout the year, and you want to add 30 million euros to them now. Please think seriously! This is why I make a request - quite properly, otherwise I will get another reluctance - for Mr Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues on 'no tax gifts for millions of incomes'. [[Resolution]] The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Finance, is asked to provide, in the course of the announced tax reform from 2021 onwards, that the 55% peak tax rate in the Income Tax Act remains unlimited even after 2020.” We don't need a policy for millionaires, we need a policy for millions. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[14:50]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e13272	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, it is properly put in place and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Tanja Graf has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e13299	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewer! I congratulate all the members of the government and, of course, at the head of our Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz on their fishing and on taking over their ministries and duties. I would also like to thank all Ministers and State Secretarys and Ministers for bringing in their expertise and expertise, experience and willingness to work, and for their willingness to assume responsibility for Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] ==References====External links== The electorate spoke a clear language in September. The parties who have received a significant increase in the confidence of the population in this election have now jointly developed a government programme that combines ecology and economy and provides the right impetus for the good future of the people of our country. We have succeeded in intensive negotiations to anchor the best of both worlds in this programme. The results can really be seen. The greatest challenges of our time are undoubtedly a good location policy for our businesses and their employees, the preservation of social cohesion and, in particular, the protection of our climate and our environment. In my new role as energy speaker of my party, I am pleased that the comprehensive government programme includes numerous measures on climate and energy policy. We have two main objectives: First, we want to make Austria climate-neutral by 2040 and, second, to win our electricity exclusively and thus 100 percent from renewable energy sources by 2030. Renewable, intelligent, safe and clean energy sources – such as hydropower, wind power and photovoltaics – need to be expanded, networks and storage capacities to ensure supply and network security. We are responsible and will work hard together with our coalition partner to achieve these climate and energy goals. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I am pleased that we can rely on two absolute professionals and their profound expertise in the relevant department, the Ministry of Climate Protection, the Environment, Energy, Mobility, Innovation and Technology with Minister Leonore Geessler and our State Secretary, Magnus Brunner. Climate protection with home mind, with clear objectives, does not have to be a burden, but can be a chance for the future, for innovations and, above all, for a strong location in Austria with safe jobs. Together we can make Austria a European leader in climate protection. I will use my energy for this issue. We can continue our way for Austria together thanks to hard work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e13360	Mr Peter Wurm has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e13384	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! Believers at home! First of all, I would like to congratulate the ÖVP warmly. I believe that the political-tactic game, prepared in recent years, has gone up to 100 percent for the ÖVP. Since I'm a big fan of House of Cards, I draw the hat in front of the ÖVP. Although a former SPÖ minister – when we remember it was the former Minister of Defense – has the word situational elastic, but I believe that this has to be put on a little bit of the ÖVP now, because it all looks very situational. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] If I may express my view: In the last few weeks, I have had the impression that a dream of joy has gone through Austria, almost all were enthusiastic about the new constellation, starting with the President of the Federal Republic of Austria, with the natural objective media landscape in Austria, ahead of the ORF, all NGOs, various religious communities, of course Brussels and the European Union, down to the old gardens of the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Workers and the Chamber of Agriculture. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] - Thank you for the intermediate applause. Actually, everyone was excited. Today I have learned to my surprise that the actual opposition parties, NEOS and Social Democracy, have somehow been stuck in this dream of joy and have come very little criticism and a lot of approval for the new government of Black and Green. [[Abg. Lightness: No!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Light peace.]] It may be that the two parties have to consider how they are doing it. I think Mr Kickl has said it quite clearly today: The only opposition party here for Austria is the Freedom Party. – This has once again shown itself quite clearly today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Yes, this unity – all for this new government and so much for us as a counter-police – reminds me almost of the GDR with the one-party SED. We all know that it has also found a happy end in the GDR, which has won freedom. That will also be our goal as a liberal. At the end of the day, we will also be on the front with the better program. I think we have heard it today, there are in this new programme, if it is implemented, of course groups that will win. There will be profiters, they have already been mentioned today, I do not need to do that again. But what, I think, has become clear today – and this is already important for most of the spectators at home, because there we speak of millions of workers – is the ominous abolition or planned abolition of hackers' pension. It is already clear to me that the Greens have no hackers or, as we say to us in Tyrol, there are no Bucklers, which was assumed that this is not present with the Greens. [[Abg. Stögmüller: You'd be surprised!]] I am now surprised by the ÖVP, which has actually driven this performance thought forward for years and decades. So that hacking, bubbling, working for the ÖVP suddenly is nothing more that she likes, has already surprised me a little, I have to say. I may point out once again that this is the group of workers, but also entrepreneurs and employees who have contributed to the social system for over 45 years, which are taxpayers and contributors. This group has not caused a problem in the pension system and in the social system, but those who have not worked in Austria for 45 years. If you now want to punish these few thousand people in Austria who reach 45 years of employment without unemployment, without any other mistimes, then, I think, this is said to be a revelation of the ÖVP, but above all also of the Greens. I was just as usual at the New Year's reception of the Chamber of Commerce and may mention, interestingly there are a lot of entrepreneurs who also excite this. I can also tell you why. The old system was to rise from apprentice to entrepreneur. We have numerous extremely successful entrepreneurs – especially you should know about the ÖVP – who started as an apprentice at the age of 15 and stamped a company out of the ground. That's exactly what happens. They've been working for 45 years and should now almost go to pension with discounts, this is also true for entrepreneurs, which, of course, is especially true of the classic skilled workers you always say are looking for. This is also a sign of apprenticeship training. If you say to an apprentice today: That's gonna get you sometime! It's just counterproductive. If I start a teaching today, then I know that if I am diligent, working for 45 years, I may have the luxury of being able to retire with 62 without any deductions. This also applies to entrepreneurs. By the way, if someone has forgotten it, including social democracy: This will also affect women in a few years' time. The adjustment of the age of women will be staggering in a few years. I have had countless conversations with women who are over 50 and who are very, very concerned about this subject. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] Summa summarum – unfortunately I am almost at the end, but I would like to say two things: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light snow]] Today, with the new government, the world climate has been saved. We will set up a glass crash over Austria and we will tell the Chinese, the Indians and the USA. We certainly saved the whole world climate here today – very great, will be very exciting. I also wonder how you would argue, for example, that you want to ban all the hosts, while we are building a pipeline across the North Sea and the Baltic Sea, just as someone should have overlooked it. Millions of households in Austria have a gasherms, which you want to forbid. As you do then, I would also like to know! In my community alone have been moved over the last 15 years, I think, 20 kilometres of gas pipelines. That was an effort in the infrastructure. If you want to shut this down – I'm looking forward to it! Finally, what as a speaker is actually my job: Of course, the government programme, as prophesied, does not find anything at all from what the Greens have announced to protect consumers – nothing at all. That's even less than a few. [[Calls to the Greens.]] It was always difficult, but now there is nothing left in this constellation. Another bitter advertising drop for me as a Tyrolean is that South Tyrol policy and the subject of double citizenship have been equally tombed. [[Calls to the Greens.]] The only thing left is the total wealth of power of the ÖVP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e13481	Mrs Hamann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e13502	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! I now say the word 'education policy'. Usually, as soon as you say that word, there is a huge ideological concrete wall in the room against which you can only run from both sides. This has been done by ÖVP and SPÖ for decades and there has simply been very little movement. We thought: Hey, now's 2020. We'll try something different. We leave the wall where it is, just walk around and see what we find on this path. And, oh wonder, we have actually found some new things that will make us more concrete in schools and in education policy. Let me give you a few examples. First of all, I can tell you: In the ÖVP, it may have been there and there, historically grown, that there were still some doubts about the institution's kindergarten. They are now finally and historically overcome. In this government programme, kindergartens are, in fact, the first and most important educational institution in that country. There is a massive expansion, investing in quality, standards and the training of educators and educators, and this is a very, very good news for Austria. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Second point: Something we actually know for quite a long time is that we cannot leave the educators and educators and the children in the schools with the huge and complex tasks they have there; that we need social work, that we need psychologists and psychologists, that we need administrative staff. All this is so clear and so logical that you can only ask: What has kept us from doing this for decades? – In any case, the schools under this government will get all of this. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Third example, the language: Language is, we know, the key to a good life, to education, to a good work, to self-confidence and to success. I mean not only German in this country, but also one's own, possibly other native language. That is why there will be a language offensive. The German funding classes will be reformed, the funding hours will be extended from kindergarten, and all teachers in this country will also receive second language training in their training in the field of German. This too is a great message. Fourth knowledge: Integration in schools will not happen by itself, we all have to do something about it. We will, and this is also a bit reflected in the EIA's programme, since more often words like bans and sanctions are heard. But I can promise you: That will not be everything we say on this issue. The tone will also change with us Greens in this regard. We will also appreciate and encourage, we will show respect and we will listen. There will be anti-racist work with us and measures against discrimination. There will be feminist approaches. We will look at intercultural skills, diversity and multilingualism. Why do we do all that? – Not for ideological reasons, but because it will make our education system and our schools better. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In all this, I think, Minister Fässmann – you are still here – we will bring together something for the country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e13558	Mrs Larive is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e13584	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Austrians here on the gallery and at home in front of the screens! Today I will give my first speech in the House. It's already the 8. This legislative period, and I had the honour of listening to many speeches. Yes, it is an honor for me to be here, even though some colleagues do not always turn their full attention towards the speaker's pulp and sometimes also comment or insult loud and partly inappropriate. I am convinced that we should all be aware of the responsibility and the external impact we have as members of the National Council. As a folk school teacher, I had a wonderful profession in which I was mostly very happy to listen, in which I succeeded in a dialogue on an appreciative level and in which I was able to carry out my commission for education. Education is the foundation for a successful life. In my opinion, this includes a respectful and appreciative approach to each other as well as a sense of integration and inclusion. Only in this way can a smooth relationship work. Therefore, I expect the new education programme to begin in kindergarten with this education, so that we raise awareness of children at all levels of education on disabled children, so that they do not have any fear of contact with people with disabilities in the workplace later on in the professional life. [[I should like to say that I am very pleased to see NEOS and Greens as well as SPÖ representatives.]] Both as an employer and as a colleague, a mutually supportive, harmonious relationship must be possible. Every human being is defined by his work. However, people with disabilities are often denied it because, due to their impairment, they often do not even have the opportunity to introduce themselves to a company. Imagine writing 250 applications and get no answer! For a person with disabilities, the sad everyday life is. The affected work in protected workshops for a pocket money – we talk here from 60 to 200 euros per month – and without a claim to social insurance. In the period from 2007 to 2017, the unemployment rate of people with disabilities increased by 139.22 percent. This is due, among other things, to the measurement of working capacity and the lack of integrative holdings. In order to counter this, it is necessary to clarify. Therefore, today we are also submitting a proposal calling for the implementation of the public prosecutor's recommendations for a more inclusive labour market and building on timely implementation. We expect us to open special schools to all pupils and use these facilities to provide a suitable environment for children and to show others what opportunities they have there; but also regular schools are opened to disabled children and made fully accessible to live there. Article 24 of the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities recognises the right to education without discrimination and equal opportunities for people with disabilities. This also needs to be guaranteed by the legislator organisationally and resources. We also expect a school where talents are promoted and where weaknesses are not trampled around. Fortunately, many of our forward-looking ideas can be found in the new government programme. Nevertheless, the government is called for, not just beautiful words Putting into a programme, but ensuring that inclusion in the near future is no longer a point of discussion, but simply happens because we have finally internalized it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e13648	Mrs Kugler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e13670	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Dear Seers and Seers! I should like to say a few words about Mr Worm, who is concerned about the hackers' rules and pensions. When we talk about pensions, we must not forget that there is a need for justice between professional groups, for justice for women, and for justice for future generations. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] From my point of view, as a human rights spokesperson, I have a few thoughts on the government programme. I think we all agree here in the House that the state of development of a society also shows how human rights and human dignity are protected. I am therefore very pleased about many things in this government programme. One point is the anchoring of human dignity in the Constitution. In 2013 we have anchored animal welfare in the Constitution – it is time to write in the dignity of man. I trust to quote from Article 1 of the German Basic Law. There it says: “The dignity of man is untouchable. To respect and protect them is the obligation of all state violence." I think this is a good example for us too. The dignity of man and how much it is protected is shown by how we deal with people in difficult situations. Colleagues have spoken impressively about inclusion. This programme contains a comprehensive, good and strong chapter. I am very pleased about the positions in the government programme on which human dignity is addressed at the beginning of life and at the end of life. At the beginning of life: The comprehensive and fully funded expansion of early aid is a long-standing demand, which I have repeatedly mentioned, and this government programme is an important item. At the end of life: The inclusion of palliative care and hospice in the rule financing is not a matter of course. It cannot be that in Austria the opening hours of a daily hospice depend on the volume of donations, and with this government program it will no longer be. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The issue of trafficking in human beings is eleven times in this government programme, and it is an up-to-date issue, which unfortunately concerns Austria very strongly. Yesterday it was in the newspaper: ‘The disabled are beaten and forced to beg.’ And before yesterday, it said: Women in Austria are liberated, “beat against Nigerian sex mafia”. – So all this is real in Austria, and this government programme will take action against trafficking in human beings, against exploitation and also against forced prostitution. We are equally concerned about human rights violations abroad in Austria. Yesterday, representatives of the Uygurs were with me and told me how they did not know – and these are people who live in Austria – why their parents, fathers, mothers, their siblings there for years and decades in forced- In the case of an internment in the warehouse. All of this concerns us in a globalised world, and I am very pleased that the government programme is addressing these problems. We want to engage in the fight against the persecution of ethnic minorities, but also religious minorities. I am particularly pleased that it is said in the government programme: “in particular Christian minorities”. We know that Christians are the most persecuted group in numbers and unfortunately the corresponding figures are still increasing. In this sense, I am looking forward to good cooperation. Human rights are a cross-sectional matter, which concerns many departments. Good cooperation with the various ministries, but also here in the House! I do not think that we can draw party boundaries in human rights, that we can work together, whether government or opposition, on these major issues. Why? – Out of responsibility for Austria and the people in Austria and all over the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e13737	Mr Hammerschmid is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e13758	Mr President. Mr. Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated Members on the Government Bank! Dear colleagues here in the Hohe Haus, seers and seers! First of all, I would like to begin by congratulating you warmly on your new functions. I wish you strength and courage in shaping and look forward to a new form of cooperation, dialogue and cooperation. Of course, I have taken a very close look at the government programme from an educational point of view and have read it very, very carefully. If I have understood you correctly today, Mr Chancellor, in the early days, then what you have been talking about today is very, very accurate. They have said: It is a new government program in which everyone could enforce his handwriting and no minimum compromises were concluded. - Yes, exactly! This has obviously happened in the educational part, as it seems that the turquoise-blue education programme would be carried on in full force and strength. It is a continuation of backward education policy, which will in no way take account of the challenges of time. These are challenging times when we do not know what our living and working worlds will look like in ten or fifteen years. That is, it is very important to equip our children and young people with that knowledge and skills that allow them to learn and vote these challenges. This requires the best education for all children, for every single child, and the best education career needs to be made possible for them all. Therefore, as social democrats and social democrats, we do not want to analyse and assess the issue of education under the premise of equal opportunities. What matters is simply: Does the school make it better? Do the children learn more? Do they like to go to school – by the way, also the educators? Do they learn to use creativity and curiosity in a targeted way? Is there state-of-the-art pedagogy and mediation at schools? And: Are there measures that really limit child poverty? Under this premise, I have looked at the educational programme, and that has caused me some concern. But let me start with the positive: I am deeply pleased that elementary pedagogy is once again – and I must say so, dear Sibylle Hamann – in the government programme, with what it is to do at last: Quality frameworks, education frameworks, tertiaryisation of training and much more. Please! Dear Heinz Faßmann, please do and implement! It is urgently necessary because elementary education is such a central tool in an educational career. [[Conspicuousness with SPÖ and greens as well as with the Abg. Shetty.]] Dual training: Please! The quality of dual training is enhanced, further developed, the teaching occupations per se develop and pay attention to quality assurance: Please! However, I am already getting concerns from the Chance Index, a Chance Index, which since 2017 includes criteria in the law, I would just like to say. Why is this causing me concern? - Because it's only 100 schools, 100! The facts, figures and data on an index of opportunities – those schools that need it urgently and have to face the special challenges of giving the resources to master well – have long been at the table, and it is important to finally implement this index of opportunities. Support staff financed by the Integration Stop, which was simply deleted: Yes, please make sure the schools get this support staff again! That's it! Expansion of kindergartens, expansion of the school all day – no targets, no timetable, no funding, vague. What I miss: Dear Greens, where do your heart projects stay in this government program? Inclusion, full inclusion, that was always your goal. I'm looking for it. Long-term, maybe, sometime there's in the government program. I very much miss the common school as a central measure in order to impose and give every child the right of opportunity. I could continue this list a little bit, but I'm sorry I don't have time for it. However, what is consistently striking in the education programme is one of the following: The funding is missing. In other areas, ladies and gentlemen, you are very concrete in the government programme. The EUR 1.6 billion reduction in coal prices for large companies has already been the subject of the issue today. 1.6 billion! Dear Greens, what could we do for schools with 1.6 billion?- Oh, my God! – With this, every Austrian school could get a social worker, a psychologist, administrative staff – and the 5,000 more teachers we demand all the time to make school work, in the sense of the opportunity index for those who really need it, we could also easily finance it! And there's a lot more to me. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Not only for school and education, we could do quite a lot with the EUR 1.6 billion, but we could also do a lot of economic policy, especially for small and small enterprises. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] And as I said, education would also be a very central and important issue. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[15:21]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e13924	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Neßler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e13948	Mr President. Estimated Minister and Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! 2019 was the hottest year since the beginning of the records. But 2019 was also the year when millions of young people went on the road to fight for their future. These many young people, who go to the street every Friday, have understood what has arrived too late in politics: We don't have a planet B. Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the recent events, I can only say that we have no time left. As we have heard several times today: The world is burning, a continent is already in flames. And we are here to fight with all determination against the climate crisis: not tomorrow, not the day after, but now, with a government agreement that includes climate change and environmental protection as key issues. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] A lot of work lies ahead, but we have decided to face the challenge. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you, together with us, to implement these projects, because we have a responsibility to the next generations. One thing is clear: We have created a system that is completely absurd. We suffer from climate and environmental damage, but at the same time we bear the costs. We will work together with a government agreement that bears a strong green handwriting, a power ministry and a great minister, Leonore Geessler, to establish a new fairness in Austria for nature and man. In the course of our project, the question is not what will cost us, but the question is: What will it cost us if we don't do anything? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We decided to accept the challenge. This is why Austria and the Federal Government will also become a pre-eminent within the European Union. Take a picture when it comes to putting a sign against further destruction, because the world is now burning, in Australia, also in the Amazon basin or Siberia. Ladies and gentlemen! We are not facing the greatest challenge of humanity, we are already in the middle of it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e14008	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e14030	Mr President. Dear Federal Government! High house! I have, of course, considered the area of health in the new government programme as a free health speaker, and I must say that it is a very unambitated continuation of many things that had already been decided under the black and blue government, and it unfortunately includes many vague headlines and contradictions of God. Where are the major reforms in the social security sector, in the health field, which would be necessary? Where is the clear target definition in many areas? Where is the continuation of the social security reform with the integration of the KFGs and the small cash registers? Where is the performance harmonisation for our insured persons? Instead, you argue with a new care insurance, of which no one knows what to actually bring, but of which we know that it will definitely increase the additional wage costs, which is quite clearly contrary to the promised relief for the workers. The programme also includes a lot of contrasts. For example, you write a lot of that you want to promote health at work, but at the same time the Ministry of Health and the Minister of Health withdraw the competences in this area. They write about local care and still want to concentrate the checkout points in the hospitals. It doesn't fit in for me. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In general, there are reforms in the field of hospitalization, a new division of tasks between the various hospitals and their institutions in this government programme in vain, as well as the concepts of clinical pharmacy, pharmacogenetics and many other things that we have established constructively in the last government programme, which would bring real quality improvement in Austrian health care. Instead, you want to strengthen the target management commissions, this bureaucratic crunchstock, with which the broken competences and financing structures in Austrian health care are checked, but unfortunately God is not curated. How would it have been with a courageous step towards actual funding from a single source? – However, you have not been able to get through in your government programme either. But I do not want to hide that there are also positive points in the new government programme. I consider the strengthening of prevention, advice and monitoring of chronically ill patients to be very positive, and I also see the improvement of non-medical health professionals as very positive. However, you have brought together the piece of art to overlook a very important professional group in this area, namely the pharmacists, who are not mentioned with a word. Where, then, is the urgently needed amendment of the Pharmacopoeia Act, which should provide more modern opening hours, new delivery possibilities in the supply of medicinal products and better supply to rural regions? Mr. Minister – now he is no longer here – the finished legislative novel has been in the ministry for months! It would have been a courageous step to finally implement it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The topic of drug supply and supply bottlenecks is also discussed in the media with a single sentence: “Fighting parallel exports”, in the government programme, apparently in complete ignorance that intra-EU intra-EU trade is not an export and that Austrian patients benefit significantly more from this trade than our system does. Where, then, are the concrete constructive measures, such as the limitation of arbitrary quotas for the supply of medicinal products to Austria by the pharmaceutical industry? Where is the delivery obligation of the pharmaceutical industry to the Austrian wholesalers, so that sufficient emergency storage is available here for supply-related medicinal products? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Where is the new emergency section regulation in the prescription regulation so that patients affected by care shortages in the pharmacies can be directly helped with available alternatives? – None of this is provided for in this government programme. For this, you will write about the great strengthening of the established area and the cashier's medicine. Yes, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and of the Greens, do you really believe that a specialist in general medicine and rural doctor scholarships will be able to occupy the many hundreds of independent cash doctors in the coming years? [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: These are not many hundreds!]] That's not enough to attract! Where are the proposals to better integrate the many thousands of electoral doctors into public health care? - I didn't find anything in the program. I come to the conclusion: I can only quote this government programme in large parts as unambitioned, inconspicuous and partly contradictory. The Austrian population, the Austrian insured and patients clearly deserved more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e14087	Members of Parliament have been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e14109	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers of today's Parliamentary Session! ==References== The electorate gave us a clear mandate on September, namely to continue working responsibly for our country and to form a stable government for Austria. 100 days later, we have a new, turquoise-green federal government that has found a common way to deal with the major challenges of our time with the recent Federal Government. Our Parliament has also been very much rejuvenated since the last election. I am particularly proud that ten young Members are now present in the ÖVP Club. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The government programme presented also bears this young manuscript out of responsibility for Austria, out of responsibility to the next generations. Ex- Perten and politicians have contributed to this outcome of the coalition negotiations in recent months, and I am very confident that we have put together a great and, above all, forward-looking programme. I would like to highlight a few highlights from the government programme, especially for young people: in the area of mobility, the open spaces for rural areas, the introduction of an Austrian-wide student ticket and in our schools modern curriculum focusing on economic education, political education, environmental science and media competence. We need up-to-date educational content and, above all, a better vocational and educational orientation for our compulsory students. In the field of honorary office, we are committed to the introduction of an honorary certificate in order to certify voluntary commitment as a qualification for the labour market. In the field of teaching, we are concerned with attracting dual training. We have many skilled apprentices, and with new teaching professions in the field of digitization and the environment, we want to further develop the offer. But above all, we also want to enable smaller companies to offer apprenticeship training, for example in the form of teaching associations. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] In the field of digitalization – you see, there are very, very many highlights that I can report there – we will work together for the development of glass fibres in rural areas. An important measure for all students employed: We are planning the increase in the commitment limit from EUR 10 000 to EUR 15 000. Thus, life can be made responsible and independent in the student age. With this government programme, we are implementing what we have promised in the election campaign: We relieve the working people with a family bonus, which is raised to 1,750 euros per year and child, yet do not make new debts at the expense of the next generations. I congratulate and thank all those who have worked in the condition of this coalition, especially our Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz and Vice Chancellor Werner Kogler. This government programme is not a minimum compromise, nor the smallest common denominator, but stands for the strengths of both parties, for the topics for which we were elected. Congratulations to all newly praised ministers! As a youth speaker, I am looking forward to cooperation and, of course, to the implementation of the government programme. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e14182	Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e14203	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen here and at home! It has already been said: We must all be very grateful to be able to talk to each other in peace and freedom – and to fight from me too. This is not a matter of course, and we have also heard it: There are also people here who had to leave their home country because there was war there, and I am glad that we were able to give them a place of residence, but also a new home. But it must also be clear that we have peace and freedom, but we all, at least those who have grown up in Austria, have done nothing for it at all – we must be grateful. Now we have to do something about it because it is not natural. If Mr. Kickl tells you something about patriotism, I have to say: Being a nationalist is the opposite of patriotism. The only chance of maintaining peace and freedom in Europe is to act as a united Europe with our European friends. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Mrs. Edtstadler was in Paris yesterday. It was in the Quai d’Orsay, in the watchroom where Robert Schuman gave his famous speech on the establishment of the European Coal and Steel Community. I just want to quote one sentence – I mean, the man was in resistance, he knew what happened in the Second World War – he said: ‘Europe cannot be made with a blow [...]. It will come about through concrete facts, which initially create solidarity of action." He also said: “The world’s peace cannot be safeguarded without creative efforts corresponding to the size of the threat.” – If I speak of the magnitude of the threat that is now present, I cannot speak of 1 per cent, Mrs. Federal Minister, but I have to talk about it: What are the tasks, what does this Europe do, what does this Europe need, what does it need to do? And then I have to say what it costs. The government programme addresses all possible Austrian issues, which are not covered by funding, but you are already saying to the European Union: We don't have more than 1 percent! - So that's not how it's going to be. I urge you to look together at what the European tasks are. We have many European tasks. Although research and development are present in the programme, longer-term funding is not foreseen either. We will also need to do more together at European level – and this too will cost money. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] If I am thinking about the protection of European borders, of asylum, of defence – cyberattacks have already been mentioned today – then I must say that these are many things we need to invest in. But it is also about peace, as has been said. Shimon Stein, the former Israeli ambassador to Berlin, wrote in the new edition of the “Time” “Even Europe’s Matter”. [[Keeping the corresponding page of the said newspaper in height]] I can only advise everyone to read this carefully – a very successful man, I was allowed to meet him in Berlin at the time; now he is an Israeli scientist who teaches at the University of Tel Aviv. He says very aptly that in Europe we are playing a major role in world peace, especially for peace in the Middle East; we will have to keep it. With all due respect: not we as Austrians! We can say: Please come to Vienna to negotiate, but there is no peace yet. We must act together as Europe. I would like to quote Shimon Stein: “This will enable Europe alone to resist retaliation terrorism, perhaps even a rapid slip into a war.” He also says that Europe has the strongest weapon, the “most powerful drums”, which it has to play out, namely the “will to offer Iran an economic rescue line if it meets European demands,” or, if that is not the case, to say together with the Americans that the pressure is being increased. However, we will only do this together, so I would strongly ask you not to make a 1-percent populism here, but to be 100 percent Europeans, then there is at least the chance that we will maintain peace and freedom in Europe. Perhaps at the end – flowers are given here –: If I had known you were there, Mrs. Minister, I would have brought you a book by Ivan Krastew. Perhaps you have already read it, if not, I would recommend it to you; he also gave an interesting talk yesterday. He says that the slide from the Eastern European countries to authoritarian regimes is also linked to the fact that many of the people there are disappointed that they have not received as much as they expected. He also believes that the European identity needs to be redefined, but please not with 1 per cent, but with the heart for Europe! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e14272	Mr Zorba is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e14293	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Taking a teaching profession means self-determined working for his maintenance. To take a teaching profession means to develop personally. Taking a teaching profession also means exercising a social design claim. The craftsmanship is the machine of our society, and our craftsmanship as politicians is to keep this machine running. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Some aspects of the government programme have already been addressed, and I would like to stress a few important points when it comes to teaching and training. In order for the training system to continue to function well and to be prepared for the future, appropriate improvements must be implemented and offers extended. I am pleased that we have put in place measures in the government programme to ensure exactly that: Measures that fit the teaching for the 21st century. ==References== ==References== Century, what does that mean? – Well, that means that new professions, teaching professions in the digital, climate and environmental fields are created, keyword Green jobs. This means that we will make the teaching more flexible and transparent. For this there is the model of the Dual Academy, which is to be rolled out all over the country. Another point is: Experts have been pointing out for decades that the educational route in Austria is unfortunately also largely inherited from the parents' home. In order to be able to break through this glass ceiling, it is important to also allow and promote the permeability to other educational paths away from teaching. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To allow the Matura also those people and to further promote those who have already completed a teaching means to break this glass ceiling slowly. However, this path should also be possible in the other direction. We also want to attract the teaching of Matura in order to ensure a better permeability and interdependence between teaching and other ways of education. A measure to be highlighted from a green perspective is the promotion of women in technical teaching professions. Last, but not least, compulsory training for teachers will also be necessary in order to continue to provide good training. Ladies and gentlemen, taking a teaching profession means being backbone to this society. With no less understanding of the teaching profession, I will therefore strengthen myself in this field in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e14353	Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Stäger for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e14375	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Dear Seers! First, I would like to congratulate all the members of the new Federal Government on taking over their offices and wish them much success and strength for their work. Dear Austrians, have you listened well to the presentation of the government programme today? – We will assess the government programme according to what it has to do with the lives of people in Austria. When it comes to how the Chancellor of the Federal Republic has carried it out in beautiful speech bubbles, not saying anything: Have you known yourself? – I didn’t know anything about what was in the government program. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Vice-Chancellor has tried and said openly what it is all about. He has tried to present the content of the government programme. We will look at every single point very carefully: What does people use in their world of life and what does it not? To traffic: I can easily do so when I say that the best chapter in this government programme is the transport chapter. There you will have our support. You called the 1-2-3 air-conditioning ticket, I think it's excellent. You're supposed to do that. You also said quite clearly: 24 times a day, public transport in every municipality must remain in every direction in order to be able to take people. – This makes use of people, as you will have our support. We're going to have to think a little bit about freight traffic, but you haven't been so close yet. I'd like to give you some tips. I'd like to say, If a product is transported 500 kilometres in Europe, 80 percent of this transport is required on the rail. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gahr.]] We have very, very much air up there, there is still a lot left on the transport area, but then there went a little further for climate protection. You'll also have our support. But I know the ÖVP, and I have already negotiated with a few finance ministers budgets: I'm afraid it won't be that easy. The paint must test is on the budget. That's where we're going to look at the numbers very, very carefully. They'll have us as support. If it is not the case that this is contained in the budget 2020 and in the 2021 budget, then all of this in the government program is a kind of greenwashing of a very black conservative paper. In this sense, I support the following request as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate has shown that SPÖ is the only progressive force in this Parliament. [[Cheerfulness with ÖVP, FPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It is the only party that consistently works to increase human freedom, and that is why we will never vote in favour of the proposed arbitrarily. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haubner: Incredible!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] [[15:45]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e14521	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Member of the European Parliament of the European Communities, of the one part, and of the other part of the European Parliament, of the other part, and - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e14546	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! So, Mr. Vorsprechner Stöger, if you're talking about Greenwashing, I can tell you as an occasional houseman: Problems in the laundry usually make the old red socks. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] With the new Federal Government under Chancellor Sebastian Kurznach den Wahlen now Thanks again to a government with full functionality in Austria in office. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bösch.]] The coalition partner, the Greens, was also taken as a force into the government, and with the help of long negotiations we were able to work together to develop a programme that shows some for the future of Austria. In particular, this group was elected to Parliament with strong support: Environmental and climate protection. This issue is also, I believe, well anchored in the government programme, because in this joint government programme we have set ourselves a very ambitious goal, namely climate neutrality by 2040. We also have an expert in this field with Federal Minister Leonore Geessler. I am looking forward to the cooperation, because it now needs the determination to act, but above all the responsibility in the design. Not only will it be necessary for the Federal Government, but we will also need the entire House when it comes to two-thirds. I believe that we should take this common path together, too, because society is ready for it. The dialogue is very important here, that we do not come back to the Stone Age with new technologies, but that through the new technologies, through the use of renewable energy, we shape the future – for more quality of life and opportunities for the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] In Europe we have the Green New Deal of the European Commission. This is where we want to become the top Austrian rider in Europe. The aim of providing 27 terawatt hours of renewable energy for the replacement of fossil energy is, I believe, very ambitious. There we have to turn at all the vertical screws, and in the end our farms, houses and businesses become decentralised clean power plants in the regions. The exit from fossil energy – oil, gas and coal – also stops the drain of financial resources into the crisis areas of this world and manages to give us corresponding successes in the economic field. I believe that this future programme brings quality of life, value added and jobs to Austria. Therefore, it is also worth being quoted as a future programme “Out of Responsibility for Austria”. I think we have a lot to do with this, and I also ask the opposition to cooperate accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e14612	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e14633	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! Yes, it is appropriate, I think, to speak very well, to colleagues in jewelry beaters, because this government programme still shows in some parts, especially in the environmental field, a very turquoise-blue manuscript. Nevertheless – as I now have to look into your sector – you can also see in many sub-areas that you want to save the world climate in the final effect. [[towards Greens]] They want to save the world climate through stress and waste. - This on the one hand. And now I have to come to this sector, to the ÖVP: What do you want on the other side? – They want to destroy the economic climate here in Austria through this policy. Only and only that can be read out of this program. And by what? – By new taxes, by CO2 taxes, by abolishing the penalty. I'll also give you an example. The head of Magna Steyr in Styria, Mr. Apfalter, said: If there are new taxes, CO2 taxes, that is no problem for me. 75 kilometers south of my work in Graz, I have one in Slovenia, more precisely in Marburg. – That’s enough for me, which automatically shifts thousands of jobs. This is not a policy for this country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have always said in this area in the previous government: Let's make politics, let's make environmental policy with our own mind! – That was the approach. Now it's just more about taxing off, and about putting people in the final effect before finished facts. But it must not be! The Freedom Party is an essential guarantee that it will be closely looked at. We will measure you by the measures and, above all, by the actions, and we will also show them. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A very up-to-date point is also the rural area, Mrs. Köstinger, also in this programme. We have read it today – I have to come back to Styria, not only because it is my home country, but because I am also a deputy regional chairman there, a region in the southeastern Styria; there is also a colleague, Mrs. Totter of the ÖVP Group, who is sitting there with me on the board of directors – that we already have problems, but they are not shown in any way here. You can't go here and ecologize a shuttle rate – in German: delete, minimize –, demand higher taxes, on the other hand, but at the same time cause higher expenditure by increasing the diesel price and also adjusting the fuel prices accordingly, which means that it simply comes to an expensive price. We have the problem there that a emigration takes place, that on the one hand, nearly 300,000 people already live and live in Graz, on the other hand, but at the same time the rural area is diluted by emigration, because it is no longer possible to reach its place of residence from home. There will also be a massive programme from our side, from the liberals, to counter it. And we're going to be You, of course, in all your actions, in each individual measure, and you also point out where the errors in this programme lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e14694	Mrs Ribo is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e14715	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! A topic has not been mentioned many times today, namely the care. It is a very important issue in our society, but also a difficult subject. Care is always referred to as one of the central challenges of our time, and yes, it is also, a challenge that has become not easier, but more complex over time. We all here, but also many experts, agree that it needs changes or improvements in the field of care. We are not entirely agreed on the approach or on setting priorities – but after all, we have a common denominator –: One wants to support the caregivers as soon as possible, the others increase the care money; then there are calls after a reformation of the 24-hour care or even after a discharge of the staff in the care. These are all important points to consider. But what will the new Federal Government do in this area? – I say this very clearly and loudly: The new Federal Government has a lot to offer in the field of care. It will deal with care with the seriousness with which it is also treated. The government and, above all, the new Social Minister Rudi Anschhober will face the challenges of care. We all know that care has been largely neglected in recent years. That must and will change now. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In agreement with the competent states, we will ensure a fundamental reform of care. The extension of the free and close-to-neighbour advice to care will take place. It finally comes – Mr Wöginger has already mentioned it – a staff offensive in the care professions, the introduction of a nursing home bonus, the support of caring relatives is ensured. In 500 communities will have community nesses, and of course the opportunities of digitization will also be used in the care. All these projects are aimed at facilitating the daily lives of people in care. This is why my appeal to all political groups is that, despite different positions in other areas, we should all take one step at a time in this important area. The people who have chosen us expect this from us, and all of us. Only together can we upgrade the field of care, and, ladies and gentlemen, the area of care also finally belongs up-to-date. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Yes, we have a lot of things ahead, and yes, it won't be easy – every big reform is not easy – but we're or at least I'm not here to make it easy for me. I would like to support our Social Minister as much as possible in the field of care in the future, and I also hope and ask for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e14772	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e14794	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I'm upset. None of the government's representatives today have commented on the big problem of people living in. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: There will be 20 more!]] – Government representatives, not MEPs! [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Good!]] The government representatives! [[Call the SPÖ: Listen!]] We are discussing the government programme – and living is a human right. A chapter in the government programme is devoted to living. I have also looked through this very carefully and have found that the real problems of the people are not addressed in it. The rents are too high, the properties are too expensive, deadlines of less than five years are the rule in the meantime and not the exception – every second apartment Austria is rented on a temporary basis. In other words, people often have to move out of their overpriced homes and have not really arrived there. They are homeless in their own country. The Austrians are pressing the shoe, and this is a very serious problem. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition, the excisive speculation. We record foreign investment. According to Oesterreichische Nationalbank, the tenants pay too much for this apartment speculation every fifth renteuro. These are pressing problems of the Austrians, and the new government has written nothing in the government programme to change that. More: This government programme is the weakest programme in the Second Republic from a residential point of view. The introduction of the ordering principle with the brokers should come. In the election campaign, the ÖVP made a 180-degree swivel and recorded the SPÖ request. I do not really understand why the ÖVP and the Greens have not been able to agree to the SPÖ's request here in the House. The people who have still paid these so-called 2 000 euros too much and will still be paying can thank the EIA, but also the Greens. It is as it is written in many quality media: The housing chapter of the government programme consists mainly of headlines. For example, the government calls for higher environmental standards in the allocation of housing aid by the countries. However, you have escaped the entry into force of the EU Buildings Directive this year until the end of the year. With us in Austria, it is the OIB directive, and that requires the lowest energy standard in terms of thermal standards; better is only the passive house. I doubt that you mean to reach even higher standards. I'll get you together. The measures in the ‘living’ section in the government programme will make living in Austria more expensive. The driving of speculators and the formation of a real estate bubble are deliberately watched. The program ensures that the profiters of yesterday will also be the profiters of tomorrow. The Austrians will have to tighten the belt in order to be able to pay the guaranteed further increasing housing prices and rental. The responsibility for this is borne by the ÖVP and the Greens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e14863	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e14884	Mr President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Today is a very special day. Whenever a government introduces itself in the National Council, this is a very special event. I would like to congratulate all the members of the government quite warmly and I am looking forward to working together in the coming years. Keeping in touch with people, listening, understanding problems and making Austria better: For this we have been elected, and for that we will be here in the House. Of course, we will also be looking for talks with colleagues. But now to the government programme: In Austria about 1.4 million people with disabilities live. I was allowed to represent this group in a subgroup and negotiate important measures. I am particularly pleased that the target group is dedicated not only to people with disabilities but also to the fact that people with disabilities have also been considered in many other chapters. This is unique in our government programme. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] That's what inclusion is. Every person has his individual abilities and needs, and we need to address them. The government programme shows that people with disabilities are part of our society and are being considered in every area. I would like to give a few examples of this: In the field of sport, we have stated that we will continue to work on the “equal treatment of top athletes with and without disabilities”. In the field of work, we are pushing for the "enhancement of concrete employment opportunities for people with disabilities and socially disadvantaged people". Further points are the development of the training of Austrian sign language interpreters and the development of federal uniform framework conditions for ‘personal assistance’ in all areas of life regardless of the type of disability. The list is long, and I could list other important measures, but time is not enough. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We have done a lot for the next five years. I am looking forward to the cooperation here in the House and to the implementation of these many important measures. Direct work with people will continue to be my focus, because I know from personal experience what situations of life and what fates people can suddenly face. Supporting them in their actions and in their diversity is my primary goal. In this sense, we will work together for the people of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e14939	Member Schrangl has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e14960	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear Austrians! The Greens have so far been known to me as the Party of Basic Democracy. That is why I thought, perhaps in a certain level of naïveness, that at least the programme of freedom of direct democracy will have a high priority in this government programme. – As said: naïve. I have never found the words of direct democracy in the more precise review of the 300-page government programme, the word democracy, by the way, only twice, and the word referendum does not occur once. Dear Austrians! With this government it says: Kreuzerl distributed on election day, and now hold the goshes for five years! It is alleged that this was already the motto of the Federal Congress of the Greens. However, the FPÖ stands for its word and for its programme of direct democracy, and therefore I can make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Dear Austrian! We, the FPÖ, may have been a little decimated at the last election, but we are strong because we are fighting for the right because we are fighting for you, for Austria and its citizens, because we believe that it is good are that they should also be able to express themselves on matters and claim their right to self-determination. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, we are fighting for your right. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[16:07]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15083	The application has been properly submitted and is also sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Bürstmayr is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15113	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! I can calm my predecessor, the motto of the Federal Congress of the Greens: courageous in the future. Now I would like to lose a few words on security. The internal security chapter in the government programme is detailed. This shows above all one thing: the high appreciation of both government parties for the vital contribution made by the Austrian police and their officials to all of our security. I also thank you very much for your work and for what they do every day. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] In order to be able to do this work without burning out, it takes a lot of work: better conditions, good training, good equipment, better planning, so that the proverbial divorce rate of police officers is no longer spoken. Much of this has been done and negotiated for the next few years. But above all, it needs the conviction of this organization: We can do this better, and we can do it even better! – So if, among many other points in this government programme, there is also the establishment of an independent authority, which is possible – possible! –Infringements of human rights or overwhelming violence while police are supposed to investigate, that is not a sign of distrust. On the contrary: We know that Austria's police work internationally at a very high level in human rights. Rather, it is a building block for a new, modern fault culture, as it is any organization in the 21st century. In the 19th century, especially if it is to be there for all of us, for all people in Austria. What is a top football club that has just won a game with 6 : 1? – The whole team sits down and asks two questions: How can we achieve seven goals next time? and: How do we prevent a counter gate next time, how do we prevent this one from error? – This requires a critical, as independent view as possible. So, and just so, you stay at the top of the world. High house! Austria needs a good, well-trained, well-equipped police for all of our security, and every person in Austria needs the security to be respected by this police in his human rights and dignity. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If we do that, we have a big jump into the 21st century. ==References== Let us make a further contribution to this together in the next few years! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15174	The next speaker is Mr Yılmaz. – MEPs Yılmaz is not in the hall. Next speaker: Mrs Niss. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15198	Mr President. Minister and Minister of State! High house! Dear Seers! I am pleased to be standing next to a newly praised, professionally occupied federal government. I am particularly pleased that we can now continue to work on creating the right framework conditions for people and the location. We have managed to create a modern government programme with far-sightedness, discretion and responsibility, which will combine the best of both worlds and be an example in Europe. I would also like to thank our colleagues from the Greens in this regard. The cooperation has worked excellently in the groups in which I was allowed to negotiate, and in the other groups it was the same as I heard. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] What do we want to achieve with this programme? – On the one hand, we want to ensure the location, create a social balance, but above all we also face our responsibility for the environment. These objectives do not exclude each other, but they require an intelligent policy that sets out the right measures. Especially our Austrian companies have demonstrated in the past that they are well aware of their responsibility to the environment. No other cement company produces as environmentally friendly as the Austrian companies and no steel company emits less CO2 per tonne than the Voest. Our task now is to continue supporting companies to become even more environmentally friendly through research, innovation and digitalisation. However, our task is certainly not to destroy jobs by driving companies abroad through excessive regulations, thus simply moving the challenge from A to B, as in many countries there are worse environmental and climate standards than in Austria. Rome was not built in one day, and neither can our tax system be ecologized from one day to the next. Even if the opposition still bets this way, it is only wise to take time for a meaningful, effective and directing CO2 pricing. Only in this way can we create an intelligent system, give companies the necessary planning security and maintain jobs in Austria. I am pleased that we have found in the Greens a partner who is aware of the importance of research and innovation, as well as of the importance of universities, of non-university institutions and of the companies, but above all also of the interaction of all these mentioned stakeholders, because only through such a cooperation can we fully play out our strength. Only in this way will we make it possible to meet the challenges of today – keyword: CO2 reduction, energy efficiency, disease control – and only in this way will we be able to play a role together with our European partners in relation to the major players such as the USA or China. The research, innovation and digitalisation chapters in the government programme are definitely forward-looking and I am looking forward to working with the well-known and proven ministers Fäsmann and Schramböck. However, I am also looking forward to a good cooperation with Federal Minister Weessler and State Secretary Brunner. I think it would be good for us and Austria to work constructively to develop the site of Austria, to maintain prosperity and to promote ecologicalisation in an intelligent way. The time that you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition in particular, invest in is, I believe, better used than if you are looking for the hair in the soup, in the government programme or in a responsible government partnership that is guiding Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15268	The next item is Mrs Ecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15289	Dear Bureau! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Dear ladies and gentlemen here in the hall and at home! I am pleased that the new Minister of Women is now here with us, because it is, I think, also at the time to talk about women. They announce in the government programme a rate of 40 percent in the Supervisory Boards. – Yes, thank you so you will safely solve the problems of the women in Austria! So for me, that's connected to cynicism. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this House, we have already heard a lot of urgent issues relating to women, there has been a lot of talk, a lot has been demanded, but perhaps the new government team must be reminded: We are talking about the closure of wage shears, we are talking about equal pay for equal work, we are talking about equality between women on the labour market. We demand that women's poverty be combated, we demand social security in old age. This list could be continued at any time. It must finally be done. It is incomprehensible to me that the areas of women and families have been lost to two separate ministries. We need an explanation. Why can women be found in the Ministry of Integration? What integration measures do you need? Do the Austrian women still have the largest share of the population in Austria? Please wake up! It is long overdue that we are not just forcing the integration of women, but that we are doing persuasive work in some of the retiring men, so that they understand that the picture of women has evolved in Austria. And yes, it needs more budget for women. It's not a day without media reports on violence against women. More transitional homes are needed, and above all more mother-child homes are needed to ensure that women are safe to stay in violent situations after separation with their children. I expect that the planned increase in the budget will not only make women's policies in integration matters, but will actually facilitate women in our country. Similarly, the future pensioners in our country rightly expect the minimum pension of 1,200 and 1,500 euros, which we have already decided together here in the House, to be further developed and evaluated, and they expect – we have heard it today – that this applies: 45 years of work is enough! For you, on the other hand, it is important that the automatic pension division comes to the completion of the tenth year of life of the child. Whoever can expect, knows that means less pension for the fathers and nevertheless overall not enough pension for the women. Our access is that we evaluate mothers' educational work by appropriate pension bills in such a way that for women of old age no pension gap arises, no pension gap resulting from the beautiful fact that they have born children. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] However, I do not read of this appreciation in all of the 300 pages. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For this, it is important for you to reduce the gender paygap in art and cultural organisations – an absolute minority theme. This goes beyond the reality and everyday life of the women in Austria. The same applies to the planned time-use study: Yes, women do much, very much of it, and we all know that. What do you want to change with this study? You will not even tell us that you will transfer the wage for this unpaid family work into real euro?
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15368	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15390	Mr President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! Change needs movement, and the political change we have made for the next few years needs the civil society movements. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We need the civil society movements, which are committed – often voluntaryly, often across party borders – to raise their voices and work for a fairer world, for a more human world and for a world of human rights. To hear these voices, not only to hear them, but also to listen to them, means to perceive all the positions that are critical to us, which may also be in contradiction with us, and also to involve them in important involvement. These include initiatives and groups in municipalities, parishioners, alliances such as the platform for a human asylum policy, the initiative for non-discrimination education, or the Muslim civil society network. This means hearing the voices of marginalized groups; that means hearing the voices of refugees; that means listening to the voices of Muslims; and it is a challenge for us to make politics together with these positions and together with the civil society movements. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have written this very consciously and several times in this government programme, and it will be our challenge to implement it in this form. In particular, I would like to highlight a programme which is a truly comprehensive programme. It is not a project, it is not a single measure, it is a National Action Plan against Racism and Discrimination, which we have committed together here. [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP]] And that actually means making a reflection, comprehensive, intercultural and intersectoral, including a self-critical reflection, an inventory and an explicit discussion with racism, with racism, with discrimination. It means involving civil society, giving it a role and listening to the recommendations of civil society. It will be our challenge to make credible and credible a policy consistent with it. That means – once again –: To name racism and racism, to name anti-Muslim racism, to name homo-, bi- and transphobia and to deal with it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We will do this together with civil society. I would like to address this, together with all the members of the Federal Government, and very much like to: I was able to express this invitation personally – of course also with the opposition and colleagues from the SPÖ and the NEOS. This is also the responsibility with which I go into this legislative period and with which I see ourselves in duty and would like to stay in conversation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15459	Mrs YiIdirim is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15480	High house! Values Members of the Federal Government! I too should like to congratulate you very warmly on fishing. Social justice, ladies and gentlemen, is evident not least when it comes to access to justice, and as my group's President-in-Office, I agree to make a brief assessment of it. I do not wish to keep in mind that you have a very ambitious programme and that you have mentioned positive, very concretely positive, in the chapter on justice. I would like to remind you of this: more scientific staff for the Federal Administrative Court; the court year will again be extended to nine months; it is also very welcome that you have formulated reforms, long overdue reforms, to take action. What is, of course, unfortunate is that otherwise much is formulated and kept in general. For example, you are talking about the “equilibrium of justice with necessary resources” – a rather vague announcement, no figures. It would have been possible, ladies and gentlemen, to include the annual perceptive reports that were last presented to us by the Minister of Justice other than Clemens Jabloner, or the current execution report of the Bar, in which quite specific figures are available on what is needed. Of course, I am skeptical about the fact that this has not been implemented. I am skeptical of whether you will provide the necessary resources in fact and to a sufficient extent. It is estimated roughly – and this is a minimum – that the judicial system needs 800 planning posts in various areas, whether the judge, prosecutors or law enforcement officers, law enforcement officers and law enforcement officers are involved. In particular, it is worth mentioning once again the execution of the penalty, in which just over 200 planned posts already decided are still not occupied. However, another 200 would be needed to ensure that the execution of the penalty is carried out so that the legal tasks can be fulfilled. I also miss – and I say this without a doubt – your confession, a clear commitment to the District Courts, which are particularly interested in the rural area or in the locality of the people, the citizens. This is really about maintaining or gaining the trust of the population. They praise the digitalization offensive. I do not want to be critical of digitalization now, because it is important to use time or to go over time, but we must all be clear that many people are still missing access to digital media and digital skills, and we must ask ourselves very openly: Which population groups do we deliberately leave behind here? One of my previous speakers was already praised today for the working group on the efficient design of justice, i.e. in the clear text, about austerity measures and the saving or pooling of district courts. In Tyrol this would mean that at least 40 percent would be deleted. That's very massive. I also do not want to mention the fact that a defensive liberal democracy has always been the subject. I wonder, and I ask you, because these statements have mainly come from members of the government parties: How does a constitutional preventive arbitrariness go? How's a constitutional federal trojan? How is this compatible with liberal democracy, ladies and gentlemen? Corruption is extremely important, but how credible is this without an independent state attorney? And how can this be reconciled with the often quoted progressive policy? – I can’t go here and say bans, but then I can assure you: We will adorn this with kind words and it won't get so hard. – Somehow this is a contradiction in itself. Let the reforms in the area of family policy be stopped – and I conclude with that. The double residence you want to examine, and the common care as a rule case is already disturbing women who work in advisory services mainly with women, especially with working single parents – and the whole without a specific statement of intent, without a programme of maintenance guarantee. I see great problems and major conflicts in the area of justice, as well as in many men and women. I can only warn and ask you to be very careful and not easily decide on the common care as a rule case. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to say that I hope that the analyses that have now been published do not agree that this black and green government programme is not really a continuation of the previous government, which has rightly been criticized as neoliberal and its programme as a programme for the rich ten thousand, and that, ladies and gentlemen, you are not, in fact, the majority contributors for a government programme that has actually been selected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15545	Mrs Totter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15566	Mr President. Estimated Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Today, the new government under Chancellor Sebastian Kurz presents itself for the first time in the National Council. It is a special honor and joy for me to be able to speak to you for the first time today as a Member of Parliament. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The voters equipped the new People's Party with a sensational result during the National Council elections last September. After consultation with all the political groups, it was soon clear that the new People's Party will enter government negotiations with the Greens. After honest efforts and concertation as well as constructive cooperation, there is now a coalition agreement that can be seen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] It combines the best of both worlds and beliefs for which the new People's Party and the Greens stand. As a teacher and director of a new secondary school and thus convinced representatives of the education sector, I have brought my expertise into the government negotiations and I am convinced that this government programme is innovative, sustainable and developmental. I would particularly like to stress the following points: firstly, the modernisation of the curriculum towards a level playing field. Current training for our children and young people; second, taking into account current learning and learning content such as climate change, economic education and media competence; thirdly, providing support staff in both the administrative and psychosocial sectors – school-based support staff is increased in order to enable teachers to focus on the best possible teaching; and fourthly, the strengthening of dual training. Overall, the government programme provides the ideal framework for promoting talent and potential that young people bring. I will be fully committed to the implementation of these objectives, in particular to strengthening compulsory schools, which together with elementary teachers lay the main foundations for each further educational path. I would like to thank all those involved in the government programme for their appreciative attitude to educators. Our teachers, under often difficult conditions, do an excellent job for our children – and thus for all our future – and deserve our greatest respect and our full support. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to close with the words of our Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurzluss, who said the following at the outset: Only by strengthening education can we secure a good future. – In this sense, I look forward to a good and constructive cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15635	Mr Köllner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15657	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the screens! As a new young Member of Parliament, I was looking forward to the new government programme of the black and green coalition. The voters hope for a policy that is more forward-looking and less backward. However, the Coalition Agreement is rather disappointing. As my colleagues have already pointed out, this black and green government programme undisputedly contains some beautiful headlines and promising announcements. However, if you take a closer look at the chapters, you can see that the ink has gone out when concrete the green projects. Only a few days ago, ÖVP-Klubobmann Wöginger set out the timetable in the “Kronen Zeitung”: First of all, the ÖVP issues are being dealt with, in the sense of ÖVP's client policy. - A slug who thinks evil with it. As a representative from Burgenland, I find that no member of the government of Burgenland can be found in the new Federal Government. I am concerned about the future of my home country and the future of rural areas, so the interests of the citizens must not be forgotten in the future. I am thinking in particular of our numerous commuters. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The expansion of public transport is essential and an important contribution to the protection of our climate, and climate protection measures, as we agree, are urgently necessary – but with domestic sense, socially compatible and not at the expense of the hard working people in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As a sports spokesperson of the SPÖ, I would also like to briefly address the floor to our vice-president and Minister of Sports. He is now, I think, no longer there, perhaps the colleagues can do it to him. [[Abg. Lighten up: He's back there!]] - Ah, he's here! – You said at the Federal Congress of the Greens: This path is a risk, but it is also a pioneer work. – I have a concrete proposal with little risk, which is guaranteed to have a positive impact on the future of our children: For me, the introduction of daily gymnastics is the highest time. The then Minister of Sports Hans Peter Doskozil of Burgenland has already pioneered in 2016 and led everything in the way so that this project is implemented throughout Austria for the health and productivity of our children. Meanwhile, we are writing the year 2020 and the daily turn hour is still not available. It was only recently that a new study of the World Health Organization was published, which gave an appalling picture: In Austria, more than 70 percent of boys and more than 80 percent of girls aged between 11 and 17 are not physically active enough. The number of overweight children is also increasing. Those who do not yet recognise the seriousness of the situation here are negligently dealing with the future of our children and thus of Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Sport may only play a small, subordinate role in your government programme, but it is very much important for society. Mr Vice-Chancellor, you won't believe I'm a greener, and I've heard you were or were a black, a storm-graz fan; but only when it comes to football, I'm a greener. A little bit reminds me of the government program of the new outside jersey of the national team, which I brought with me in principle completely black with a few mint-colored stripes, but with fantasy you can also see something green in the mint. [[a black t-shirt with turquoise straps and turquoise cuffs on the sleeves in height]] [[general hustle and bustle]] I'm serious. If that's good for people, I'll question it. This programme is not a programme for the real providers of our society, it is in many areas a continuation of the black and blue programme, which primarily benefits those who already have more than enough, namely large corporations and super-rich ones. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] I know, Mr Loacker, that's exactly your subject. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you still need a bond, how fair social policy goes for people, look into Burgenland where we, colleague Zarits, have currently implemented the minimum wage of EUR 1 700 and the employment of caring members! [[Abg. Zarits: Go!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In any case, we will bring ourselves constructively into parliamentary work as the strongest opposition force, and we will be careful not to do any evil fouls on the back of the people, especially the workers. I am still looking forward to a good cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15751	Mrs Blimlinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15773	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government, Secretary of State, Secretary of State! Dear Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! Mr Schellhorn said: Art and culture are missing. – Yes, art and culture are also politics, of course. In our Common Preamble, we have said that Austria will be famous for its art and culture. And in the chapter Art and Culture, it says that Austria's art and culture are an essential factor for the global significance. If we – let me add – implement the programmes we have carried out in the Science and Research chapter, this will also apply to science and research in the future. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] A few words about art and culture: In the period I have available here, it is probably not even possible to call the individual arts and cultural spheres; in short, however, it is about that in all areas, whether it be the free scene, whether it be the Bundestheater or the Federal Museums, we will try to bring about a valorization, that is, that the houses, theatres, museums, but also the free scene with their artistic, with their socially critical projects definitely do not always have to wait for whether they get an increase or not. This is to be resolved with multi-year contracts, and I think we have really taken a lead in this. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] A special concern is to us – that, I believe, is similar in the sense of the movement, in this case the spiritual movement –: It is a matter of introducing and promoting public libraries throughout the world. Two words on science and research: We are very quick, and I believe that we are really on a wonderful path, to the financing of universities, namely sufficient funding, in the next two service agreements by 2027. We will set up a framework research funding law and, in any case, ensure that the young scientists and artists are properly promoted and do not end up in the precarity, but that real career models can be developed, with the help of which we promote the best – but also some who may not be so good, but above all the best. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Finally, let me take a look back! The culture of commemoratives is a very central area, which was extremely important both sides. ==References== April, let's remember 75. The founding birthday of the Republic of Austria, the Second Republic. To date, the facilities of the former Gusen concentration camp are in private hands. The Republic has failed to buy it for decades. Therefore, my request to the Minister of the Interior – because there is what is also a fundamental question that we will develop differently – is: It would really be a heart concern to me that we should do it until 27. In April 2020, at least a pre-sales contract with property owners for the Gusen concentration camp will be established and integrated into the Mauthausen concentration camp memorial.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15836	Mrs Greiner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15857	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! What have we learned today? – We have learned how the power is divided. The key sectors were at the ÖVP. But what did we not know? . We have not experienced how much budget the individual departments will receive, how individual projects will be financed. [[Abg. Hanger: There is a budget for that!]] [[Abg. Hanger: It's still going to be decided!]] . The budget committee of yesterday, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, has not brought any clarification in this respect, which is unfortunate. [[Call the ÖVP:Hanger is his name!]] [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] An example is the 1-2-3-climate ticket. It is an absolutely welcome, supportive climate action, but: When does it come and how is it financed? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] We know that on the one hand taxes are lowered: the kiss, the revenue is lost. But where does additional money come from? – Counter-financing is a major open issue. Mr. Bundeskanzler Kurz mentioned in his so-called statement today: He said that the government will ensure that – I quote – “everyone in Austria can live a happy and happy life”. – I ask the question: Then why is this government not worth every child equally much? How can it be that one child is worth 1,750 euros a year and the other because it comes from a poorer family, only 350 euros? Is that socially fair? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits.]] What is the importance of this government? – Obviously, it is important to her that the General Secretariats continue to exist. They are now being continued under black-blue under black-green. As the President of the Court of Auditors and on the issue of economic efficiency, effectiveness and sparingness, it is more than questionable to me what is happening. For what? – I have already requested a special audit from the Court of Auditors under Black and Blue, and I am very excited about the outcome. What do these General Secretariats mean? – We're talking about an extremely expensive parallel structure. Highly-dominated posts are occupied without alerts and people are taken over in the public service, and the Secretary-Generals are given a full right of guidance. Ladies and gentlemen! Millions are spent on General Secretariats, but children are evaluated differently. It benefits large corporations, big earners, while social tolerance is more than neglected. That is why there is no agreement from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15946	Mr Tashner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15967	Mr President. High house! I may start by congratulating Mr Stöger – he is not here now but still – on an oxymoron. An oxymoron is when two opposite terms are mentioned in one, such as a living body or a triangular circle. He said the progressive SPÖ. - That's an oxymoron. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] I can tell you: The difficulty you have is that, as Mrs Hamann said, you have ideological concrete walls. These ideological concrete walls we do not have in this government. We have made it the following way: Our two parties have not come together without ideas – and they are quite different – but thinking approaches are something other than fixed ideologies. In this context, the Commission will be able It should be noted that one also listens to the other, can understand it, can even understand how this approach is going on, and this has been very successful in each other's discussions. This is really necessary for the problems we have and we need in order to be progressive. These are the problems of energy and the environment, which is the problem of demographics in every respect as regards age demography as well as immigration. And what's the third thing? – This is the problem of digitalization, which is not only a challenge, but also a very progressive approach. And the whole thing finally ends up in the education process, which represents the central issue. I would like to thank Mrs Hamann and Mrs Totter for mentioning the issues that have been dealt with in this educational process. You can see – Mrs. Hammerschmid may not have read it so carefully, but Mr. Hauser has read it, Mr. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff has read it – it is written with green and turquoise ink, very well balanced as the two contributions have shown. I don't need to repeat it anymore, I can only say that we really brought something together with it, namely that two opponents could come together. You always think that contrast comes from the word Contra. – That’s not true, that’s from contrast, from contraction. We come from two different worlds, so we call them, but we pull them together. We are thus leading Austria into a new future, into a good future, and this government programme we have developed is the guarantee for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16015	Mrs Strache is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16037	Mr President. High house! Dear Seers! Much has already been written about the new government and its programme and much said, many pros and many contrasts, so I want to keep myself rather short. The transitional government has also been thanked several times; of course I would like to join this. I would like to begin by congratulating the government programme presented today more or less, for one thing can be said: It is not easy to find a consensus when political views are more than different. But one is in political turbulence Times more important than ever: to create as soon as possible a stable and above all trusting framework in which politics can be re-established so that every Austrian and every Austrian can be sure that their concerns are not only heard but also taken into account. This is not an easy task, but an urgent task, as there is a high level of political irration in Austria; it is as high as ever. Now it is up to us to again inspire people for political events, not to continue to drive the political mutilation. I hope that the new Federal Government will work in the interests of people, especially for the benefit of people. But it is not only a federal government, but every one of us here in this room to restore this confidence. In order not to continue or reinforce this uncertainty, I would like to mention some of the points in the Government's programme, which are positive: the increase in the trans- For example, the increase in support for families, the urgently necessary and long-term improvements in the care sector, no further debt burdens and climate policy measures. I can also think that without an agreement not to make an intermediate call at the first speech, it would certainly be one or the other on the tongue to bang Ibiza in front of me. But I wasn't there in Ibiza. Finally, there are video proofs for this. [[Cheerfulness and applause with ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] Because of the situation at that time, there were incredibly difficult challenges for many people. For me, too, the last few months, let's say, have brought innovations, innovations that were more than surprising, but with which I will learn to deal as soon as possible, even if, of course, some would want me to break it. I would also like to use my first speech to thank me honestly and heartily to all those who have come to me without reservation and completely unbiased to speak to me. - Thank you for that. I may not have responded adequately – even because of perplexity – but I have learned to do so. Unbiasedly dealing with each other after these times is as important as ever, for, as has already been said, it is up to each and every one of us, not just to do the ministerial work, stable and sustainable political work. This can only work if everyone really tries to work together constructively with everyone – despite different content – but above all honestly, because only in this way can a standstill be broken up and you can go new ways. I would like to work as a free Member for people to see that we take their concerns seriously. I take my job very seriously, and I have the greatest respect for the free mandate. People in our country deserve only the best, for example genuine efforts to combat child poverty, measures to improve the standard of living for pensioners, but above all an honest handling of their concerns. Let us surprise the people of Austria positively! – I look forward to this challenging task.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16094	Mr Klubobmann (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16118	Mr Taschner said in his speech that the term progressive SPÖ would be an oxymoron. - That's wrong. The right thing is: Progressive SPÖ is certainly a pleonasm.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16146	Mrs Himmelbauer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16167	Mr President. Appreciate ministers and ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mr President. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] I think it is a very happy event here in Parliament today. It is the roadmap for the current legislative period, it is the focus of the Austrian re- Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. I myself was allowed to participate in the negotiations and to include some important points in the government programme in the areas of digitalisation and innovation. At this point, I would like to thank everyone in the negotiation teams very much for the good conversation climate, especially a climate at the level of attention. – Thank you very much for that! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I am particularly pleased that rural areas, and in particular measures that strengthen them and lead them in the future, are being found in the programme. This begins with mobility, which has already been mentioned many times today, which is to be expanded, especially in the field of public transport, but it is also about promoting individual transport on a clean basis, e.g. by means of electricity or hydrogen. This also concerns health care, for example agricultural doctors. With a clear commitment for agro-medical scholarships, we want young doctors also to get to the regions. It is about ensuring care, which is a big topic for us in the country, because many people are cared for at home by their families and they also deserve the best possible support. It is about ensuring food products from home as well as the relief of small businesses, the SMEs that are the backbone of our economy in Austria. Most importantly, my subject area in Parliament, too, is the development of high-performance Internet networks. It is necessary that we also strengthen our businesses, as well as our employees. We create opportunities on the ground in the regions: for businesses to be connected to the world, and for employees so that they can work at home for more quality of life. We know that there is still potential for improvement in individual regions, in individual towns, catastrophes and individual road trains. We want to start with an improved broadband atlas, so that real data can also provide a better basis for further expansion. We want to continue working with telecommunications companies, with the federal states and their facilities to have a coordinated expansion plan, and we want to use synergies within the construction projects. Once a road is dug up, it makes sense to use it directly for the infrastructure that is necessary. If it's done, we won't tear up the road a second time, that's why: collect in a catastrophe and really use it for it. In the same way, we want to use the proceeds from frequency invitations to advance broadband development. From the hardware to the software, of course, we are not only concerned with infrastructure, but also about the use of digital opportunities, Mr Niss has already mentioned it. Digital administration and public authorities should also be made available online to citizens. In the administrative field, but also in the new laws to be adopted, data protection must be an integral part. We do not just want to digitize the public sector. We want to support SMEs and employees to take a foothold in digitisation. Finally, I am particularly pleased and an important area in the government programme: Since the Internet can hardly be thought away from any area of life, it is also clearly stated in the government programme: We stand for a free and neutral network. I am pleased to address this ambitious programme, as the title already says, out of responsibility for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16242	Mrs Yılmaz is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16264	At the beginning, I would like to wish everyone in our country everything, everything good in the new year, good luck and health – of course also to you, ladies and gentlemen, and of course to all ministers, state Secretary and Secretary of State. Good luck in the new year and congratulations on your appointment! [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] As many Members of my group have mentioned the good in the government programme, I would also like to start by saying: I think it is very good that the integration agents are no longer located in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – that was really a bizarre situation – but were established in the Federal Chancellery. However, I would have liked to be independent in this respect, which is in line with our self-understanding as a migration society and an immigration society, and which promotes social participation as a whole. I also expect, ladies and gentlemen, finally and for the first time an integration committee here in Parliament, so that we can discuss content and concretely. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] This has always been prevented, but I hope the situation will improve. Good integration policy is driving social empowerment, creating conditions for greater freedom and equality in Austria. What we have here – unfortunately, I have to mention it – is the continuation of black and blue symbol policy at the expense of the co-operation. Furthermore, our children are separated and segregated by classes. There are not even model regions for a common school, which would have benefited mainly migrant children. There is no solution for those apprentices who can now finish their teaching, no solution to what happens to them. We will push them off and bring us new workers from third countries. On the other hand, we are – today and still – calling for the extension of the red-and-white red card in order to be able to change this trail. [[Call: Today]] [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] There are no figures for more investment in qualification and further training. Nothing is taken back from all the cuts in the AMS and in the school sector. Instead, corporate tax is reduced by EUR 1.6 billion, and the money for future investment is missing. We have, ladies and gentlemen, the most reactionary and restrictive citizenship law in Europe. There is no word in the government programme for a reform of how to strengthen political participation and participation. Furthermore, workers as well as single parents are excluded from the acquisition of citizenship because they simply cannot afford it. I could talk for at least 10 minutes, but I'll save you, but I won't save you. You'll hear a lot from me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16311	Mrs Corinna Scharzenberger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16333	Madam President. Estimated Federal Government! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear listeners at home in front of the screens and at the gallery! My name is Corinna Scharzenberger, and I am glad to be able to give my first speech in the House today. [[It was in favour of ÖVP and Greens, as well as of SPÖ representatives.]] I have to thank those who have supported me with their voice and have thereby given me an advance of confidence. However, this confidence also has a certain degree of responsibility, responsibility for my district Liezen, responsibility for Styria and responsibility for Austria. “Out of responsibility for Austria” is also the title of our government programme. It is a programme that shows that the parties are willing to take on responsibility, not only for today's generation but also for the future, whether it be with a responsible financial policy – that is, we do not make new debts that our youth will have to repay later – but also with a responsible climate and environmental policy, so that we can leave a life-worthy Austria to our youth. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! For me, one of Austria's worth living is a viable rural area, with a functioning infrastructure, with jobs and with sustainable housing. We will create the conditions for this in the next few years with investments in mobility and digitalisation, especially in rural areas. But taking responsibility also means supporting people who are willing to volunteer. The rural area is characterised by the fact that there are many volunteers in various areas, especially there. No matter whether in the case of music, rescue or fire brigade, we will also take measures for these people to get their commitment to their communities the recognition he deserves, because they in turn maintain the culture and the customs, but also in the serious case. That makes life in the country so vital to us. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I am glad that all these points, which are important to me personally – youth, work and rural areas – are taken into account in this government programme. Ladies and gentlemen, it is up to us now to work together constructively and to implement these things in political terms. I hope to have an appreciative relationship with one another out of responsibility for Austria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16397	The next item is Mrs Carina Reiter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16421	Estimated President! Dear Federal Government! High house! Dear viewers on the gallery and at home in front of the screens! And today, at my first speech, a very special greeting to me at home in the Salzburger Pongau, after parishions and Pöham. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In the preamble to the government programme for the next five years, read: “Promoting opportunities means going new ways.” – The goal of the joint government programme is to address the major challenges. This is what we have in mind. Found away that combines the best of both worlds. This new path shows that we take responsibility with a view to the future. As mentioned earlier, I come from the Pongau in the Salzburg country, a rural region characterized by tourism and agriculture. That is why it is a very important sign to me that the Ministry of Agriculture, Regions and Tourism is pooling the competences that are of great importance to us in the rural area. With our Federal Minister, Elli Köstinger, we have a person on the row who knows with her experience and expertise what she is talking about and what she is doing. I look forward to working together. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] A functioning rural area will definitely include broadband development in 2020. To quote our Salzburg Agricultural Councillor Sepp Schwaiger: ==References====External links==* Official website ==References== In my opinion, “And what is appropriate is therefore a very striking statement about the distribution of responsibilities in the ministries. Digital infrastructure is essential for competitiveness, for example in tourism, and a great opportunity for further development in rural areas. Our agriculture and forestry is also inevitably linked to a well-functioning rural area. Strengthening our family farms and our small-structured agriculture is a necessary and very important signal for our farmers, but also for all citizens. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The screws that are turned on are very important factors for exploiting the potential in our regions. We need our rural family farms, which create the foundations for viable regions. We need a good digital infrastructure. We also need a good analog infrastructure – see public transport, keyword soft mobility. All these measures in the government programme contribute to the strengthening of rural areas, inevitably intertwine and secure viable, sustainable regions. We all want the best for our citizens, for our communities and cities, for our regions and for our farmers. With this programme we are on a gold-right and, of course, very ambitious path for our rural area, in the sense of: “Take advantage of opportunities” and “go new ways”.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16491	Next speaker: Mr Josef Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16512	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear government team! I would like to begin by congratulating you all most warmly on the appointment and wish you every possible good for the next five years, especially joy and success in the implementation of the government programme. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! In the last few days – and so today – more than 70 speakers have considered, analysed or criticised the various measures of the government programme from different points of view. Therefore, allow me to make a few general comments on government work at the outset! This federal government, which has already shown the government negotiations, will also be demonstrated by the present government programme, or has been confirmed by the government declarations of the Federal Chancellor and Vice-Cancellor. These new ways have also been successful. I would like to point out that this Federal Government is putting the common position before the end of the separation, and this has also led to the fact that positions, positions and arguments that were originally far apart, almost uncombinable, have been brought together and, in the final consequence, made this government possible. This is certainly exemplary not only for Austria but also internationally. This government – which also shows the composition of the government team – not only speaks of equality, but sets out actions. For the first time, the proportion of women in a government in Austria is higher than that of men. This government – which is not on the first side of the government programme – assumes responsibility by not considering problems one-dimensionally, but in general illuminating and treating them accordingly. It sets economic, social and environmental levels. It is also necessary to consider this together, because it is only possible to deal with the problems and challenges of the future. This also corresponds to the SDGs, the sustainability goals of the United Nations, which provide for exactly that. Social peace requires a reliable and at the same time competitive economic location, which creates jobs and at the same time ensures income. Social peace also requires in this case that the economic location has framework conditions that define exactly that. Not least, both, economic and social peace, need an intact environment for optimum functioning. Environmental protection is only possible if the financial, economic and at the same time the social conditions and resources are available. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] This government programme takes into account and also foresees that the three sectors – the environment, the economy and the social sector – will be put into a sustainable financial framework by providing a balanced budget and fighting new debts. However, the latter will only be possible if the long-term structural reforms are implemented and the division of competence, double-tracks and efficiency holes, which have so far caused very many millions of tax money to be swallowed up, will be eliminated. The government programme provides for measures such as the merger of responsibility for tasks, expenditure and financing. Structural reforms require not only the unity of the government team, but also the participation and consent of the opposition. It is therefore up to all of us not to put party tactics in the foreground, but to have the general interest of people in the focus so that Austria can be competitive, socially just and forward-looking. The data, the facts, the proposals for solutions are on the table. Let us, therefore, focus, not on the separating, but on the common, the binding! We develop joint solutions and take responsibility for Austria together! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Over the last 30 years, I have worked intensively on government programmes and three government programmes myself because of my various functions. I therefore trust to say that this programme, which is available today, is certainly the most sustainable and the measures contained therein, too. will lead to the taking of essential steps to ensure that Austria can be designed in a single manner. As the former President of the Court of Auditors, it is particularly important for me or also a special pleasure to have taken part in the fact that, after years of efforts, on the one hand, the competence of the Court of Auditors has been extended and on the other hand, by creating an information freedom law, the silence of the past is now a major step towards greater transparency and proximity to citizens. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Wöger.]] Dear Members of the Government, I wish you all, as I mentioned earlier, much success, but in particular my successor, Mrs. Federal Minister Alma Zadić, for the performance of her duties in the Ministry of Justice. It has taken over a place which I personally appreciate very much, whose reputation goes beyond the borders of Austria and which is more than recognized. I am sure that she will be able to carry out her duties as minister. I think it is time to address the problems we have recently faced with hatred on the web and the like, that we stand together. That has nothing to look for in Austria. We need the rule of law and human dignity, and we are obliged to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16599	Next item is Mr Andreas Ottenschlager – please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16624	Don't worry, I'm not reading the whole book! [[point out a copy of the government programme]] Madam President. Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the newly elected Federal Government! I congratulate all of you on fishing, wish you all the best and much strength for your new activity. I do not hide that I am of course particularly pleased that Sebastian Kurz is our Federal Chancellor again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I do not hide that I am very pleased, as a Vienna MP, that Gernot Blümel has taken over the skills of the Ministry of Finance. I know the Ministry of Finance is in his best hands. – I wish you good luck for this task. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] At the end of the day, however, I think I am the last speaker, that negotiations with the Greens have really been marked by a great deal of appreciation. I was allowed to negotiate the Transport and Infrastructure Chapter. Mrs Bundesminister Geessler, I would like to welcome you in your new role and thank you for the good cooperation that has already been achieved. The Transport Committee is truly characterized by a great deal of materiality. I hope we will continue to do this together. This chapter was even praised by opposition politicians: Mr Stöger said that it is a very good programme in the area of transport and infrastructure. We have great challenges here, we have done a lot of work. However, I am optimistic and would like to welcome our new Secretary of State at BMVIT, Magnus Brunner, here and mention that we will work together well and objectively in order to meet this challenge over the next five years that we can actually achieve and improve much for Austrians. I am very, very optimistic. At the end of the day, I am already one of the older or more longtime Members, and I would like to welcome our new Members too. I would like to give you my respect for this task, which you have accepted, but also for the first speeches you gave today. I also have to say to the colleague Strache: Respect for this speech, a lot of courage belongs to it. We all need courage for the challenges ahead of us. The programme is called “Out of Responsibility for Austria”. As a passionate economic politician, I would like to add: Economics and ecology should continue to develop in accordance with our motto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16681	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. We are now coming to a number of votes. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Herbert Kickl, colleagues, on 'Implementation laws on the basic social assistance law and the adaptation of the basic social assistance law'. If you follow this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues, on the maintenance of non-refundable pensions with 540 months of contribution. I call for a sign to be given to those who support this motion for a resolution. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Herbert Kickl, colleagues on 'ORF without penalty'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Herbert Kickl, ladies and gentlemen, on the creation of a guarantee. Those who support this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. [[Call: Really pathetic]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Andrea Kuntzl, colleagues on 'every child must be equal in value'. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Reinhard Eugen Bösch, colleagues on 'Bundesheer – Security is also of some value to us'. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kai Jan Krainer, ladies and gentlemen, on 'no tax gifts for millions of incomes'. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Sonja Hammerschmid, ladies and gentlemen, on 'no tax gifts for large corporations'. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pamela Rendi-Wagner, ladies and gentlemen, on the rapid implementation of the 1-2-3-Austria ticket. Those who support this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Herbert Kickl, colleagues on the introduction of the legal instrument of the People's Initiative. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. [[17:25:38]] 2. Point report by the Committee on Budgets on amendment 111/A by Mr Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl, Dr. Alma Zadić, LL.M., colleagues in a federal law amending the Federal Ministry Act 1986 (24 d.b.) 3rd. Subject: Budgetary Committee report on Amendment 112/A by Mr Peter Haubner, Mag. Dr. Jakob Schwarz, BA, colleagues on a federal law that makes a preliminary provision for the financial year 2020 (legal budget commission 2020) and amends the Federal Financial Framework Act 2019 to 2022 (25 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16814	We come to points 2 and 3 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Matznetter is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16841	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen in the Members' series! As far as spectators are concerned, good evening! I am starting with the Federal Ministerial Law Act and I can keep it relatively short, as some progress has been made in the long debates on the declaration of government. We will not agree to this law, and the reasons, I believe, are already set out sufficiently. It is the security ministries with all the intelligence services and reporting to the Federal Chancellor exclusively in the hands of a party. There is not even, as in the black and blue government, at least a State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior. – So far as the first reason. The second reason is: We have no understanding and see no reason for the agendas of work to be released from the Ministry of Social Affairs. Third point: In this Ministry Act, we have the anchorage of the Secretary-Generals, who in reality mean a debilitating of the political responsibility of the respective Federal Ministers. He can then always withdraw in his justification before Parliament and say that this has been done by the chief official, the Secretary-General, who is at the head of the pyramid of instructions. We reject this as it is. We're sorry the greens went there. The reasons set out are, I believe, clear that we cannot agree with this. The crucial question will be the further procedure. But even if the law is passed by a majority today, it is a law that is incomplete because it does not take into account the staff representation and the mandates that have just been chosen. I would like to take the opportunity to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask that this be put to the vote when the decision is taken. Now, in a short time, to the government – I want to start with the positive things. First: This federal government represents the Austrian population in its gender division. That is absolutely positive. Werner Kogler instead of H.-C. Strache – well, of course, I don't need to explain any further. Leonore Geessler instead of Norbert Hofer, also in this case fully applies: I welcome this new occupation. The same applies, of course, to Rudi Anschober instead of Beate Hartinger-Klein. Some have forgotten that was the lady who, as a Social Minister – I just want to say it at this point – meant that one could survive at 150 euros. – So significant progress. And – I deliberately say so –: I prefer Alma Zadić to the heart of the former FPÖ club director and later President of the Court of Auditors Dr. Moser. She doesn't have it easy, as we have seen in the last few days. Hitch and hatred simply startled due to ascribes such as origin, place of birth, suspected religion – such a thing is unbearable! In particular, I call on the representatives of the EIAs and their representatives, in the sense of culture, to: It is not enough to respond in general or to say sad: Someone has also named me satirically somewhere!, but you have to face it openly, and I hope and expect this to be done to the appropriate extent. [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: That's what we've done all day today!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Now Sebastian is short-lived, but I don't want to let him go without compliment: Sebastian Kurz has managed something Bruno Kreisky failed to do with three absolute majority: to determine a government programme alone. ==References====External links== In June 1527, he had to release a chapter 27 version of his book “Il Principe”, which reads as follows: How do I put up with a claim that intelligent people simply accept, and achieve everything I want? - He's been fighting Pisa for years, dear friends. [[Call the ÖVP:Very intelligent people!]] If Machiavelli had known, there is the method: Like Sebastian Kurzthe story, I tell you, he's supposed to have two alternatives, the FPÖ and us from the SPÖ, so you don't have red lines anymore! [[towards the green]] Ideally, you have to praise Sebastian Kurznaur. You have to do that. You guys are hot, and Sebastian Kurz has done this. [[towards the green]] The FPÖ would not have been in question. The true party leader is sitting here, Herbert Kickl. In the near future, a few honourable Members will be fishing at DAÖ. [[pointing towards FPÖ]] This would not have been a government coalition, except for the international one. And we as SPÖ would never have said yes to it, from attitude to all other things: [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Kickl]] Reductions, no withdrawal of the 12-hour day law. – We would have said no to everything, it wouldn’t have been so funny with us. There was no alternative – and yet Sebastian Kurz did. Please extend my compliments to him, my highest consideration. [[towards the ÖVP]] Mr. Justice Minister, I'm holding you all the thumbs of this world. You don't have it easy. They have felt it in the first instance judgment with a somewhat peculiar form of decision-making. Maurer, a woman of the club, knows how strange first-rate decisions are. You should look at yourself a little bit in the OLG Vienna, how the posts are occupied – small note. [[towards Federal Minister Zadić]] [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] It may not be a coincidence that sometimes strange judgments are made. I wish you luck. We will support you, and we hope that this government also has a more advanced part than the victory of Sebastian Kurz. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: That's not gonna happen anymore, SPÖ!]] [[17:33]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e17057	The amendment is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Wolfgang Gerstl is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e17082	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear Seers! Mr Matznetter, if you are trying to deal appreciatively and respectfully with this, this must never be one-sided. Respect, appreciation and respect for Alma Zadić also requires respect and appreciation for one of the best Presidents of the Court of Auditors we have ever had in Austria, Josef Moser. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Mr Matznetter, I have not understood exactly what you have made in the Committee on Budgets. There you have made the accusation that the decision of the Federal Administrative Court to the third slopes of Vienna Airport would have been party-politically influenced. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Mr Matznetter, I can tell you with certainty: Courts are independent in Austria, and Minister of Justice Alma Zadić will take this into account, and you can rely on it, and I expect it to be 100%. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With this Federal Ministry Act, which we will adopt today, we will also implement the priorities we are planning during this period of government in the design of the ministries. It is therefore very important to me to stress that the new Ministry of Climate Change, Environment, Energy, Mobility, Innovation and Technology, which we are creating, will have a lighthouse function for Europe as a whole. There is something that we can no longer separate in terms of content in the future, because our task is to deal with creation and our environment permanently. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We also have a Federal Minister for Regions for the first time with this Ministry Act. Elli Köstinger will implement very important points for Austria for broadband development and for the strengthening of the Office of Honor. You, Mr Matznetter, have, in addition to other reasons why you do not agree with the law, criticised the fact that the working days were released from the Ministry of Social Affairs. – Mr Matznetter, the working days were often not in the social resort, most recently under Martin Bartenstein, who was Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour from 2000 to 2008. Today we put together the field of work with family and youth, and what could be better than having a minister for work-life balance with Christine Aschbacher for the first time. These are the new challenges that we must face. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am glad that we have a Minister of Labour from the ÖVP, because she is in a series starting with Hildegard Burjan as the conscience of Parliament in the First Republic to Grete Rehor and Martin Bartenstein. [[Abg. Hier: I'm going! I'm going!]] It is important to us that we improve work accordingly and that we focus on the subject, because work and the economy belong together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Our members in the Federal Government not only work with expertise, but also with passion, so I can work together with Mag. Agnes Sirkka Prammer submit another amendment to amend the Ministry Act in the direction that the Federal Administrative Court will now also come to the judicial centre. I am sure that is a good way because we should not make a difference between the ordinary courts and the administrative courts as to the training and performance of independent justice. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] A second point to be reached with the request is that the mining sector – as before – returns to the agriculture, regions and tourism sector, i.e. Elli Köstinger. I would also like your approval of this amendment and would like to conclude with a sentence by William Shakespeare: “Our fate does not depend on the stars, but on our actions.” – I invite all parties to follow this call. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[17:38]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e17387	The amendment was presented in the main guidelines and was therefore properly introduced. He will also be distributed to all Members. Mr Erwin Angerer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e17415	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! There's a saying: “If you want to recognize the character of a human being, give him power.” – The Greens have already shown their character. For a few government offices, for a few places on the government bank, they have thrown their principles overboard. [[Abg. Krainer: Compared to Colleague Strache, or how now?]] - I'll be right there. [[Abg. Krainer: What direction should we apply?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] [[Abg. Krainer: I'd watch a biterl!]] Of course, with this proposal for a law, which it would like to decide here today, the ÖVP has taken the full concentration of power to its side. This has already been mentioned several times today. Not only is there for the first time this government coalition, which is new in Austria, but it is also so for the first time that all the security areas, all the intelligence services at one party are concentrated, the Federal Chancellor is still there and they get all the information from these areas. There has never been that in Austria either. It's so far that I have to say, probably the ÖVP has someday said: What else should we take? We've got everything anyway, let's take something! And then they took the civil servants and assigned the civil servants to the Ministry of Agriculture. That's really weird. The reason was then: There are so many civil servants working in agriculture. I looked at that yesterday: Of around 16 000 civil servants, 160 work in the field of agriculture, i.e. 1 percent. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] I called what happened here yesterday as an early fascist. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Thank you, Mr Hörl, for the applause also from the ranks of the ÖVP, obviously it was that way. And obviously, the ÖVP has a bad conscience, otherwise, Mr Gerstl would not come out at the last moment and bring in a motion for a change. They themselves have a bad conscience at the concentration of power that is on their side. So what happens to this Federal Ministerial Law, Mrs. Klubobfrau, is not a glorious leaf for the Greens. Mrs. Dziedzic, I must say – I have already told you in the discussion – that you have been in your government programme in order to secure it: You said a year ago that Austria is on its way to an authoritarian state, which is the end of human rights in Austria. According to your statement, we are now an authoritarian state and with you on the road to the abolition of human rights in Austria. [[Abg. Ernst-Dziedzic: Constitutional Conformity!]] The greens have already picked up the first blue spots, and I guarantee you, you will end up with pretty headaches and two blue eyes. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e17515	Mrs. Club President Sigrid Maurer, you are the next speaker, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e17536	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear audience! Yes, the Federal Ministry Act, which we decide here today, solves what we promised before the election. We have said: clean environment, clean policies and social justice. We have enshrined in this Federal Ministerial Law the largest environment that the Republic has ever seen. We have the Ministry of Justice, we have the Ministry of Social Affairs, and we have made sure that many things are, in particular, bundled in the environmental field, which are necessary in order to cope well with the climate crisis. There are points that have been discussed in connection with this Federal Ministry Act, which I can understand well. Yes, the starting-up of the work from the social sector, we would have liked to have had it different, we would also have liked to have the women. But it's like this, we're in a coalition with a much larger party, with the ÖVP, we have 14 percent, the ÖVP has 37 percent, and as the Momentum Institute has calculated, this ministry division corresponds to what the power relationships produce. I am very confident that we will be able to work very well with this division, and we will, of course, agree to the law. I would like to talk next to someone about NEOS, as I also want to address a point that I find a little problematic and would also like to address Mr Matznetter again. In fact, I find it difficult to recommend a new Minister of Justice here, to look at post-occupies in courts, because one does not like the judgments. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Yes, I, too, have been condemned at first instance in a more bizarre process from my point of view. However, I do not want to assume to the competent judge in any second that he would have had a political motive there in any way. He has estimated the situation, the starting position just as he estimated it. We have a functioning rule of law, the judgment has been lifted, and I hope that the next judicial term, which I hope will finally be acquitted. We'll see how it works out. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Anyway, to emphasize what's important to me here: These are fundamental issues of independence and they also concern the independence of the constitutional service. It has always occurred during this debate, that Alma Zadić could not watch over the Constitution because the Constitutional Service has returned to where it has been for 100 years, namely the Federal Chancellor's Office, the Constitutional Service, which is responsible for the technical assessment of all the laws of all ministries. Of course, the Constitutional Service has to work completely independently and cannot depend on which place it is assigned. I honestly find it problematic that NEOS here state that the officials in the Constitutional Service are in any way civilised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e17584	Next speaker: Mrs Karin Doppelbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e17605	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! At the beginning, I would also like to congratulate Mr Vice-Chancellor and all the new ministers of the Federal Government on their appointment. I am looking forward to working together very much and, as a budget and financial speaker, I would also like to address the first point. We discussed the budget procedure yesterday, at least briefly, in the Committee on Budgets, which is the continuation of the Federal Financial Act 2019, until we will then adopt a new budget in this Parliament in April of this year. It is important to me to say that the budget is decided by Parliament and not by the Federal Government. We know, of course, that here we have a black and green majority, a turquoise-green majority, but I hope you take parliamentarianism more seriously than some of your previous governments. That is why, in advance, we have also made very fundamental considerations about the budget and the government programme, and I must say that if you read it through from the budget and the financial perspective, it simply has not become the big throw. There are two major topics, two strategic levels that really are missing from my point of view: These are at one level the missing structural reforms, the pension reform, the federalism reform, the health reform. These things, which already consume immensely from our budget pot, will become increasingly expensive in the future – and this is simply another lost opportunity, and that hurts. On the other hand, what is missing – even this has already been addressed a few times today – is precisely these counter-fundings. Many measures in this programme are, of course, useful, but without counter-financing, which is also very painful from the point of view of the Budgetary and Financial Speaker. Of course, we think it is good that a balanced budget should be sought, but – once again – it will be very difficult without counter-financing. Let me give you two, three examples. This is a very concrete expenditure for the transport billions, the federal public office ticket, the reduction of the cost. Again: These are measures that we, of course, also support, but that needs to be counter-financed. It's not fair to sign it out here. What is missing in this context, and what hurts entrepreneurs in this country, is that one has not been talked about the additional wage costs. Lowering the additional wage costs has always been one of the very important and central promises of the ÖVP, even in this election campaign, and it is not possible to find anything in this programme again. The next story is the income tax reform. There are the planned reductions here and they are now being sold again as a great act and as a great aid to the discharge of citizens in that country. What you are giving back here, the citizens themselves have been developing, for many, many years. They give back here homage, but we all know what it is about: the abolition of the cold progression. They give back to the people the money that they have earned and worked out for themselves. This is simply not a sustainable relief for people in this country. If you really want to plan a sustainable relief for the people, then you finally have to abolish the cold progression. We also know that what is in this programme will not be enough. It is, I think, an analysis of the abolition of cold progression. However, I do not know what there is still to be analysed, we have been discussing this issue since I was in this House, but it has also been discussed before, I think it would be time to do it simply. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] One last point is also very important to me: the environmental tax reform. This is planned for 2022 now, and from my point of view this is a far-reaching opportunity. I believe that, as a Green Group, you have enough knowledge, sufficient expertise and, now, with all the ministries in the background, you have enough resources at your disposal, so that it cannot take two years to draw up a concept that can then be implemented. I think you all know: In the summer, we NEOS presented a concept for an environmental tax reform. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] We've had it calculated, it's okay, it's been recognized by experts internationally, it's gotten many, many very clever people dealing with it – and then tell us here, you need two years to get something going. Very serious, dear Green: This is a delaying tactic, you're holding us. [[Abg. Maurer: No, that's serious politics!]] We don't believe you can take so long. I think there are quite other reasons why this is not going to happen, and I think it is quite dangerous that we wait so long. I don't think you're doing anything good with it. [[Abg. Maurer: By the way, that will enter into force 2022!]] Then very briefly to the Ministry Act: Of course it's like this: How Green and Turquoise divides the resorts, of course, is primarily a matter of their agreement; that is quite clear. However, a few ideas are already a bit absurd, and that is quite a pity. We still find shame that the Constitutional Service as well as the fundamental and freedom rights are moving from the Ministry of Justice to the Federal Chancellery. [[Abg. Maurer: Mr. Jabloner says himself...!]] In the last few days, you have repeatedly said – including you, Mrs Maurer, that Alma Zadić will monitor compliance with our Constitution. My colleague Niki Scherak has said quite correctly that she has transferred the competences to the Federal Chancellery. That is why we can only hope and, of course, expect that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany and, of course, the Constitutional Court will have this in their responsibilities again, and they will certainly do so. From our point of view, what is really absurd is that the post- and telecommunications workers travel to the Ministry of Agriculture. This means, of course, nothing more than more power and influence of the ÖVP. Of course, this would belong to the Ministry of Infrastructure, but yes, well, that was the decision in this area. I do not even want to talk about civil service, which also goes to the Ministry of Agriculture. In the Committee on Budgets, too, the colleagues from the ÖVP made a real effort yesterday to explain why this is useful. In my view, they have also failed very well in these statements. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: That's not true!]] And last: It is absolutely inexplicable for us that you reintroduce the Secretary-Generals introduced under Turquoise Blue; the transitional government has rightly abolished these completely unnecessary super-supervisors, who can be used without a public tender. There is no reasonable explanation for why there should be this again. The BAT affair has shown how dangerous this can be. We just wouldn't have expected that from the greens. We therefore propose an amendment to prevent these Secretary-Generals from being installed again with this power. I'm reading this now: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you for your attention. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[17:53]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e17775	The amendment has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Gabriel Obernosterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e17802	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators on the gallery and at home in front of the TV screens! I think I'm the 80 now. Talker. Much has already been said twice, triple and ten times. We are now dealing with the agenda items on the budget and the Federal Ministerial Act. Today the presentation of the government took place, and the government programme was presented by our Federal Chancellor and by our Vice-Chancellor, as well as their ideas in the individual areas and the individual ministries. I listened very attentively to the speakers of the opposition parties, and there came, for example, from the Club of the SPÖ: We will look at what is being done!, and it is also, in part, also offered by the other parties, to help. The two points we are now deciding on are actually nothing but that the government can start working immediately on what it has presented here today. The Federal Chancellor, the Vice-Chancellor and also the Club members have stretched their hands to the opposition parties and looked at the best possible if it goes together – there is an opposition, I know, there can't always be everything in common – for our Republic, for Austria to do. And now two laws are being passed that need it so that this government can immediately launch the programme it has presented today. Having just heard the first speaker of the SPÖ and knowing how much there has been in the ministries since the SPÖ-ÖVP coalitions, I must say: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl]] You do not even give this government with your rejection of these two points the chance to show that this is correct and important. I understand opposition in such a way that you simply announce what you don't think is reasonable or otherwise. For this there are the opposition parties, and thank God they are. I'm the 14 now. Year in this house and have never experienced it, that you don't say: Okay, let's see how you work, where it fits, we're going to take part in this... We are going to criticize them very clearly. You give this government with your rejection today – we have the majority, and the ÖVP and the Greens have thought something about why something goes from one ministry to another, so that there are proper competences and responsibilities – not even the chance to show that this is right, but you say from home: No, that's all wrong! – I do not understand this under a constructive opposition policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] But one thing I say to you: German chancellors and vice chancellors have said quite clearly here today: This government will not manage the present, but it will shape the future for the next generation. One is the environmental sector, the other is the economy, the social affairs et cetera; I do not want to list everything that is important. Let us be glad that we have the right experts in every party! The minimum I really expect from the colleagues of the opposition parties is that at least one hears what the government is doing, gives her the chance and then reacts, one hand up and basically gives them the chance to shape where they believe it is right. This government of ÖVP and Greens will show that we can lead this country into a future that is economically stable, safe and fair to the environment, so that the children of the next generation can grow up clean, proper and healthy as we do. Let us be happy that we can live in such a state! We are obliged to bring it up and pass on to our children in this way. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e17865	The next item is the speech by Mr Markus Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e17887	I think we have clearly shown why we will not agree to this law today. There are, of course, issues where we differ in content, such as in the important area of telecommunications, which is simply the backbone for our industrial and economic location and which is now being reduced at once in rural areas. At the same time, the speeches showed what it really is about, namely to have access to the proceeds from the frequency auction. That is, not future issues determine this policy, but it is about clarifying questions of power. We have clearly stated where our red lines lie. I listened very closely to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany when he said that we should not insist on the red lines. Quite honestly: If you need the majority in two chambers, not only here, but also in the Federal Council, then from my point of view, it is not wise simply to drive straight ahead and hope that the obstacle that builds up in front of you will, at once, go out of the way voluntarily, because democracy simply does not work, namely trying to remove obstacles simply at speed. There was no conversation. Dear Gabriel! If you think we should not delay artificial things and block work, I ask you: What about this important topic of transparency in this House? What is our right as a minority, we have introduced a desire to set up a committee of inquiry which has been postponed by the votes of the EIA and, indeed, by the votes of the Greens. Does it look like politics in which to deal with each other, create transparency and address the issues of the future?
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e17925	No one has been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. This will result in the vote which I shall take separately from each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Draft Federal Ministerial Law Novelle 2020 in 24 of the Supplements. Mr Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, an amendment tabled by Members of Parliament, Mr Leichtfried, Mr Deckenbacher, Mr Lausch, Mr Koza, Mr Loacker, Mr Loacker, Mr Cot, and Mr Gerstl, Mr Prammer, Mr President of the Commission. I will therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the proposed addition or amendment, which follow the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Loacker, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an additional amendment concerning the insertion of a new point 3a. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. The Members of Parliament, Mr Leichtfried, Mr Deckenbacher, Mr Lausch, Mr Koza, Mr Loacker, Mr President, have tabled an amendment concerning paragraph 6. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this consent to a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Mr Gerstl, Mr Prammer, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment on paragraphs 10, 30, 31, 33 and 34. Whoever gives this consent, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this agreement to give a corresponding sign. – This is the majority, accepted. I shall come to the third reading immediately. Whoever gives approval to the draft law in third reading, I ask for an appropriate sign. – The draft law is therefore adopted by a majority of the third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Draft Federal Law, which introduces a Federal Act providing for a provisional provision for the financial year 2020 and amends the Federal Financial Framework Act 2019 to 2022, together with the title and receipt in 25 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give the consent to a corresponding sign. – This is the majority, accepted. I shall come to the third reading immediately. Whoever gives the consent in third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft law is therefore adopted at the third reading. [[18:03:50]] 4. Point Choice of committees
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e18027	This leads us to the 4th place. Agenda item. There is agreement to choose the following committees: External Policy Committee, Committee on Buildings and Living, Committee on Family and Youth, Financial Committee, Committee for Research, Innovation and Digitalization, Health Committee, Equal Treatment Committee, Justice Committee, Consumer Protection Committee, Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, Committee on Human Rights, Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, Sports Committee, Tourism Committee, Environment Committee, Teaching Committee, Constitutional Committee, Transport Committee, Public Prosecutor's Committee, Economics, Industry and Energy, Scientific Committee. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the establishment of these committees just mentioned. – This is unanimously accepted. According to § 32 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Council shall determine the number of members and alternate members of each committee. Members and alternate members shall be distributed to parliamentary clubs in proportion to the number of Members who belong to them in accordance with the principles laid down in section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. Following consultation at the Presidential Conference, a number of 23 members and substitute members have now been proposed for the Committees mentioned, whose allocation to the clubs was defined as follows: ÖVP per 9, SPÖ per 5, FPÖ per 4, Green per 3 and NEOS per 2. We shall vote on this proposal. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. The names of the members or substitutes notified by the clubs to the President and thus as elected Members of Parliament are listed in the Stenographical Protocol. [[The names of the members and replacement members and their functions are actively available on the Internet at www.parliament.gv.at – Parliament> Committees.]] The agenda is exhausted. [[18:06:11]] Vote on a request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e18101	We shall come to the vote on the request made by Mr Prince, ladies and gentlemen, to the Budget Committee for reporting on Amendment 20/A, a deadline until 20. It will be possible to set up January 2020. Whoever speaks out for this deadline, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. [[18:06:30]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e18128	I have a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the Official Protocol on Agenda items 2 and 4 so that these parts are deemed approved at the end of the sitting. I am therefore now reading the corresponding parts of the Official Protocol: Agenda item 2: 'Deputies may. Lighten up, Mag. Deckenbacher, Lausch, Mag. Koza, Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment (Annex 2/1). Deputies Mag. Gerstl, Mag. Prammer, colleagues and others tabled an amendment (Annex 2/2), [...] Deputies Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment (Annex 2/3). [...] The amendment Annex 2/3 is rejected [...] The draft law is adopted in accordance with the Committee’s proposal [...] taking into account amendments to Supplement 2/1 and Supplement 2/2 in second [...] and in third reading [...].’ Agenda item 4: ‘There is agreement to choose the following committees: Committee on Foreign Affairs Committee on Buildings and Housing Committee on Family Affairs and Youth Financial Committee Research, Innovation and Digitalisation Committee Health Committee Equal treatment committee Justice Committee Consumer Protection Committee Committee on Agriculture and Forestry Committee on Human Rights Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives Sports Committee Tourism Committee Environment Committee Information Committee Constitutional Committee Transport Committee Public Prosecutor's Committee Economic, Industrial and Energy Committee Science Committee This is [...] accepted. A number of 23 members and replacement members are proposed for these committees. Accordingly,: ÖVP per 9 members and replacement members SPÖ each 5 members and replacement members FPÖ per 4 members and replacement members Greens per 3 members and replacement members NEOS per 2 members and replacement members This is [...] accepted. ==References====External links== To appoint replacement members of the committees, which are thus valid in accordance with § 32 para. 1 GOG as elected. The names of these Members shall be entered in the Stenographical Protocol.’ I am now asking whether there are objections to the version or content of these parts of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. These parts of the Official Protocol are therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. [[18:09:28]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2020-01-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e18293	I announce that in today's session, the self-employed have received applications 170/A to 206/A(E). The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 6.10 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
