ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e5309	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I'm allowed to do the 27th. Declaration by the National Council on Openness. I would like to welcome you, also the ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the television screens. We have again taken a relaxed seat order in order to ensure the necessary distance and to take the best possible action by the health authorities. I know that the places in the gallery are not optimal, and I ask for understanding accordingly. The roof foyer is also available. The vote on the subject-matter of the negotiations will take place at the end of the negotiations on all the submissions of a particular committee. This will also be interrupted in the short term. I would like to thank you very much, just in times like this, for the conference intensity. The fundamentals of the rule of law – and this, I believe, is very important to all of us – are made by the abundance of decisions. [[The representatives of the FPÖ carry stickers at the revers, on which are pictured against red and white-red background coronaviruses and the inscription “Allianz gegen Coronawahnsinsinn.at – Now it’s enough!”]] If we are in these days of the 75. Returning to Austria's declaration of independence after the times of dictatorship, the murderous and terrorist Nazi regime and a devastating world war, we should be pleased that we have a fortified democracy, that we are all really expressing it very clearly and that we do not allow ourselves to suffer in any way even in times of crisis. The official protocols of 24th, 25th and 26ths. Meeting of 22. April 2020 are inconvenient and have not been challenged. The MEPs Kira Grünberg, Nurten Yılmaz, Dr. Reinhard Eugen Bösch, are reported to be prevented today. Gerald Hauser, Ing. Norbert Hoferund Mag. Georg Bürstmayr. I may announce that the ORF will transfer this meeting in ORF 2 and 19-15 in ORF III by 1 p.m. and then the meeting will be transmitted to the TV library. [[09:07:41]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e5387	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: ‘Effective Coronahilfe: Security for the site, businesses and jobs I should like to welcome the Ministers on the Government Bank very warmly. Mr Haubner, who knows that he has 10 minutes of speaking time, is speaking, and then it is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e5421	Mr President. Appreciate women ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear ladies and gentlemen! We now have a current hour on the topic of economics and economic support in Corona. Let's look at the Austrian economy: It has always been distinguished by a high level of commitment, innovation, social skills and international networking, and therefore also thanks to all entrepreneurs for their courage to entrepreneurship and their willingness to risk. [[I should like to thank the rapporteurs of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the ……]] Let us look at the way of Austrian businesses in the last 75 years since the founding of the Second Republic: There are many success stories – from the host around the corner to the innovative SME business, to successful industrial companies, to many world market leaders we have here in Austria. In recent years, our Austrian entrepreneurs have been responsible for many success reports – both in their own businesses and for Austria's economic location. They have thus created the basis for our successes made in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. Our Austrian entrepreneurship has produced a lot of positive results: a good economic growth, top employment in our businesses, a good social climate and safe jobs. Now a virus has missed a strong deal of this success course, and that is why we are more than ever required to put together the right measures here for Austria, for its citizens and for its businesses. That is why I would like to say a strong thank you at this point to all those who, through their efforts, no matter where – in their own company, in a voluntary capacity, at home, in the family or at work – have contributed to the management of this state of emergency. Thanks a lot! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Considering the history of Austria and Europe, it must be noted that we have had crises again and again – be it the world economic crisis in the 1930s, the oil crisis in the 1970s or the financial crisis in 2008/2009. All these crises have called for us – the entrepreneurs, the workers, the banks and the policies – to be the most massive. However, we have always done one thing: We Austrians have held together and have walked through these valleys of tears together. The best example of this was the reconstruction of the Second Republic after the terrible Second World War, when our grandparents and parents created the basis for our prosperity and the location of Austria through their commitment, faith and work. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] This crisis also shows that we can find a way out of the crisis with cohesion and common solutions. What is needed is many well thought out individual measures that can cover and support the economy as widely as possible. With economics, I mean companies, entrepreneurs, employees, banks and, in this case, the state, because the state has a very central task in this crisis: We entrepreneurs always say that we need as little state as possible and that entrepreneurial freedom stimulates our businesses. But at present everything is different, in this crisis the state also has the very important task of directing and supporting our businesses to guide us through the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, when everything works again – and I say that quite clearly – the state has to go back to its core tasks. [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, that's why you turned it all off!]] You are likely to be in contact with many entrepreneurs every day at the Hohenhaus. I am, too, and I am presented with the various problems that each and every one of them is faced with. Just now we see how diverse the Austrian economy is: What is right and good for a hairdresser is not suitable for a trade representative as a measure at all, and a gastronomy needs a completely different support than a business advisor. That is why we have tied up this set of measures, consisting of several individual measures, which offer as many self-employed as possible different forms of support. In total, this package is 38 billion euros heavy. In the international comparison, we are counting on the number of businesses and entrepreneurs in the absolute top line. Let us take a look at the packages in detail: There are, on the one hand, the support packages of the financial offices and social security; in total, EUR 1.4 billion. This works uncomplicated and has been used more than 160,000 times. There are liability and warranty packages in various forms. The AWS has said that up to now 6 500 entrepreneurs have received commitments with a guarantee volume of 1.25 billion euros and a credit volume of approximately 1.45 billion euros. We now also have the bridging aid with a 100% guarantee of the state. There were also the first funds, it could be started with the disbursements. Ladies and gentlemen, it is perfectly clear to me that it needs to be faster and more efficient, because our businesses need rapid support and they need planning and financing security, but above all they need liquidity. In the past, it is unlikely that everything has not always gone around, as the companies in Austria and Germany cannot be found in terms of equity ratio. This is a major challenge right now, and I therefore firmly believe that we need to address the issue of economic packages that we need to address this crisis and which are therefore a strong support for the formation of equity. The short-term work is another measure that has produced a good effect. So far, 97 000 businesses and thus 1.1 million employees have benefited from this measure. This is quite, very important for our businesses, so that when they get started again, when they can start off slowly, they can start to get back on track. Every job and every business is a heart concern and we know what we have in our employees, and that is why this is a very, very important measure. Ladies and gentlemen, I also assure you that we are making every day efforts to make adaptations when it is necessary, as is the case with the Hardening Fund. I would like to thank the Chamber of Commerce for the good work they have done. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] [[Abg. Lightenness: It is true what the colleague Schellhorn says!]] In the field of health, we have so far come through this crisis very well, due to a good mix of the high discipline of Austrians – thanks for it – our very good health system, the right decisions of the Federal Government and the international experience. I have received many calls from citizens from my constituency who have said that I should thank the Federal Chancellor for his consistent action at this time. It is very important that you have a clear plan of action. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Lightenness: How can one do that if he is not there?]] I would also like to thank the Minister for always being open to her when it comes to improving measures. I think we have our instruments now so far that they work. Now it is about creating the framework conditions in the economic field, so that a good and successful economy is possible again in the future. In addition, a great request to the Austrians: Buy Please visit the Austrian businesses, the regional dealer of your trust in your home and make your holiday in Austria this year! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] The Austrian companies are looking forward to you and I think they deserve our solidarity.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e5520	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e5535	I already stressed: We have a very important concern for every company and every job, because we have a big goal: We want to return to the success track made in Austria. This applies to our whole commitment and our commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e5573	Mrs Schramböck has been reported to speak. I can give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e5594	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In times of crisis, two things are very important: firstly, all Austrians who help to contribute to the measures we have decided with you in Parliament, which comply with the safety distances and the recommendations for disinfection. I've done this before and I'll do it again, because that's important. The Austrians have thus contributed to the fact that we are there today, where we are, that we are better than other countries and that, earlier than other countries, we can re-establish measures for the economy in order to re-establish the economy step by step. The second is to respond as quickly as possible, quickly, properly and as far as possible. That is why we have today also put in place further measures to enable businesses to lock up again, step by step in this normal life, to return to normal economic life. The date 15 applies to the gastronomy. May – with all the details that have already been presented today – for the tourism of the 29th century. May and for trade as a very important further regulation that the current restrictions on business from 20 square meters per customer are reduced to 10 square meters per customer. It is important that we cooperate with experts and take the measures step by step, just as we do on the financial side. To do the shield of 38 billion euros available to the Austrian economy. It is essential that you can't make up everything in the quiet room and alone, but that you can integrate the companies to listen to their feedback and extend this shield step by step. So I want to take the different steps now. The first was the hardness fund, phase two, which is very important to secure existences in order to help in this critical phase – it was about this amount of up to 1 000 euros. How many have taken advantage of this? – 134 000 applications were made positively last week and 122 million euros paid to Austrian micro-enterprises, EPUs, and also to the new self-employed. We have a lot, we have received numerous feedback from you and also from the entrepreneurs, and we have rightly been asked to say how we can get even better, how we can adapt this protective shield especially in phase two accordingly. - That's what we did. The second phase now applies: up to 6 000 euros, and 82,000 applications have been received since the beginning of last week. This feedback has prompted us to make changes, including with regard to the founders who have already set up in 2018 and 2019, so that they can use this scheme, because it is important to help the new companies accordingly. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] A change that we have also made is to reduce many barriers to entry and to give much more companies the opportunity to access it. I think that very important is the 500 euro rule, which now applies to all entrepreneurs who can submit in this respect – to the micro-enterprises, the EPUs. It is important to support them in their most difficult phase, and I am pleased that we have managed to provide for this 500 euro rule. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] But, of course, a rigidity fund that compensates for the entrepreneurship's salary is not enough; it is now necessary to look at companies as well. That is why we have planned EUR 15 billion in the Coronahilfe Fund to support, in particular, those SMEs, in terms of their liquidity, which account for 99.6 percent of the businesses in Austria. For this, there is the possibility to secure credit from banks as far as interest rates are concerned, and at the same time – that is very, very important! – the amounts on which the companies remain, the amounts they cannot continue to calculate, as a result of which they do not have to repay the companies. This is a concrete grant. This is about costs such as Internet costs, which are the operating costs that are constantly being incurred, and which will not have to be repaid to a high degree. In this respect, there will be a grant that does not need to be repaid, and that is very, very important at this time. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Let us take a look at the tax bases together! There have already been 160 000 tax receipts of EUR 4.1 billion, which is an instrument that has been very well accepted. For short work: So far, we have secured 1.1 million jobs in Austria. It is about companies that can keep employees in operation, which applies to large enterprises, medium-sized and especially small businesses. With this short work we have created a special red-and-white-red model, which There are no other countries. You do not see this in Germany, although there is short work there, but not to a uniform degree across Germany, or in another country – you can also see this from the unemployment figures there, which are much higher than those in Austria. Let me say the following: The small companies are just as important to me as the medium-sized and the large companies – all together make up the location of Austria. It is this ecosystem of companies that we need to support with this comprehensive package, with this package, which includes different measures and is suitable for different sizes, but also for different business situations. An economic package must enable a comeback of the Austrian economy, because we all want it together. Even if the tunnel will be longer than we wish: At the end of this tunnel there is a light. In addition to the emergency aid with the 38 billion euros, we also have a team working on a future package, on what Austria needs for the future, so that a comeback, a red-and-white comeback for the location in Austria succeeds. The state is in a certain way able to protect companies in the crisis – we have seen it now – but our task must be to create such conditions that companies can make their own revenues again, on their own initiative, that they can generate growth, because they create jobs in Austria – and that is the most important thing for us: to secure jobs together in Austria and also to secure the future of companies. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] That is why we must also pay attention to future measures, and I would just like to take one of them out of this. It is investment in digitalization, which will be important for the Austrian site, and I would like to focus on this in particular. It has already been mentioned by Mr Haubner that he calls on all Austrians to buy in Austria, and I would like to join him. Consumers in Austria have the chance to buy locally, and this is not only on the spot, but of course it is also on a digital way. For this, there is the online marketplace where you can see that the Austrian marketplaces can also keep up with platforms such as Amazon and others. I mean, it's now time to think and also support the Austrian trading companies that are experiencing such a difficult time. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Of course we must not forget the export! Austria is an export country, and our SMEs are very, very strong in exports. Their supply chains are largely interrupted, and we are helping them to realign the supply chains strategically. For me, it is quite clear that more needs to be produced in Europe, more needs to be produced in Austria, more independent of existing global networks. This will continue to exist and we will continue to export, but we will also have to bring production sites to Europe and Austria more and more; I only recall the topic of penicillin and, in general, antibiotics or also medical protection equipment. I am pleased that we succeeded in quickly raising production of FFP masks in Austria with the company Grabher in Vorarlberg. This shows the strength of our medium-sized companies and the strength they have with which we will also support them. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] It is important that we now enter a new phase – in a phase of construction, in a phase of support, by providing support to companies for a digital eco-social market economy with all the measures it needs. We have a lot of tools for this, such as SMEs digital, Fit4Internet, a digital action plan for the Republic of Austria – we have not talked about it in recent weeks, but we have been working on it. I think it is important that the Austrian companies can rely on us, that we stand by them both in the crisis and in the future, and that we design this red and white comeback together with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e5730	The next item is Mrs Smodics-Neumann. From now on: 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e5752	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Dr. Schramböck! Dear Mrs Mag. Aschbacher! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians! – And all the people who live here, of course, I imply that, because I am not talking about proof of citizenship. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: All the people who live here!]] [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lightness: This is a... by the woman minister!]] As we have now explained this, I should like to thank you very much for the measures taken by the government at this very challenging time; no one of us could have imagined before this time that so much is different from today to tomorrow. I think Austria has proved again – I mean both the decision-makers in Austria and the Austrian population and the Austrian entrepreneurs – that with its small parts it is perhaps better than some other state than some other European companies. This small part of it means a certain degree of flexibility, which is good, this small part of the situation, but also in the current situation, that, of course, there is much more work to be done for those who do the assistance measures, because many small, individual applications have to be processed, whether in the field of hardening funds or in the field of short-time work. I believe that this is particularly important, and I should like to thank several places in this context: first – and this is the most important – a warm thanks to all those entrepreneurs, citizens and citizens, who, despite existing fear – of course, there is fear, because it is a situation that none of us have known, and all that we do not know causes fear – have proved to be patient in principle, so that systems and structures can form within which all of this is handled. – Thank you very much for preserving peace, being patient and trusting in it – and I am aware of that – that everything is coming into the right lanes and that the funds are also flowing, just as we already feel massively. This, of course, has also caused a lot of pressure on the part of the companies. Anyone who knows what the 15. means in a month or the 25. in a month knows what massive costs suddenly come on one. It also needs a little security or certainty: Okay, it'll work sometime! - And it works better every day. A warm thanks to the employees of the AMS, who provide powerful ones who were originally definitely not trained to cope with these quantities. [[towards Federal Minister Aschbacher]] You do it anyway, therefore, a very, very great thank you – if you, Mrs. Minister, please pass it on to the employees who are still providing psychological help. [[Federal Minister Aschbacher nockt]] Thank you for that. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Over the last few weeks, the division of action has been repeatedly criticized. Last week she was in criticism again and again and it was asked: Why does this do the Chamber of Commerce and not anyone else? – I believe that it is also an Austrian particularity that everyone does what he does well. [[Abg. Lightness: Yes, that's right...!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] The figures also show that it was quite reasonable to deal with this in this form. Throughout Austria, 82 percent of the hardness fund for entrepreneurs is handled, the rest for so-called non-members. In Vienna the ratio is 75 : 25. So I think it was an important and good step to deal with this. I would also like to say a warm thank you for this activity. You can believe that even the employees of the Chambers of Commerce are working on high-speed tours to deal with this, and that is not the most important task of these employees. - Thank you for doing that! No one's gonna hear it now, because they're on the phone and they're gonna wrap it up. Thank you for your commitment! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] And to give perspective: I am happy to hear that we are thinking about bringing productions back to Austria. The challenge will be to involve the small-scale economy too; that is, there may be new opportunities for small businesses to work together on a product. I am looking forward to the new ideas, to the new variants that will arise here. I think that the local companies will really benefit. Even if it doesn't look like that at the moment – it's important to me to tell the entrepreneurs: There will be a good future for us. We may have to change this one or the other, but I really trust in the flexibility of the Austrian entrepreneurs and their employees, so that new and great things arise, with a large Austrian sign on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e5851	The next word to speak is Clubobfrau Pamela Rendi-Wagner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e5872	Mr President. Dear women Federal ministers! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, there are three current figures in Austria, which cannot be topped by words: It is the number of 600 000 – 600 000 people currently unemployed in Austria; the largest number since 1946. It is the number 1 100,000 – that is the number of people who are currently reported for short work. And it's the number 7 – it's 7 percent, according to IMF, that's going to be the downturn of the economy in the next few months and years. That is 30 billion euros, ladies and gentlemen who will miss our economy, 30 billion! We are in this situation, and many unemployed people in this country do not know when they will have a job again, many businesses do not know whether they have an economic future because of the uncertain order situation. Yes, and on whom – on whom? – can all these people in Austria be left at the moment? Is it the free market they can rely on? Is it the free market that now regulates everything in the crisis for the people and the entrepreneurs? – No, that really leads us to this crisis, this great no. It's not the free market! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger hits hands over the head.]] It is the state which, in this greatest century crisis – Mr Haubner has also mentioned this in his speech here in the plenary session – which in this crisis gives protection and security to people and entrepreneurs, protection and security against the case in nothing, in the health, social and economic respects, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Wöginger: This is a Marxism speech!]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: The Safety...!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I remember very well: A few weeks ago, when aid was announced by the Federal Government, it was the Minister of Finance who personally said: “It costs what it wants. ” “It costs what it wants” – this attitude still needs it now; not only at the beginning of this crisis, but also now, especially now, when it comes to the existence of 100,000 people and more, because it will soon become more, families, entrepreneurs. I wonder why this sentence, which was said so loudly by the Federal Government a few weeks ago over all microphones, should not apply right now and why you have repeatedly rejected our request for an increase in unemployment benefit in the last days and weeks and weeks. It's not understandable! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is not only in human terms a command of the hour to help early and to help well, it is also nationally wise and necessary to help early to prevent social consequences for families, especially the affected children, who will at the end cost a lot, much more money. However, it is equally necessary to make high and smart investments in the economy and employment, future investments in the necessary climate protection, investment in public transport, in housing. This creates jobs, thus creating necessary jobs for our domestic businesses. The crisis has also shown – and we must not forget this now and especially after the crisis – how vulnerable we are all, how vulnerable our economy and our country, our continent are through the dependence on a global economic system. No human can understand that we have to wait for months for protective masks from China and they cannot be produced in Europe or in Austria – only now after two months. We have to think carefully about what we are going to get back to Austria in production, bring us to Europe – more made in Austria or made in Europe, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If we remember these days of the establishment of the Second Republic, we must also remember that the values of democracy and freedom are just as little self-evident today as they were then. It was the German chancellor who described the current situation very strikingly a few days ago in the Bundestag as “democratic expression” for all of us. In order for this to remain the case, it takes perceptibility and transparency in the key decisions for the future that we need to make together.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e5957	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e5973	Criticism and opposition must not only be allowed, but must be actively demanded, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e6000	Member of the Angerer Chamber has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e6021	Mr President. Estimated ministers! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! [[The speaker puts a panel on which are pictured in front of red-and-white background coronaviruses and the inscription “Allianz gegen Coronawahnsinsinn.at – Now it’s enough!” can be read on the speaker’s desk.]] I have to say, it really is courage to do what the ÖVP is doing today. To bring yourself here after weeks of black and green corona insanity and to convene a current hour on the subject of "[...] security for the location, the companies and the workplaces" is one of these is really courage, Mr. Wöginger. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wöginger:... promotions!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: But you did not do that until it was too late!]] [[Calls and calls between representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] After weeks of shutdown – 1.1 million people in short work, 600 000, 700 000 unemployed, 25 percent of companies at risk of insolvency – the ÖVP is here and is making a current hour to help the economy. Is that what you're showing, courage, or is that simply limitless superiority? There's a saying: Fear begins in the head, courage too. – You need to convert this at the moment: Fear begins with short, courage with head! because Mr. Kopf has called this present hour. The only thing you've done in the last few weeks is to startle fear, and you've really done it perfectly. They put the Austrian population in fear and terror. But with regard to the support of the domestic economy, this was not only a shot in the knee, as a very successful entrepreneur has called it, but it was a shot at the heart of the entrepreneurs who have built up their companies with heart blood, which lead these companies with heart blood, who have built up their existence to use their assets in these companies that fight for their families, for their jobs, for their workers they have employed in these companies for decades. They're letting these companies hang up now. That's your economic policy, that's your help for these companies! - That's a shot in the heart! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They have set up a variety of funds. I do not need to explain to everyone what you have done, because it is already very meaningful how often you need to change, how often you have to touch it. Today, you have to set a minimum bonus of 500 euros at the hardness fund, because such absurdities arise that for example, for someone who has overcome the bureaucratic obstacles and whose application is approved, cent amounts or euro amounts come out in the single-digit area. [[Abg. Head: They show me the cent amounts got! Always stick to the truth!]] Peter Haubner, what's the matter with you? [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Aren't you ashamed? I mean, that's embarrassing what's happening. Aren't you ashamed? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The Chamber of Commerce, Mr Kopf, refuses to resort to its reserves. These are not the reserves of the Chamber of Commerce, these are the reserves of the traders. They've paid you the entrepreneurs they've earned hard. Every businessman needs to dissolve his reserves today, take the reserves back in order to get over the rounds. [[new calls to the ÖVP]] Mrs. Minister, if an entrepreneur has the water to his head, he doesn't need a shield – he'll be very grateful for drowning with it – but a rescue ring. Give the company a rescue ring, but not a shield! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now you're talking about driving up the economy. I spoke to a tourist yesterday – Mr Schellhorn himself has a hotel – who does not know how to do: When can he lock up? Who can he take, what guests, and how many? What do his staff have to do? How long does he have to employ the staff so he can perhaps send it in short-time? What happens if a corona case occurs in this company when the operation has already been raised again? If he then has to lock up again, will the operation be quarantined? Then what is he doing? Do you think he'll lock up again? How's that going?- Oh, my God! This total uncertainty in which you leave the companies is an insanity. I can't. You finally have to create clarity. Mr Anschober stood up today and said that it is now clear: If you live in a common household, you have to keep one meter apart! So now I have to separate myself from my wife, we have to live in separate households so that I can get closer to her than 1 meter. That's crazy what you're doing! Now you announce a business package. Because of what you have done so far, Mrs Minister, we must see this as a dangerous threat. That is why we have developed a very simple economic package – that is important, you do it simply; it is something very important that our clubman has already announced today – namely the Austrian voucher: Each Austrian receives a voucher of 1 000 euros. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is one thing in the economy. These vouchers – from the infant to the big one 1 000 euros; we are talking about around 8.5 billion euros – come to one in the economy, they are redeemed by an Austrian company. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] We've been doing this for years, Mr. Wöginger, dear Gust Wöginger, with us in the community, and this works perfectly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] People even buy the vouchers to give them for their birthday. This remains regional, it remains in the region and is therefore exactly what I have called for. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This remains with regional companies. Do this, do the Austrian voucher! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e6167	Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e6189	Mr President. Minister and Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Values spectators in front of the screens! We're talking about the easings these days. We have long weeks of the Corona crisis behind us, while the people in Austria have been in solidarity with the very intensive measures. We have refused to celebrate Easter with our family and to embrace the grandma personally for birthday. Now, in the week of relaxation, many of us are looking forward to going out in secret – the weather is beautiful – and to doing something with family and friends again. The crisis has also shown us what is really important in life: Health, solidarity and security, including financial security. At the same time, for many people in Austria, despite the reliefs, there can be no mention of recurring normality or security. Many have lost their job, many do not know how to proceed. Many have been in financial difficulties due to the corona crisis. People who have been in precarious situations before now are even worse. The strict downfall we started in early March was certainly the right way to risk no overload of our health system. But this health crisis brings economic problems, potentially an economic crisis, and now, after protecting people from the danger of losing their lives through the virus, or they themselves, it is our task to protect people from unemployment and poverty. [[Cheerfulness of Deputies Belakovich and Worm]] [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as SPÖ Members.]] Last week, in my speech, I pointed out that the economy and public life should be re-enhanced also means that social networks should be re-enhanced, that they are getting closer and that we are particularly concerned about those who are potentially dependent. We are taking a number of measures today to help the people who have become unemployed, who have come in very difficult situations. This is done on the one hand by extending the protection of income and work for all unemployed people and by guaranteeing the level of unemployment benefit for all emergency workers; this also means, for those who are already in emergency aid, an income increase of 10 percent. Today, we decide to double the Family Hard Fund to 60 million euros – 30 million euros we have already decided for those who have become unemployed through Corona, 30 million euros are now being added to those who were unemployed before – and the possibility to spend three months on rents and credit repayments, and a very long period of time to pay off these leases, namely by mid-2022. These are measures that relieve financially burdened households. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] These are up to 140 million euros, which land directly in the wallets of people who are now particularly affected by unemployment. Aid to such an extent did not exist for these groups after the economic crisis, after the 2008 financial crash. That is what we must do now, but of course it is necessary to create and guarantee longer-term security. We all now know how it feels to be in the crisis. But there is another crisis that was already there before Corona and which we now have to devote ourselves to during Corona and to Corona: This is the climate crisis. There will be no vaccination against these, but only radical rethinking will help in the economy. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Safe jobs and sustainable economy are two things that are not only wonderfully interconnected, but that need to be linked. We come out of this crisis, from the climate crisis, from the corona crisis and from the crisis of unemployment by creating green jobs by investing massively in a sustainable future, both for climate and for the environment as well as for jobs. We need a labour market policy, we need employment that protects against poverty, and so we now need targeted investments to secure people and also safeguard our climate and the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e6258	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e6280	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me begin by saying a few words about 75 years of Second Republic, since yesterday it was a very important day in Austria – actually a day to celebrate and a reason to be proud of what was achieved, a day to think back in gratitude, especially in gratitude for how much was given to fight for this freedom, for prosperity and for peace. 75 years of peace and prosperity, we have not done this alone. It is important to me today to stress that the achievements of freedom, prosperity and peace were pan-European and, in particular, European unity. If I want to give a vision or a prospect of the future of Austria, it is important to me that this unity in Europe also persists because it is a guarantee, if you want, that it is the only guarantee of peace, freedom and prosperity. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I think in the future it will need more liberalism and definitely no less. Illiberality and authoritarianism are not the future we want to see in Austria. It needs more transparency, more trust, more accountability of the rulers, more reliability and no less. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to go into it in detail now, but what it definitely does not need in the future is a policy of fear or fear. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Freedom in commitment – if I have a vision, then this one. Let us take this path together, in freedom and commitment! This brings me to another subject that I would like to raise very up-to-date now. I heard the press conference of the Federal Government at 8 p.m. today, and gratefully, a press release of the Federal Government has been sent along and distributed to us clubs. It should be read on the subject of clarity and reliability, and the rule of law is always an important issue that has been addressed. I am not quoting everything now, but on the subject of starting restrictions there are: “We also recommend to people in the private sector that they also comply with these regulations.” – This is about how many people, that is, a maximum of ten people, and by a distance. – ‘In the private sector, however, there will be no controls at all at this stage.’ [[Rejoicing by Mr Kickl.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this does not exactly help to ensure that there is confidence, confidence and reliability! Legal certainty also means that today I would like to have the guarantee that you will leave us in the private area, in our apartments please in future! [[I would like to appeal to Mr Neos and Mr FPÖ, as well as to the members of the SPÖ.]] Reliability and trust are also good words for the question of economic aid. As radical as the government has done during the shutdown, with great gesture, so it would have been essential to be conscientious and, above all, close to it in practice. And I like to say this for the hundredth time – because I also often get the impression that you like to go into polarization, reject criticism as scepticism, and you must not confuse that –: We have not only contributed to the measures in March, we have partly encouraged and stimulated them – that is important to me – but also stressed the importance of paying attention to this balance between health, society and the economy, and the importance of the practical view of the impact on society and the economy. The great gesture was also there – not quite at the beginning, but relatively soon, after some reminders – when it was said: “It costs what it wants!” – This is, of course, a statement that some entrepreneurs, who now, weeks and countless hours later, find that they have to pay for the crisis themselves, lead the cock and the mockery in their eyes. “It costs what it wants!” means that many entrepreneurs pay for this crisis themselves. And you know that too! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I have held here last week a very passionate plea that children and families need an enhanced lobby in this government, and I am glad that this has also shown effect. Today, I would like to hold this passionate plea for the many entrepreneurs – EPUs, artists, start-ups – who leave you alone in a bureaucrat youth looking for the same thing: It needs transparency and reliability, because the effects are massive. Mrs. Aschbacher! What is the current unemployment rate? [[Call:600,000]] I'd really be interested in that. [[Abg. Loacker:... Cabinet can be...!]] We've got the number one. April: 600,000 people. We know that there are 1.1 million applications for short-time work, i.e. we can assume that at the end of April we may already have almost half of the self-employed workers in Austria without work – either unemployed or in short-time work. Your remarks and insults are a mockery in view of these figures, which you do not even reveal to us.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e6353	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e6368	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Genuine economic aid means quick money to entrepreneurs and not to allow them to finance the crisis themselves. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e6406	Mr Melchior is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e6427	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I held a newspaper two days ago, that was from the January. And if we consider which topics we have been working on in January, we see that a lot has changed within a few weeks. [[Abg. Belakovich: We have at the end of April!]] We now have weeks behind us who have faced great challenges. We were suddenly faced with the challenge of protecting people, of ensuring that we do not overload the health system. We have the situation that companies need state aid that people have lost their jobs or are in short work. We have experienced that people are lonely, we have experienced that people have become sick, and we have also experienced that people have not survived the Corona era. - All of this has got us busy. But we also see what has influenced us at this time, namely an inconceivable cohesion, a closeness in Austria, which is inconceivable. At this point, I would like to thank all those who have held so close together in this crisis and so determinedly passed through this crisis. – Thank you! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] But we experience that this crisis is not a crisis that exists only in Austria; no, it is a global crisis. Each country is affected, and different countries are very different from this topic, with this aggressive virus. Some countries have not responded at all, others have responded very late, others have reacted very lax. Last week, for example, the Freedom Party referred to Sweden as the model of success. First, the liberals have called for the complete shutdown, then they have highlighted the model Sweden and now they are talking about “Coronavahnism”. I think it is good that the Federal Government does not take a zigzag course, but that there has been a consistent and careful approach by the Federal Government. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Just as there has been cohesion during the health crisis, there is now a need for cohesion with regard to the economic crisis. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] We have to stick together. We've done so much in Austria. Yesterday we celebrated the 75th anniversary of the Republic, and there we saw: The look back also makes sure: We will master this crisis and we will emerge from it with new strength! The Federal Government has already put in place many measures, including for entrepreneurs. Thank you to the Federal Government for all the measures that have been taken! The hardness fund, the guarantees, the short-time work – including this issue has already been addressed – are really important measures that have been put in place. But one thing has already been said today: We need the comeback for Austria, and we need a great effort to do this. I am very grateful to the Chancellor in this regard that he made the following very clear yesterday in his speech We have to relieve people, especially those with low and medium salaries, as soon as possible. [[Abg. Lightness: That's...!]] – This is social justice and that is what we want. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We also want to give back the strength to companies, we want to support them in this way, and we want to invest. We want to give companies the opportunity to create jobs, which will make them as easy as possible. If we all combine our efforts together, we will master the crisis. I'm convinced of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e6505	Mr Wimmer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e6559	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My very much appreciated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haubner at the beginning and right now Mr Melchior did not forget to thank the Federal Chancellor. Ladies and gentlemen, these virtues should end slowly. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Wöger: Why?]] This superiority, this infallibility, this Messiahlike one will be – among friends said – slowly ridiculous and embarrassing, my highly valued ladies and gentlemen, especially because the Federal Chancellor is not infallible: [[Complaints with the SPÖ and with representatives of FPÖ and NEOS]] In the meantime – since we heard about it yesterday at breakfast on the radio – we know about a protocol that shows how the strategy has been set up. So I'd be a little more careful. Whenever the ÖVP is caught, the first point is: It's a fake. [[Mr Hafenecker and Mr Kickl.]] It's a fake, something happened. – If you do a little research and then it becomes a little more accurate, you will be relativized and say: Well, that wasn't meant to be. Let me say quite clearly: To spread fear, to arouse uncertainty, to deliberately drive people into insecurity, to strengthen fears with images – these are practices that we know about dictatorships, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Whoever makes such a thing aware acts downright, dear friends! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] If this protocol of crisis is not really a fake, then the Chancellor needs action. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Yesterday, there was once again a press conference – I am not counting anymore because there are some on a daily basis – and the German Chancellor has set a great goal of moving forward the deregulation of the economy. If you hear that, you know, that's a little dangerous, because we know the list: Gold Plating and so on, holiday and Christmas money are called into question, more than three weeks of vacation are called into question. [[Abg. Steinacker: Go!]] We have to be a little lightly, ladies and gentlemen. If deregulation means reducing the protection of workers, if deregulation means restricting workers' rights, then you will have to expect a great deal of resistance from us, ladies and gentlemen of the government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let us look at a recent example: What is happening at the moment with the airlines Ryanair and Laudamotion, ladies and gentlemen, is contemptible! As employees are extorted, wage and salary relinquishing as well as relinquishing all social benefits with the threat that otherwise the site will be closed are ordered. Ladies and gentlemen, if this is understood by deregulation, we will set up a tree for the Federal Government! [[Congratulations and bravoruf at SPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] The 38 billion euros have already been mentioned: Yes, that's a lot of money, and it's also good to get under the arms of the economy. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, but you have forgotten the most important players, you have forgotten the many colleagues who keep this country running, who do their work day and night, so that we can get everything we need to live. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] This is a welcome, although it is praised here, it is practically knocked on their shoulders, but, ladies and gentlemen, people can't bite down from the shoulder knock! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We, the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, therefore launched an initiative last week to give people money. So far, we have collected more than 100 000 signatures for the Corona Thousand. If you've forgotten the people so far, ladies and gentlemen of the government, please do it now! People need this very urgently. Let me conclude by saying another sentence. The Federal Chancellor has announced everywhere in the last few days: ==References== May we'll drive our country up again. – This is not a promise, we know that the chancellor is very well formulated and knows exactly what he is saying. At the last plenary session, he formulated the same three times. There was then another interview from a German station in which he formulated it so again. I would really like to say this clearly, because I now have the opportunity to hold on once and for all: Mr. Bundeskanzler, you're going on 1st. Don't let anything down! - Excuse me, you're not going up! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] You drive on 1st. No way up! ==References== May is the day of the state, ladies and gentlemen, and we are not going to let the Chancellor do it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We don't let this holiday take away, either, just as it happened on Friday. It's cold-sneezing.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e6679	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e6695	Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e6735	Mr Ragger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e6757	Now, if rest comes back to the house, we'll put something in the right light. [[The speaker puts a panel on which are pictured in front of red-and-white background coronaviruses and the inscription “Allianz gegen Coronawahnsinsinn.at – Now it’s enough!” can be read on the speaker’s desk.]] Mr President. Estimated Minister! Dear Members of the House! I remember a show in the ORF, which has called “Tell children” – I don’t know if it still knows the older generation –: There you have always seen children explain and try a term in their childish way. It's similar to that in the government: You also try to talk about something that you basically have an idea about in farthest distance. We really want to get into the right light today, what this government has done to us. Apart from the fact that you almost believe you're in a Hollywood crime, you put the bar up very high, leading this whole country in fear and terror, yelling: You will know the dead, and then you will create an economic package. This wonderful economic package of this government, with the signature of the ÖVP and the by car of the Greens, I would like to present to you today: ==References== We decide on 4 billion euros on March; Mrs. Schramböck turns out and says: We will help small and medium-sized enterprises! ==References== In March, Mrs Schramböck collected EUR 8.6 billion in tax revenue from all her ministers. That's where we make the first surplus. Then, a few days later, we're making a hardening fund of 18 billion euros. How did Didi Mateschitz say? – Shoot our knees when we take it! – Take an emergency fund based on loans on liabilities! That is, you are buying it to owe our entrepreneurs for the next ten, 20 years! Are you aware of that? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then we come to the third highlight: The Chancellor and the Minister of Finance are standing out and saying to us: Yes, yes, we will also give you guarantees! We will give you liability at the AWS! So, and we'll give you tax receipts! – These are two areas, and I am not sure if you understood what that means. – Tax receipts can only be given if you have previously taken a tax. But you can't take anything if you don't have a company that still pays taxes. That is to say, these have been money from our companies that you have been big and willful. This is not our way of politics, how we want it and how we understand it. On the other hand, we fight with the European Union for weeks and talk about the last 20 percent that every bank has to ensure – otherwise you have an infidelity stock – and no one says with one word that Mrs. Schramböck, no one says that it is not just about 20 percent, but also within the 80 percent of this AWS arrest, the AWS requires a security from the entrepreneurs personally. That is, we are talking from 30 to 35 percent, which they have to set as equity. You missed it all! [[Federal Minister Schramböck: That is absolutely lying!]] That's what my businessmen tell me every day. We accompany 500 companies in my law firm, believe me, I know what I am talking about every day and what problems we have in reality – unlike the ivory tower in which you sit! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Why all this is so easy to understand is relatively simple: Be honest with what you've done! They've got us on the 15th. March put a package on the eye with which you have converted an unlimited legal claim in the Epidemie Act we have had into a hardening fund, out of fear that you will not get to grips with this problem of the Corona crisis. What happened in there? – legal claim for all entrepreneurs, legal claim for every holding that is locked! That's what you've done: out of an unlimited claim, you've made a hardness fund, in which every entrepreneur has to become a bitter. This is not our kind of policy either, so we have said that we now have to take the opportunity to ensure the most important asset in economic development, and that is to say, only by itself: Consumption. How can we consume? – By giving every Austrian money: 1 000 euros for every Austrian he has to spend in a farm in Austria! – We understand this by economic policy and development! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If your plan has slowly gotten a deal, then look into the other states, what is happening now, because one will certainly be: If you don't get under control of this economy, your well-esteemed Federal Chancellor, including the green alternative government, will soon find an end, just as the Corona crisis ends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e6824	Member of the European Parliament is entitled to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e6846	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen. The government's economic emergency measures, within the meaning of the title of this current hour and contrary to the demands of you, have effectively helped to secure jobs and businesses for 1.1 million workers in short-time work; for hundreds of thousands of individuals who have been helped very quickly with the hardness fund, whose relationship is constantly being expanded; for countless SMEs, who have been secured payment capacity and who, depending on their loss of turnover, also receive a grant to fixed costs, not only loans and guarantees. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger]] However, it was also important for us that the loads are fairly distributed, i.e. that the policies of the Corona crisis fund ensure that there is assistance for large companies only if the employees are not terminated but are sent to the maximum in short work if dividends are not distributed and manager bonuses are limited. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and Deputies Baumgartner and Gabriela Schwarz.]] [[Abg. Lightenness: That was now little applause at the ÖVP...!]] Thank you, perhaps from you, Mr Leichtfried! In addition, in all measures, companies are required to have significant operational activities in Austria and not to postpone their profits in tax havens. That, I think, is a success that also shows a green manuscript. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Hechenberger.]] I know that this will be little comforting for those 600,000 unemployed and for the EPCs who may have been slipped through the aid measures, but I also know about the serious efforts of the Federal Government to continually improve instruments when it turns out that gaps exist somewhere. At the same time, however, there is a new phase in which immediate action and bridging must be replaced by long-term, demand-effective measures, and this also requires a look forward, i.e. in the medium and long term, to secure the location, jobs and businesses. How does the economic and working world look like or with Corona? –The strategy advice McKinsey expects, among other things, that physical distance will again play a greater role. In other words, the global value chain has shown itself to be too crisis-sensitive, and regional production is likely to come to the fore again. Efficiency considerations are supplemented by resilience considerations; there is a connex to the climate crisis – you can hear it already, I think. Human contacts along the value chain will be reduced from raw material gain to sales. The importance of the state will increase; governments are already taking greater action, and they will do so in the future. A forward-looking economic policy is taking advantage of all these changes, and many of these effects of the corona crisis that I have just listed result in synergies in dealing with the climate crisis. In any event, a medium-term location policy can only be understood within the meaning of the global sustainability objectives, in which sustainability, social justice and sustainable economic development are consistent and short-term economic interests are not given priority. [[Congratulations with the Greens as well as by Mr Haubner and Mr Gabriela Schwarz.]] Let us take advantage of the experience and insights that this crisis has brought, and let us jointly put in place ambitious measures in the areas of transport, buildings, aviation, care and also tourism! We have seen what we can give up and what we do not want to give up. We don't want to fight for every square meter of concrete. We have seen that there have been empty streets and parking spaces and how much space the cars take. I believe that we have identified the forced climbs and the narrow entrances to the federal gardens, where we urgently need the place. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The purely regional productions are valued again, even professions that have not been particularly appreciated for a long time are now valued again. Taking real transport costs into account would help us to make our economy more competitive while at the same time combating climate change. We have also recognized that in terms of work, much can be done from home, that we can save many working paths. At the same time, we have found that this requires good schools, continuous childcare and broadband connections. And we have experienced that many young people in this crisis for weeks have failed to meet friends, go to school, to colleges, to sports and to parties, and have often helped older and needy. Climate protection is the opportunity to bring this solidarity to young people as well. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Smolle.]] The Corona crisis has destroyed many jobs, but especially investments in climate protection, which are employment-intensive – you think about thermal renovation – can contribute to creating jobs again. Politics was not hesitant in this crisis, but determined. The early response has paid off, and so it is in the climate. This government, in particular, has undertaken to unite economic, social and environmental sustainability, and I believe that economic and economic policies in the coming months will also reflect this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e6931	Mr Schellhorn is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e6953	Mr President. Minister! Minister! Estimated Minister, from my WhatsApp news, I can conclude that many entrepreneurs have asked themselves: What's the current hour? We already have 61 political press conferences behind us – what does the ÖVP or the Minister of Economic Affairs now want to tell us? Peter Haubnerhat mentioned that the performance of the companies in the past was very high. That's true, but suffering is much greater, and you're putting it at risk when I remember how it's been thrown around in the past with numbers you've tried to give the company confidence. The Minister of Finance has said that 10 billion euros, a few days later the Federal Chancellor said that 14 billion euros have already been transferred; both have said: have already been transferred. Mr Blümel, Minister of Finance, said that 400 million euros had already been agreed to the Chamber of Commerce. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schramböck.]] The Minister for Economic Affairs has spoken of 38 billion euros, but he has not said how this will be done. Together with spokesperson Treichl and Minister Blümel, she said: Yours Don't worry, dear entrepreneurs; 100 percent liability, that works quite unbureaucratic! I made a call to the entrepreneurs on Friday and asked them to describe what they have to do with problems, and I can tell you that half of them – more than 500 answers – complain about liquidity problems. [[keep a thick pack of paper in height]] None of my previous speakers said anything about the Basel III criteria that banks must follow! I also have these liquidity problems, and they are likely to break the cross because I fell into the short-term trap. Like me, it's crazy to have a lot of entrepreneurs. I have to tell you, it is already a special challenge to stand out here and have to think about it: How long will I survive with my company? – And all this because you have been promising everything you do for seven weeks, and there is nothing to do with entrepreneurs! That's the dramatic! That's really dramatic. [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] I wonder, What does the Minister of Economic Affairs want to tell me as an entrepreneur when she says that so many billions have been transferred – and there is nothing about the individual companies? It is really dramatic how to take account of Sonja Lauterbach's comments, which actually represent the EPCs in the social media: They're all dying! Now to the gastronomy: It is really dramatic when a finding entrepreneur, one of the best chefs in Vienna, in Austria, is thinking about how he can survive that, how he can achieve liquidity – not profitability, but simply the lurch of turnover – and then the market office closes his operation. He's not dirty, he's just had a well-founded idea. This is bureaucracy! They always tell us something about debureaucratisation, but nothing happens! That's the sad one. That really saddens me. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It makes me sad if even Max Buzanich, who is a smoker – you could still say, okay, smoker-returner – says he doesn't know how he'll manage, because there's nothing to clean in a lot of homes in the holiday regions. It makes me sad when I have to say to little Gabriel, who is probably sitting in front of the TV now and watching us because he's not in school and he's interested in politics that once told me he wants to become a businessman: There's pretty low when you do that! The APA published a survey yesterday, according to which 48 percent of all households in Austria expect less income. In Tyrol and Salzburg, the number is even much higher, with 78 percent of revenue being lost. This is dramatic, which weakens our purchasing power. Mrs Aschbacher is still unable to report to us current unemployment figures. It's like Beate Meinl-Risinger said: Half of all employees in Austria are currently not at work. They can't do any work, they can't generate income – and that's dramatic. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Stefan.]] The question now is also: What would I need as an entrepreneur, what would we need in here? – We would need a quality of data, not only for the unemployment rate, but also for the quality of data that has been washed; we would have to be the best. It is not about most press conferences, but about the best data provided transparently, with a monitoring and a roadmap. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and by Mr Schnedlitz and Mr Worm]] Es The best schedule won't help if you can't hang it out. Talking about it is very nice and nice, but you have to hang out the schedule. Tourism, entrepreneurs need to know where the journey goes when the infection curve goes down, which reliefs there may be in a Europe of the regions. Instead, you keep the hope that it will last 14 days. May not only the gastronomy, but also the hotel industry is allowed to lock up to tell them: No, it's only two weeks later that the hotel company is going to lock up! – What does that mean?
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e7046	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies. You're far above that.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e7061	Mr President, today there is an addition like at the Opera House, today it takes a little longer! [[General hustle and bustle.]] These are the issues on which we are now dealing. We need timetables, we need perspectives and we need economic experts who understand something about entrepreneurship, the industry and the sector, and we need a master plan. In the same way as in the cultural field, a roadmap is needed in the economic field. Don't talk about it, hang it out! [[Abg. Deimek: You don't know what they're doing! Unfortunately!]] I'd like to read you a few more scumbags.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e7097	Mr deputies, you are far over time.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e7112	One! One thing!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e7131	It's a treat, all right.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e7165	A young businessman is not being promoted, the Chamber of Commerce informs him: You're not yet a member of the Chamber of Commerce for more than two years! - Nice night, Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e7193	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:28:38]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e7214	I may, in respect of the negotiated items and their allocations, according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure refer to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e7384	I should also like to say that Mr Kollross has requested that the Budget Committee report on Amendment 478/A(E) to the Committee on Budgets a deadline of 30. In April 2020, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. This short debate will take place after completion of the agenda, but at the latest at 3 p.m. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of this debate. Before entering the agenda, I should also like to say that Mr Leichfried has requested that the Constitutional Committee report to the 60/A request a deadline until 30. In April 2020, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the Member States of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and The motion for a resolution shall be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e7409	In order to be able to negotiate items 28 to 30 of the agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the submission of the Committee's reports. Points 28 to 30 are the report of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on Amendment 409/A by Mrs Scherak, Mr Krainer, Mr Krainer (147 of the Supplements), the report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I would ask the ladies and gentlemen to give their agreement to the withdrawal from the time-limit for these committee reports. – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e7442	It is proposed that the debates on points 1 and 2, 3 and 4, 5 to 8, 9 to 11, 12 to 14, 17 and 18, 20 and 21, 22 and 23, 24 and 25, 26 and 27, and 29 and 30 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e7463	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: 176 minutes for the ÖVP, 122 minutes for the SPÖ, 99 minutes for the FPÖ, 90 minutes for the greens and 72 minutes for the NEOS. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club, each 36 minutes; the speaking time per debate shall be 5 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote on speaking time. Who is for it, I ask him to give a sign. – That too is unanimous. [[10:32:05]] 1. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Markus Koza, colleagues in a federal law which amends the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act, the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act, the Wage Law 1956, and the Contracting Staff Act 1948 (9. COVID-19 Act) (120 d.a.) 2. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 423/A(E) by Dr Dagmar Belakovich, colleagues on COVID-19 Risk attestation for workers at risk (121 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e7525	We now come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Member of the Muchitsch Chamber has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e7557	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We come to Agenda item 1, on which I would like to draw an opinion. These are the rules on risk groups, which are new and therefore made clearer and more visible. I would like to remind you: Since March, the SPÖ has called for a clear regime for those people who are additionally and particularly affected by this virus due to pre-disease of Covid-19. Since March, we have been calling for this, and in the end, the Federal Government has declared in a press conference: Yes, these risk groups need to be regulated! It took a very long time for this to be clear, and yes, a group of experts who apparently had a clear mandate, namely the task of defining these parameters on the one hand, on the other hand, to keep this risk group as small as possible. How else can it be explained that experts say that the risk group is ultimately much bigger and wider to define? It has been agreed that the umbrella of social security funds these persons, around 67 000, from 4. May inform in writing and inform them of these parameters very clearly, namely that they are risk patients due to their medication and have the opportunity to visit a doctor, a doctor who has the opportunity to issue a risk test concerning Covid-19. This risk test will then be used together with the employer to find a solution regarding home office or safe workplace in operation. If all of this is not guaranteed, there is a legal claim, a legal right to exemption from work. This is the regulation that we have been so presented here today for decision-making. I would like to say that since the last decision about three weeks ago, a lot has changed on the positive side in this area, but many things have also remained negative. I would now like to address these points. It is very positive that this regulation, which is available here today, also includes those people working in system-related areas belonging to the group of employees in critical infrastructure sectors. It is also positive that consideration is given to the way these risk patients are going to work and work at home; this is now included. It is also essential that – due to a clear list – not only medication is used, but that each physician should be able to issue a corresponding certificate using an additional field in this risk test. In the end, this is also the point where the negative now arises, namely that the protection of termination is still flawed, that family protection is also missing, for example as regards people with severe diseases to be cared for, up to high-risk patients among their families. The last point is that we have not succeeded in including mothers as a risk group, although the government parties in the Committee last week assured us that there will be further talks to this day. The fact that there has been no movement of the government parties in this respect is actually a pity. This is also the criticism, namely that the protection of termination has not been improved, that the caring families and also the becoming mothers have not been included.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e7608	Members of the European Parliament are speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e7630	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I thanked the people in Austria at this point just a week ago, who took part in the measures taken by the Federal Government and made it possible for them to be gradually easing. Some of these easings will certainly still be discussed during the day. I would like briefly to replicate what Mr Muchich said about the definition of risk groups: Together with Karlheinz Kopf and the President of the Medical Chamber, Prof. Szekeres, her workers' chamber president has approved this risk group definition, which says nothing other than the fact that people who belong to it can go to the doctor, to the doctor of their trust, be shown an attestation, and then they will be sure to see if they can adapt to the workplace, whether they recommend home office or whether there is an exemption – then the companies will be compensated. [[Abg. Loacker: Not the chamber...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] What is it all about? – It’s about protection and it’s about health. Now I would like to write to all conspiracy theorists and harmless people in the main book: This virus is and remains dangerous! It has nothing to do with fear and panic when you look at the numerical material we have: [[Abg. Belakovich: Unmistakable, please! What do you think?! What are you taking out?- Oh, my God!]] Internationally, there are more than 200,000 deaths, 20,000 in the UK, and in Sweden, often mentioned, there are three times as many deaths per capita as we do. [[Abg. Kickl: Together, Mrs. Colleague! At the end!]] What is there to say? . Our actions taken by the Federal Government have been effective. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: 700,000 unemployed!]] Whoever doesn't believe me – I can understand that, because maybe I'm attested that I'm not a specialist – may as well listen to the interview that Armin Wolf conducted last week with the virologist Christian Drosten, who warned of early openings just like Herwig Kollaritsch yesterday. [[Abg. Kickl: What he said!]] [[Abg. Belakovich:... appears in the minutes!]] I still noticed an interesting statement by Christian Drosten, the so-called prevention paradoxone. My colleague, Prof. Smolle, said last week that prevention, as it is done here, is really a parade example of how to prevent it; paradox is that one says afterwards: Yes, it worked, but actually it was exaggerated! This, ladies and gentlemen, is paradoxical. We continue to follow this path with thought, courage and confidence, but we still keep a short distance and we keep together. [[Intervocations by Mr Belakovich and Mr Wurm.]] That's my wish. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e7752	Mr Belakovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e7773	Mr President. Minister! My previous speaker has now spoken of conspiracy theorists and unharmed people. – This, of course, fits exactly in the picture that has been communicated to us in the last few weeks. [[The speaker presents a panel with a red-and-white background of coronaviruses and the inscription “Allianz gegen Coronawahnsinsinn.at – Now’s enough!” can be read on the speaker’s desk.]] It was the Minister of the Interior who always spoke of the life-threatening: all those who did not receive everything so grateful, who did not permanently bow to the chancellor. Last week I stood at this point and accused the chancellor that he had with full intention put the population in fear and panic, only for the - - - what yelling [[Calls of the Abg. Kirchbaumer.]] You're so nervous all the time? You can stand out here! You can say something if you have something to say, but you rarely come to the speaker's desk, Mrs Colleague. – And he did it purposely! Today we are smarter, today we know that my presumption corresponds to the truth. Yesterday the protocols were published, and there were the Professor Collaritsch, whom you mentioned, who wanted to start the panic, and the Chancellor, who said, we must make people afraid that the parents die, fear that all the loved ones who die. He did well, yes! Why did he do that? Why did he want to do that? – In order to limit the rights of freedom of the population in the background. This is the truth, and we will discuss it even more closely today at the next item on the agenda, ladies and gentlemen. So stop calling Mrs Schwarz, people who don't pay tribute to your chancellor here as conspiracy theorist or as an unharmed person! This is unworthy, Mrs. Colleague! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let's return to the risk groups: We have today a draft law to which we will agree, because it is important that that group of persons belonging to these risk groups continue to be protected. This has always been our access from the beginning, that you also protect the risk groups. However, Mr Minister, we have already said that in committee: We have a draft law here, but we do not know what the regulation says yet. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] This will probably be the case, because not later than yesterday – the events are now being overlooked – light is coming into this corona dungeon and into this regulation's craziness. You have announced that this regulation has actually been misinterpreted – at least by the members of the government. Both you and the Federal Chancellor have invited the Austrians to these countless press conferences; they must not go home to others. The Easter festival has fallen into the water for many, so the family celebrations have been cancelled. For some, it might even have been the last Easter festival. [[Abg. Kickl:... Ramadan!]] That's what I'm asking myself: Could it be, Mr Anschober, that there is a connection between Ramadan and the easing or clarification of this regulation? [[Abg. Kickl: Every night fast break! No problem!]] [[Uh-rufe at ÖVP and Greens.]] It is already clear, dear Austrians, for some parties this is of course important again. By the way, it is a similar reaction to last week when I said that the chancellor was deliberately spreading fear. Today we know. I ask a question again in the room – it will be restless again. So I obviously went back to the black, ladies and gentlemen. You're afraid you won't be the master of the problem that comes to us in the next few weeks. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, what I would like to say in connection with this draft law, which we have here, is that, as I ask you, Mr Minister, to have a precise look at it, the announcement by the Economic and Social Association that persons belonging to the risk group may not be allowed to participate in social and social life. So that's going to be something like a house arrest for this group of people, and I think you have to be very careful about what you're doing. It would go in a completely wrong direction to rescind people. I've been missing something, and I've often told you: I am going to give you so long, Minister, until there is a solution. [[Interference of Federal Minister Anschober.]] You know what's coming. It concerns family members; if one does not belong to the risk group itself, but lives in the household, a spouse, a child, a family member belonging to a high-risk group. Where is the solution? – We're still missing these. I hope that it will be given the same time, and that it will be satisfying for those concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e7877	Mr Koza is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e7948	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear listeners in front of the screens at home! Times of crisis are always times of increased uncertainty, and the uncertainty is particularly high when it comes not only to material fears but also to fears about one's own health and the health of the closest family. People who are particularly vulnerable in the truest sense of the word have deserved the greatest possible protection. It is up to the policy to take the appropriate measures to address this uncertainty and these fears and to protect those who are particularly vulnerable, especially at work. That's why I'm glad that we're with the 9th today. COVID-19 legislation sets out rules to ensure that all those exposed to a particularly high health risk in the event of an infection by the Corona virus are actually protected as best as possible. This is independent of whether they work in a large-scale office, whether they work in a factory, in trade or in health professions, which also includes the system-related areas. Mr Muchitsch has already mentioned it, there is a three-stage system: first, the information by the social security fund's umbrella association, whether the person concerned is now a risk group. The second step is that the person concerned decides for himself what he or she is doing with this information, such as his or her doctor, who can assess, analyse and issue a corresponding risk attestation. And even then, it is up to the person concerned or the person concerned for what he or she is doing with it: going to the employer, telling him or her, that is before him and, where appropriate, having the right to take appropriate action at work. We have heard from the Home Office, it can also be a protected work area or, if necessary, the exemption. Each step is based on voluntaryness. We think this is important, because not every person concerned wants his superior, his employer, his colleagues to know that he or she belongs to a risk group. Not everyone wants, just because he or she is a member of a risk group, does not follow his work anymore, and perhaps some also fear the consequence despite an extended termination protection. As surveys have also been carried out in the context of a corona study by the University of Vienna, a risk group can be heard, unfortunately also often with stigmatization and shame. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not allow a stigmatization of the people concerned to happen. It should not be so far that people are disadvantaged because of illness, pre-disease or health handicaps in the workplace, at work or even when it comes to finding a job, because they are supposed to be taxable or less efficient than others. It is about rights, it is about being able to perceive them fearlessly. It is about protecting and solidarity with those who deserve our solidarity, especially in the current health crisis. Finally, I would like to refer to the amendment tabled by Mr Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schallmeiner, and others, on the report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, 120 of the supplements, on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Introduce COVID-19 legislation. This application has been distributed. What's this about? – On the one hand, it is about explicitly mentioning the minor employees in the circle of those affected by the health insurance scheme, and, on the other hand, it is also about extending the duration of the covid crisis of insurance protection for 27-year-old self-insurers in training. I call for support and approval of this request. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[10:49]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e8124	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e8148	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! When it comes to risk patients and if we believe that the risk is high, it has to be fast. But now this letter is coming, but it's not coming right away. Now we decide on a law, and then the umbrella association of social security funds writes a letter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] But not everyone who gets a letter is also a risk patient, and not everyone who doesn't receive a letter is not a risk patient. If you receive such a letter, you can go to the doctor – or not. And if you do not receive a letter, you can also go to the doctor – or not. [[Abg. Belakovich: (delighted) Or not!]] Why is there this letter now? – The letter is there because the Minister promised him. ==References====External links== March began, and until those concerned have this letter, at least six weeks have passed. In the meantime, hundreds of thousands of citizens have been insecured, as it was said in the beginning, high blood pressure and diabetes are likely to be a risk patient. All possible groups of people were insecured, many people called their doctors and wanted to have an attestation that they belong to the risk patients. The doctors ran hot, they didn't know what to confirm. It was once again an element of this policy of uncertainty that is being done with people, this fear scatter, one could be a risk patient. For several weeks hundreds of thousands of people have been left in ignorance, as it now looks. And it wasn't clear whether the boss would experience the diagnosis, because that doesn't have a Sunset clause, no expiry date, when the chronic illness is once recorded in the personal data. What we now have is a law in the rapid procedure, which is quickly being whipped by Parliament – quickly in relation to the procedure, but not in terms of time. Social security is now intended to analyse who is a risk patient using drugs prescribed by someone. This cannot be done by social security, because we have a bad data situation in Austria and they cannot even know which medications someone has been given in the hospital, whether someone is experiencing, for example, an outpatient chemotherapy. However, the ministry is not seeking a better data situation to improve the quality of data, but the ministry is trying to write a letter. It is nice, Mr Minister, if you like to look at it, consider it, keep looking – but at the end you look away. It would be better to get started once and create better health data, which will help patients even after the corona crisis, when a new health challenge comes to us. But this does not fit into the political marketing, there is no room for such improvements. The next health crisis we will fight again on the basis of bad data, with much uncertainty and much fear.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e8199	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e8220	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today's number is 212,000; within just four months, 212,000 people have died of this greatest pandemic for over 100 years. I don't understand the small talk personally. Together, let us devote ourselves to the very big objective: to keep the number of victims in Austria as small as possible in order to get through this crisis as possible. I can tell you – I would rather tell you something else – from my point of view, in my opinion, we are far from through. This crisis has not yet survived. There will be many, many more actions to avoid victims as much as possible. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] What we are discussing here today is exactly one of the many measures we are taking to ensure that people living in Austria are protected as well as possible in this situation. I brought you a little statistics. [[The speaker holds a panel with a column diagram in height.]] What's that? – These are the death tolls in Europe, that is to say, 100 000 people. [[Abg. Amesbauer: This is the same thing again and again!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: We see that every day!]] You see below: six deaths per 100 000 inhabitants. Yes, these are six too many, but we are comparatively very, very good on the go, with a very big difference to many, many other countries. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a coincidence, as there have just been proper measures at the right time, which have been borne and supported by all of you and, by the way, have often been proposed by you. – I do not want to say that, because good proposals should be accepted by the government. We have acted decisively and decisively together. Let us be glad about it, rather than now in the wake of the first part of this debate, that might not have been necessary, since the numbers of victims are not so large! That's a mistake, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] We know very well – the previous speakers also presented it absolutely correctly – there are three large risk groups in this context: on the one hand, older people, on the other hand older people with severe pre-diseases and on the other hand, third workers who had particularly severe pre-diseases or who are suffering from them. I can tell you that there is currently no international model that we can use when it comes to these demarcations. That is why it is good and right that there has been a scientific process that has defined these demarcations, which have precisely defined the specific types of disease in which there is indeed a particularly high risk, and thus has created the requirement that we can now protect these groups even better than we have in the past. I'm very happy and grateful that it worked well. We have the opportunity to offer around 90 000 people. It's an offer to do something voluntarily. I also understand concerns about this offer, since, of course, it is not yet the case in our society, for example, that there are no stigmatizations due to severe diseases. That is why the voluntary principle we are implementing here is particularly important. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to thank the social security system in this context, but I would also like to thank the social partners in particular. It is not natural that such a regulation should be jointly developed and put into effect under enormous time pressure. It's good that we always try to realize this with a broad consensus. Again: We are not yet at the end of this crisis. The worst that could happen to us would be to risk a second wave. What would that mean? – It would be the worst for our health, for society and, quite frankly, for the economy as well. A second wave would mean going down everything again, and that is de facto impossible to think, we don't want to risk that. That is why we are taking very careful steps of opening up, very careful steps that are accompanied by safeguard measures. I'm glad that You will now decide on one of these safeguards, as it will bring us a step forward to improve the safety and health protection of the people living in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e8303	Mrs Deckenbacher came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e8324	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Dear spectators in front of the screens! Some of us will admit that not too long ago tourists from Far Eastern countries who wore a mouth-nose mask were anxiously smiling, and they may not have thought that the people were not wearing the mask for fear of infection by us, no, they wore the mask because of their own illness, out of respect for all the people who live in Austria. They protected us with their behavior. [[Abg. Belakovich:... fine dust load!]] When Federal Chancellor Sebastian came before the public and had to announce the far-reaching decision to run Austria down to minimal operations, it became clear to us that for us who have been able to make our lives free so far, this would only be possible at the foreseeable time with abductions and restrictions. Who would have thought we were 75? Will the anniversary of the establishment of the Second Republic be done with Social Distancing? In an international comparison, we were saved from worse thanks to God. The Covid-19 laws and all related regulations also apply to risk groups, among other things. In many families, there are people who belong to the risk group, and that is to be supported as best as possible. In order to make this possible, we will take a decision on this issue today. That is why I would also like to highlight at this point the outstanding contributions, especially the families, the single mothers and fathers, the children, pupils of all levels of school and all those involved in school life. – Thank you for the great support, the willingness to participate and for the exemplary commitment. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Ours The goal was always to allow return to schools as soon as possible, in the event of accompanying evaluation and consideration of the health conditions. In this context too, there is a need for clear rules for risk groups, and this will exist. Students need to experience together, school as a place of social interaction, especially after this long phase of home schooling, which also required families a lot. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, decisions in such an exceptional situation are certainly not easy to make despite careful consideration, especially when different needs such as social Distancing and the desire for education are facing each other. I have the greatest confidence that our Federal Government will continue to take the right measures in the face of all the advantages and disadvantages and will ensure the important legal regulations with regard to all risk groups. [[Abg. Belakovich:... which risk groups?]] We have shown: We stick together when it comes to it, we pull on a strand. [[Abg. Loacker: Which risk groups are you talking about?]] We are the team Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e8405	Next word reported: Mr Alois Stöger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e8427	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Dear Seers! Mr Anschober, if you call the number 212,000, I would like to oppose that figure that of 600,000 unemployed and that of 1.1 million people in short-time work. If you already mention the number of people who died worldwide on the corona virus, please also say the number of people who died of flu and those who died from accidents at work worldwide. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz]] That would be a serious deal with numbers. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mr. Federal Minister, 3rd Minister. In April of this year, the National Council decided to exempt risk groups from work. April. ==References== April, and to this day this law has not been implemented. Is this abuse of office? Why should I put it? You don't change the law? We'll give your bill today the approval so you can't do one thing: move out again, make a little change and then wait for the 7. May comes and the Federal Council decides that, and then wait four days until the Federal President has signed the law. [[Abg. Loacker: This is a... demand...!]] Then the people in the risk groups have nothing of it again, they don't get the performance again. We're not going to do that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, the government has no idea how people are doing! If you knew the reality of life, then you would not ask the caring relatives to decide between the health of their relatives and their workplace, then you would not require the pregnant to decide between the health of their child and their workplace, but you would give people protection against termination. I therefore propose an amendment tabled by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues, to the report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, in 120 of the supplements, so that we can claim the protection of termination, support for family members and also the exemption for pregnant women. Mr Bundeskanzler, keep your word. They've got us on the 3rd. April also promised that there will be more planning posts in the AMS, that there will be the possibility of a senseless moratorium on taxes and SV contributions and that the period of the Corona crisis will be removed when calculating the entitlement period for unemployment benefit. You have not submitted a government proposal in this respect, so you have broken your word. I'm looking for you: Keep word and finally work for the population! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[11:05]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e8604	The amendment has been presented in the main guidelines and has been distributed and has been properly introduced. Next speaker: Mr Peter Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e8632	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Fathers. Anxiety, panic, the Apocalypse: This was the government's strategic plan to prepare and pledge Austria for all these measures. I have to tell you: All your predictions were wrong! They were not only wrong in economic terms – and we will come later – but, of course, they were also wrong in medical terms. Mr Minister, you should admit that at some point. You said: We'll have hundreds of thousands of dead! Everyone will know a dead person!, you have said: The hospital beds and the intensive beds will not be enough! – All these forecasts were wrong! Mr Minister, if you are already producing statistics, please also replicate your statement in the committee last Thursday, when you have to admit that there is, in fact, no causal link between the figures on Corona and the measures in the world. In addition, you also had to admit that your former models Singapore and South Korea are now suddenly no longer models. What is perhaps interesting, and that is the content of the current item on the agenda, on which we shall then vote: You have the risk groups for the first time as defined. From next week on, 67 000 Austrians will become Austrians – 67 000, which is hot 0.8 percent of Austrians! – receive a letter confirming more or less that they belong to a risk group. I strongly assume that these 67,000 people will not be very surprised, because they will receive this letter because of the medication they take, i.e. because of the serious prediseases they have. This will not be a big surprise for these 67,000 people. These 0.8 percent are now defined as a risk group, so it is clear that 99.2 percent are not part of the risk group. Therefore, very, very many people, namely millions of Austrians, who have spent weeks in panic, fear of death or apocalyptic fears, will almost be disappointed that they will not receive a letter because they all believed that they will soon die. The cat is out of the bag, as you say: 0.8% belong to the risk group. They can, if they catch the virus, if they have a severe course when complications occur – if, if so, they may have a problem. The other 99.2 percent, however, can go to sleep calmly. This may also be useful for many small children who can embrace and kiss the grandmother or grandfather and do not have to feel that they are bringing death to Grandma and Grandpa. I am very glad that this number is finally out: 67 000 people, i.e. 0.8 percent, receive this letter and are thus defined as a risk group. Mr Minister, we have also discussed that you still do not want to dig deeper. You still don't want to make comprehensive obducts, you don't really want antibody tests, you don't want to detect the search. These are many points on which you as Minister of Health should have information, namely figures, data, facts. In fact, however, you do not want to raise these exactly. This is actually the declaration of bankruptcy for you as a minister that you do not want to give us all the information and facts, but just want to continue your old game with fear of death, panic and prediction of the Apocalypse. But that's the wrong way.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e8680	Mr Klubobmann is now speaking August Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e8704	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stöger has now prompted me to speak, because when he comes out of here and says that Corona can be compared to the flu – then I tell you, dear colleague Stöger [[Abg. Belakovich: That's stupid, the chancellor said!]] This is really not worthy of a former Minister of Health! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Perhaps you can discuss this with your party presidents once in your club session, because the God is grateful to you for seeing it differently when you follow the public reports. [[Abg. Belakovich: Do you believe?]] All - - - No, what you're doing in the FPÖ, that's looking for the same thing. [[Abg. Belakovich: But she has never impoverished the flu!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] ==References== March you sit down with Kickl and say, Lockdown, everything down! Why doesn't the government do everything?, and now you go here and say we've broken everything and the state doesn't work anymore. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] This zigzag course of the FPÖ reflects exactly the situation of this party. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Again but back to Corona and flu [[Abg. Belakovich: Can you come to the truth?]] I am really shocked that this is said here by a Member and a former Minister of Health. [[Abg. Amesbauer: I say that too!]] All recognised experts agree that this is ten times more fatal than the pig flu. [[Abg. Belakovich: From whom?- Oh, my God!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – This is the FPÖ, look at you! Screaming, excited – that's the FPÖ! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Otherwise, you can't do anything! Unfortunately, it is. There is no medication and there is no vaccination, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, one cannot compare this with the flu. One thing I do not understand: that we are not all happy and grateful that we – unfortunately with more than 500 dead – have so well come through this crisis. I don't understand, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The second is: They complain here to the Minister of Health about the risk groups. That's interesting. Then you'll talk about 7. May, on which the Federal Council is to meet regularly. We have proposed that the Federal Council could meet tomorrow. You have rejected this with your group. You reject the fact that the Federal Council should meet in the morning, but you criticize the Minister that this regulation will enter into force far too late – so how would you like it, Mr Stöger? [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Finally, because the Chancellor is present in every speech of a Social Democratic Member – whether it is true or not – but he appears –: If you say, Mr President, let us see if Mr Bundeskanzler has the floor! I will tell you: He has always kept word and we keep word this time too! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You should check with your colleague Muchitsch because we have prepared a joint request for emergency aid, including with a retroactive effect until mid-March, with a regulation authorisation for the Minister until the end of the year, and you are there and you are saying: Let's see if the ÖVP keeps a word with its partyobmann! – A common request! We already have 700 employees, not 500, as the application says, and the support – the moratorium of energy costs – is already carried out by the Minister of Energy. That's how it looks, and now the three-party proposal comes. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In conclusion, I should like to say one thing at the time of this discussion, and I also like to say that: We don't lead anyone around on the nose. We hold back what we promise, the entire federal government. This is what I use for my group and also for the Federal Chancellor. If we promise something with a motion for a resolution, we shall put it to the point and to the point. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] One, ladies and gentlemen, has already been written to you in the main book: Rethink your statements on how to deal with Corona as a whole! – The population sees that God is different.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e8874	Mr Alois Stöger spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e8906	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Mr Wöginger has said - - – Mr Klubobmann Wöginger has claimed that I compared Corona with the flu. [[Call the ÖVP:Klubobmann!]] - That's not true. [[Abg. Lopatka: Yes, you do!]] I have not compared, but I have said that figures, even if they are worldwide, have to refer to something, and I have pointed out that we also have to point out other diseases and deaths in working life, and then the number is another. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Abg. Worm.]] Secondly, Mr Wöginger, you say that you are making promises. Then I ask you, Have you complied with the promise that people who are risk patients are on the 3rd. Is it possible to release April? - You didn't. [[Abg. Lopatka: Where is the actual correction?]] [[Call to the ÖVP: This is not an actual correction!]] They have put it in view, but they have not complied with it. Ask the risk patients!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e8996	Mrs Dagmar Belakovich has now referred to an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e9020	Madam President. Klubobmann Wöginger has produced himself here and has claimed that all recognised experts and virologists would determine – claim – that Corona is ten times as dangerous as the flu virus. - That's wrong. I'm actually correcting: Numerous recognized virologists – I mention two as examples because I could not list the entire list during these 2 minutes – including Univ.-Prof. Graninger from the University of Vienna, among others Prof. DDr. Martin Haditsch from Upper Austria, claimed exactly the opposite. You said: The discussion that is being held leads to the opposite, namely underestimation and impoverishment of the flu. Furthermore, in his speech, Mr Wöginger – I am correct in doing so – said that I would have said in a press conference together with Klubobmann Kickl that we want the total lockdown point. – That is also incorrect. Mr Wöginger, if you already quote, then quote Please, you're over! We wanted the total lockdown at Vienna Airport and the absolute border closure. - That's right.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e9061	Now no one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I will put the vote at the end of the negotiations on the submissions of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, which is after the summit 11. [[11:19:37]] 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 482/A by Mr Mag. Ernst Gödl, Bedrana Ribo, MA, colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the Bundespflegegeldsgesetz (14. COVID-19 Act) (122 d.b.) 4. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on amendment 481/A by Mr Mag. Andreas Hanger, David Stögmüller, colleagues regarding a federal law with which the Federal Law on the Promotion of Voluntary Commitment (Voluntary Law – FreiwG), BGBl. I No. 17/2012 is amended (10. COVID-19 Act) (123 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e9124	This brings us to Agenda items 3 and 4, on which the debates will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Verena Nussbaum is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e9151	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Social democracy in Austria has been living social justice and solidarity for 130 years. ==References== May we celebrate the social achievements that Austria makes to the country that it is today, a country that does not leave people behind and sees social security as a central state task – I am all the more pleased that the Federal Chancellor has also recognized the importance of the social democratic values. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] In the last few days, much has been said that people in system-related professions should have more to live. – Yes, we see that as well and we will not tire out to continue to stress and fight for it. This is especially true for people who work in care. We don't know that the care of our family is on really wacky legs, we don't know that for a long time. Because of the Corona crisis, this problem has now become much more visible, and the Federal Government has also recognized the urgency of the problem. Many caregivers cannot be cared for because the caregivers have left Austria. There is an acute need for action. Unfortunately, the regulations in the care sector are very fragmented in terms of competence. It would be important to finally create clarity and create a national care fund with uniform rules to ensure the care and care of the elderly and the needy in our country. But it is not only the elderly among us who are affected by this problem. In this context, people with disabilities are often completely forgotten. In most cases, these people are not cared for by 24-hour workers, but by their relatives or personal assistants. There are currently almost no rules for persons with disabilities. It is essential that their caretakers be tested as quickly as possible to prevent infection. In addition, the provision of high-quality medical protection equipment must also be ensured in this area. Many people with disabilities belong to the risk group, but not to the caring family. This leads to a massive risk of infection for these people. It would be important, in my opinion, to include family members in the risk group. Finally, let us begin to act so that those concerned, but also the caretakers, receive legal certainty and security, let us not leave anyone behind and, above all, leave nothing alone. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e9209	Next speaker: Mrs Bedrana Ribo. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e9230	Madam President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Although there has been some relaxation in the last few days: We are still in an exceptional situation. In order to be able to master this exceptional situation really well, it also requires legislative changes. In this case, the Bundespflegegeldsgesetz must be amended – this is necessary in order to ensure care and care. One tries to find a line with the countries in the sense of central management, by supporting and working together with the federal government and countries, so that as many people as possible can get through the crisis. Last week I stressed how important the care sector is and how much it is affected by the crisis – for example, we are thinking about the difficult situations in the 24-hour care or the burden of caring family members. Already at the beginning of the crisis, it quickly became apparent that there could be bottlenecks, especially in the area of 24-hour care. It's about the affected – you imagine – who live constantly in fear: My caretaker, who has already extended for weeks, who has not seen her family for a very long time, may want to return to her family, but the replacement is not there. – In this constant fear, which is understandable to me, a lot of people live in Austria. [[Abg. Matznetter: Then the minister promises a train!]] In order to avoid these failures, this change of law allows data to be transmitted to the competent authorities of the state governments and to the Social Vienna Fund. This has the purpose of actively contacting those affected so that bottlenecks do not arise and thus replacement care is ensured. Yes, there are people who manage to provide for replacement care alone, but there are also a lot of people who do not do this alone for various reasons, and they need care and support. In addition to the Sunset clause, which nevertheless applies to all Covid laws – as from 31.12.2020 – there is another particular point that I would like to mention: [[Abg. Loacker: Don't apply to everyone!]] The transmitted “data must be deleted immediately if they are no longer required for the purpose of carrying out the specific purpose”. – This is a very important point. A careful handling of data was always important to us Greens – and indeed always – that was always the highest priority in us, and so it will remain. [[Call the FPÖ:War! War! War!]] This is also guaranteed in this law, which is why we hope for broad approval. Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e9288	Next speaker: Mr Christian Ragger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e9309	Madam President. Dear Lord – the only remaining minister! Perhaps I could go to Agenda items 3 and 4: Of course, it is right and necessary that we decide today on these provisions with regard to Covid-19, and accordingly we will also take this into account in the Federal Care Money Act. On the other hand, we see the fact that we are making an additional donation to the crisis management fund, of course, very divided, because we are very divided because of the previous Pans and the trust that you or the government have not really solved up to now believe that a tracking app will be introduced through the back door. But what is essential to me – perhaps to do this – is that we have to start to shape new approaches in the field of care and care for the time after that, when we return to normality. Today, we are talking about the fact that we are taking persons embedded in the 24-hour care into the data collection for the first time. In principle, however, it would be necessary and important for one to start relatively early in the future to build all areas related to the care of the elderly, from the 24-hour care to various other areas. What do I mean by that? – A system called GPS has been developed in Carinthia in 2010, in which, if you have an older person who needs to be provided in a nursing home or in a lower-sweller facility or who is provided at home, the correct allocation is carried out with the help of a nurse and a social worker in a central structure. This means that today we do not want every elderly person simply to come to a nursing home from the first minute, but – which should be our goal perspective – that people are provided at home for as long as possible. This must be the basis for the introduction of central systems in the districts – in the county headquarters – where one can make this assignment. Maybe you can fix it to an example: Her grandmother goes down the stairs, falls to the ground and breaks the thigh neck; she may have a rental apartment. Who cares? What happens in the period of transitional care? Where does she go when she was released from the hospital? – That is to say, we do not have these assistances that people would actually need, and thus we do not afford the system. This means that we will give everything in the field of care. This should be dealt with seriously after a change in this crisis, because the way in which we deal with it will be one of the key issues in the social field and in the structure of the care of the elderly. Secondly, the tracking apps, I would like to maintain the following: You can stand with the Americans as you like. Yesterday, what happens in America has been seen to restrict citizens' rights, for which people have been on the streets for centuries, in order to preserve and maintain these rights. I think it is really time to deal honestly with this and to say what the government wants with such measures, because the time is long since personal freedom has been greatly restricted. Today, various constitutional lawyers and lawyers say that one has shot far beyond the goal when it comes to personal rights of freedom. I have to ask myself: How clean and structured has the Social Ministry worked if we are going to change the Epidemic Act again today, because so many are not only grammatical errors, but also structural errors in terms of content? Forgive me, but it is really time for the rights of freedom to go back to the citizens. That's what we're here for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e9358	Mr Gerald Loacker spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e9382	Madam President. Member Ribo of the Greens has declared that all Covid laws have a Sunset clause, an expiry date. - That's not right. I'm actually correcting: For example, in the case of item 13, in which the Epidemic Act is amended, no Sunset clause is provided, and what we change there remains permanent pickling.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e9411	The next speaker was Mr Ernst Gödl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e9433	Madam President. Mr. Health Minister! My Appreciations Ladies and gentlemen! Dear population in front of the TV screens! Austria has done a lot in recent months and weeks in particular. As the Minister of Health pointed out earlier, the figures speak a clear language, namely that we, together – all the whole population – have managed with the policy measures to keep the infection figures low. The fact that normality is now slowly returning here in Parliament, namely the new and the old normality, may also be seen on the following facts: We often meet and have a strong discourse between government parties and opposition. That's good and right. However, we sit in the so-called new normality with some distance, and some parties or, above all, a party, the Freedom Party, is in the old normality: They even sit here without a protective mask, contrary to what is actually recognized and considered important in the population. [[Abg. Schnedlitz: Just like you in the committee! Without a camera!]] The old normality in the field of nursing is also in the direction of FPÖ or in total, that many of the liberals' requests have sounded very different a few weeks ago than they are now being propagated here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] I remind you once again – and this can be read in the Minutes – that a certain Mr. Klubobmann Kickl came to mind on 20 July. In March, the government set out to the panel and struck the government to ensure that not an immediate entire lockdown – and not just the border closures – was carried out. [[Abg. Schnedlitz: At the borders and at the airport and not only at the population!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] That is why it is already curious when the same Mr. Klubobmann Kickl comes here three weeks later and is almost accusing the corona insanity, although he has demanded exactly the opposite a few weeks before. There are several other applications, especially concerning care, concerning 24-hour care. When I see my colleague Belakovich here: We have worked together well in the past period – I have mentioned this several times. We were both responsible for the discussion in the field of care, and I am always wondering how you are now, a few months later – of course now in the opposition – always completely twisting things and turning them into the opposite. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] This government, together with the population, has, as has been said, put in place many right measures. That's what the numbers prove. The very big bonus of our population is that we really keep together in the crisis. I would like to expressly mention some of the institutions, such as the Austrian health insurance fund, which is really very unbureaucratic in the e-medication or also in the granting of medical aid to the population. I would also like to say that, together with the Federal Government, when the corona measures came into force, our health minister immediately tied up an aid package, a 100 million euro package to ensure exactly the area of care with a safety net. Mr Ragger, care hotlines have been established in all countries. There are contact points in all countries where citizens can report themselves unbureaucratically by telephone if they have an additional or urgent new need in care. At the same time, the change in the law we are deciding today is that the data of the Ministry of Social Affairs is transmitted by those who claim a 24-hour care, to the national offices, the health services or the bodies in which care is combined, so that no one is left alone in the case of the case, if, for example, a 24-hour care cannot be guaranteed due to the restrictions on travel. The 24-hour care is, of course, only one segment of care. About 6 percent of care providers, i.e. around 30,000 people in Austria, are supported by 24-hour caregivers. If you know that this happens in principle in an exchange service, we have over 60,000 caregivers and almost everyone comes from abroad. I say almost everyone, because I have seen in the statistics that there are 96 Austrian caregivers who are in the 24-hour care. Almost half of the caregivers come from Romania. Our ministers, Geessler and Edtstadler, as well as State Secretary Brunner, are now very interested in this – the vote seems to have arrived at a final stage – that at this stage of the restrictions on border crossings a corridor train can operate so that the exchange can take place. I myself is the honorary chairman of a non-profit association that organizes mobile services and 24-hour services. I can tell you from experience the following: We have 38 people to whom we provide caregivers. These are also from Romania, for example. We now see that the caregivers who are here are extremely supportive to the families in this situation by really staying here for a long time. In our case, most have even extended by four weeks, until the beginning of June, in order not to leave the families alone until transport in and exchange with their home countries is ensured. It has been very helpful – Mr Federal Minister, thank you for this approach! – that the 500 euro bonus can be given to those who have extended. This bonus was very well accepted by the caregivers. All in all, we strive for every facet of care in this really difficult phase of home care support. I would also like to expressly mention the mobile services used by 30 percent of care providers. They do extremely important work under difficult conditions. Often there is no protective equipment. In this respect, a number of improvements have already been made in recent days, so that sufficient protective equipment and enough disinfectant are available. Summa summarum has recognised the seriousness of the situation from the very beginning and has put in place the right measures so that we continue to make good progress in the care of large modo. In this sense, I believe, it is our all concern that we get through this crisis well. Let us take an example of the population that copes with and manages this crisis in every respect. We politicians should go ahead with a good example in every respect, and it would be a positive signal, even if the representatives of the Freedom Party were to bear the protection of the mouth and nose. This is something that is also very well accepted by the population. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Because it is mandatory!]] [[Further calls from Members Amesbauer and Belakovich.]] It is about protecting others by also wearing a mask. [[Deputies Amesbauer and Belakovich: No!]] In this sense: Go ahead with good example and help us get out of this crisis as well as possible!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e9594	The next item is Mr Dietmar Keckzu. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e9619	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Under item 4 of the agenda, a federal law will be adopted to amend the promotion of voluntary commitment. In the course of the debate on this draft law, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank, above all, volunteers who do not appear in the advertisements of the Federal Government: I am particularly grateful to the Malteses, the Johannites, the Samaritans and the Green Cross, for they also provide improbable help to the people of Austria, not only the Red Cross! [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Fireplaces.]] I would expect the Federal Government to mention these organisations also when it comes to this issue. What about this draft law, ladies and gentlemen? – The aim is to provide one-off funding for covid 19 related expenditure of EUR 600 000 from the COVID-19 crisis management fund. But it's totally unclear who gets something and how who gets something. We could not discuss this point in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs because the time was too short because much was too short. I wonder, Is that what it pays for the corona app? What's going to do with this money? We have not received any answers to these questions so far, and therefore we will not agree to this draft law. This bill provides for uncertainty among the organizations – like many, many other laws that you have passed and that create uncertainty. I'm just calling a law as an example. Here it is said that everything the ÖVP does is right, and everything that Members say at the speaker's desk is wrong. I read an e-mail to you today, please draw your conclusions from it: ‘Good day, Unfortunately, we are as uncertain as you are! Until the last press conference, we assumed that all service providers will not be allowed to start operations until mid-May. Since the press conference, we no longer know. The Federal Chancellor has spoken of other service providers besides Frisören, who are allowed to work again from 01.05. We don't know if he meant everyone without exception! His designation of nail studios, cosmetics and masseurs was also not very representative of the wide range of service providers in all sectors. In the last few days, the signs have condensed into this positive, all service providers' comprehensive direction - fortunately! If the government comes before the press and makes announcements, they will always be available in writing days later. We are also not pre-decided to what is announced in the press conference! We know as much as you do when you watch the press conference on TV. It takes days for us to get the written standardisations afterwards and then prove our information. In so far as: We would be very pleased if you were allowed to work again from 01.05., but we certainly do not know until the next days. We also know nothing about safeguard measures until the regulation is in place. As soon as the paperwork is available - that will obviously be the case only Tuesday - you will learn about it in the general WKW newsletter. Then the list of criteria will be updated to www.wko.at/corona and there will also be the scheme for you. [...] We very much hope that the unclear announcements of the Federal Chancellor for the opening of service providers will be written in your sense and that all service providers, including you, will be allowed to work again from 01.05.“ This does not say any organization that is close to us, but it has come from the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, that is to say, to a request made to it, and there is quite clearly a question of unclear statements made by the Federal Chancellor or the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you: Tell the Austrian population what really is! No one knows what he is from 1. May do, no one knows what to do today. Clarify the population! I would call for this from a government and not for a measure in the committees of the representatives of the government parties.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e9698	Mrs Fiona Fionadier's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e9719	Madam President. High house! Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators and spectators! In principle, we both agree with requests, but it is important to me that the 24-hour care in Austria is also ensured during the Corona crisis. Many nurses are still stuck in their home countries, not only in Romania. There must be a stopover for foreign nurses. We must work for quarters and child care for foreign nurses, the indexing of family allowances must fall. The bureaucracy with regard to these nurses must finally be reduced. The caregivers are urgently needed, not only for our elderly people, but also for many people with disabilities. In school it worked like this: If you want your children to keep the learnt, you have to repeat, repeat and repeat it with them. It's similar here. I don't get tired to repeat for so long that people with disabilities are allowed to participate in our midst until they all understand and we live inclusion! [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Ribo.]] I will do so many times on the subject until our chancellor also raise his voice for the comprehensive inclusion in Austria. I constantly hear from those concerned that the National Council will in any case have no commitment for people with disabilities as long as they do not meet anyone in person. Ladies and gentlemen, it can meet us all today or only tomorrow. With God, I don't want anyone to see such a fate happen to him, but we should all be aware that we are not. That is why it is our duty not to look away from this, but to put our finger in the wound and act. People with disabilities are still working for pocket money, people with disabilities are still not able to live self-determined, people with disabilities are always living in a crisis because we exclude them. Last Saturday, the gala of the association RollOn Austria – We are disabled of one again made clear: We can learn a lot from people with disabilities, and it is urgently necessary that we do the same. We can benefit from each other by supporting each other. Especially in times of crisis, we can learn from people with disabilities how to deal with limitations. A remarkable statement from a guest of the Gala was: There is no need for perfectionism for a happy, self-determined life. – We should think about it. Inclusion is a human right. Let's all do it together!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e9771	Mrs Dagmar Belakovich's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e9792	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Very briefly to Mr Gödl: I am slowly suffering from making permanent actual corrections. Mr Gödl, during the last debate, we did not once discuss care, at least not together, nor did we negotiate. I don't know who you were negotiating with, you didn't do that to me – just to correct that once. To the story with the mask: I have to tell you, the mask is not a protection. It is also part of the anxiety strategy, as I have noted from the outset. You will not be able to spell out any other statement, or you will, you will always find appropriate statements. Anyway, the opposite is the case, the mask is just a supposed protection. I watched you during your speech: You almost wiped the table with your mask here. Quite honestly, I'd be scared now, then I'd have to let him disinfect first, because in the damp breath air all the germs live, and they live well in it – and then put the mask on! By the way, you can observe this permanently. Her colleague, Klubobmann Wöginger, always puts his mask like a bowl, so that everyone who goes by can breathe in all the germs. That's not the right thing to do! What you're showing here is counterproductive! Then there would be something else you have to repeat again and again: When the cameras are gone, none of you wear a mask. [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: That's not true at all!]] – That is not true, in the committees, in the presidential. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] So stop saying that's not true! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] In the presidency neither the President nor Mr Klubobmann have a mask with or on. [[Abg. Wöginger: Because we're sitting apart!]] – There you sit no further than here apart, here is also only a seat between you. Obviously you have a false perception of this. That's the truth, and this one should be addressed here too! A scene from yesterday's meeting of the Committee on the Interior: The Minister of the Interior did not wear a mask throughout the session, but he quickly put it on for selfie. That is the great protection of masks, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So stop blaming us for something that's not right. You know that these masks are not a protection. Mr Gödl, I think you are at the Red Cross or at another aid organization. This is, by the way, a good point, because I come to the item on the agenda, on the subject of voluntaryity. Mr Keck has already mentioned this: There's a bill, that's a promotion for volunteering. We do not know, however, for which organizations, that will keep us from doing so. In the Committee, we no longer had the opportunity to ask questions, because due to the advanced period it was not possible to discuss them extensively, but it was simply voted on, ladies and gentlemen. In addition to what has happened to the Red Cross in recent weeks, I must say: The government has not provided a good service to the Red Cross, since it has transformed it from a non-governmental organization to a government organization. There is already a little suspicion that these 600 000 euros are cross-financing for the app, that is, the app that the President of the National Council has said he wants it to be mandatory. I already ask myself the question of how to actually think and what kind of feelings to feel, if you still stand up as Federal Chancellor and say, all those who don't have a smartphone then get a keyring – on which all this is stored – around the neck. So here, ladies and gentlemen, I would say that the Federal Chancellor has earned the Erich-Mielke Memorial Prize for such statements. I'm telling you quite honestly: First of all, we want to know what organization gets. It can't be that an organization can by chance then also freely grant the government campaign, 15 million euros to Mr Maderthaner and to Mr. Radjaby – this is interestingly the chief agency of the ÖVP and the Greens. This has not only given a slender look, but it has been given party-politically. The government itself could not have done that, you know that very well, because you should have signed this amount – EUR 15 million. Thus one has served the Red Cross, and in fact you have not done a good job to the Red Cross. In contrast to this Federal Government, the Red Cross is quite popular with the Austrians for good reason. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] This federal government loses every day. There you can tell yourself – whether it is Klubobmann Wöginger, whether you are, Mr Gödl – a hundred more times here, any stories that you suck your fingers. That reminds us of the speeches of the Federal Chancellor, who says that we have mastered it best. He's telling anything! They all put themselves here, tell something, hoping that this will stay. But the truth comes to light. It started yesterday, and it will continue. I can guarantee you that more protocols will certainly be leaked, because there are many out of your own ranks who can't start anything with this kind of politics, with this intrusion, with all this thought that people need to be monitored. This is a mentality, a blockwart mentality, which many, even within the ÖVP, do not want.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e9875	Mr David Stögmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e9899	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like Mr. Minister! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, with this legislative package, with these two legislative drafts, we are increasing the recognition fund for voluntary commitment by EUR 600 000. – That’s important and it’s also right. We are in the middle of the corona crisis, volunteers and volunteers have been given a new, much higher priority in our society. I would like to speak briefly about my previous speaker, Belakovich-Jenewein: With your presentation of what you're doing here today, what you're doing here, you could talk about the aluhut fraction. We are talking about increasing a voluntary commitment fund. [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, which organizations? Which organizations?]] – You can yell in there, Mrs. Jenewein! You say yes, the Red Cross gets all the money and how bad that's not! - That's just not true. [[Abg. Belakovich: I didn't say that!]] [[Other calls of the Abg. Belakovich.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] That's not true! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] First of all, I would like to say one thing: The Red Cross is the only rescue organization in Austria that provides almost nationally the rescue service, which also provides the disaster service throughout the country, which, in addition to the voluntary fire brigade, ensures exactly this service, which provides a close network of volunteers. That's great! These are people who are socially involved, yes, who voluntarily give up their leisure time and go to an organization. [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, who gets what?]] Now – and I'll take the SPÖ a little bit in the pot – they'll cut you into a pot with those with dubious processes. – The volunteers who volunteer did not deserve this, ladies and gentlemen. No, they don't. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I am glad that we have the Red Cross, which helps and supports this app – which is the safest thing to do – which is always called safe. That's great and important. Quite honest: Shame also if you misrepresent this law! The aim is to increase funds in favour of voluntary organisations, voluntary service providers, which provide financial support. [[Abg. Keck: Who?]] Read the law! [[Abg. Keck: Who is...?]] This is about the international civil service for support organisations that enable voluntary engagement – the voluntary social year is a topic, the voluntary year of the environment – which are many organisations, these are the support organisations. [[Abg. Belakovich: Which organizations?]] – That’s all in the law if you read it through. That's also good and important. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: There's nothing in it!]] It is also about young people who make a voluntary year of environmental protection, or also about support organisations for the foreign civil service, which, due to Covid-19, now have to bring young people – especially from the foreign civil service – home, for example from peace services. Now, of course, it is a bit surprising, that is, by your group – in the FPÖ, I think, there is something else behind it, because there is probably more of the ideological rejection of Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein behind it, because when we talk about foreign civil servants who are also doing their service somewhere in the social service, also in the concentration camps or at the Memorial for Jewish victims of Shoah, then it is perhaps more the ideological blockage of FPÖ than that of promoting and supporting voluntary service for these young people. So this is more a thorn in your eye than the Red Cross. We are quite clear about the appreciation of the foreign service and the foreign civil service, which we will certainly not let go of. We will continue to support it with financial means that these organisations will get through this crisis as best they can, and therefore the fullest support. - Thank you, Rudi, for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e10045	Deputies, wait a minute! Mrs Dagmar Belakovich referred to an actual correction. [[towards Abg. Hanger]] Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e10073	Madam President. Mr Stögmüller said in his speech that I would have claimed that the Red Cross will receive 600 000 euros. - I didn't say that. I said we don't know how this is divided. I even explained why we couldn't ask. [[Abg. Stögmüller: Read...!]] I'm actually correcting: In his speech, Mr Stögmüller has said that it is in the law which agencies receive as much from these 600 000 euros. [[Calls to the Greens.]] [[Members of the Greens shake their heads.]] - That's wrong. This is not contained in the draft law.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e10116	Now, Mr Andreas Hanger, you are speaking. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e10138	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As a volunteer speaker, I may be able to make a contribution to the discussion and to explain briefly how the situation really is. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] It is about TOP 4, and I can also say that it is a recognition fund, which is now once again being disbursed from Covid funds. I should really like to thank the Minister for Social Affairs, my colleague David Stögmüller, and all those who have taken this initiative. There are, of course, very clear directives for these funds, not a question at all. I can say quite clearly: The fact that the stop-corona app is to be paid is simply not what the guidelines are all about, and all voluntary organisations can, of course, apply for. Mr. Keck, of course, the workers-Samariter-Bund also makes an important contribution in the rescue service, as well as the Green Cross, as well as the Johannites, as well as the Red Cross, and of course everyone can apply. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keck]] The Minister will then make the right decisions on the basis of directives which will be monitored later. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Keck.]] This is a transparent procedure, and quite honestly, I cannot understand this excitement at all, because – and I think that connects us also in the High House – we want to support joint volunteering. This recognition fund is quite simply a sign of this, for example for the voluntary social year. We all know these issues there; this is a very important institution, it is also organized through a non-profit institution. She too is currently concerned about covering her costs. For example, this can be a means of support, which is why, I believe, is a good thing in which we can really reach agreement. However, I would also like to use my speaking time to address the non-profit sector as a whole. I think that's what connects us. We very much appreciate the sector. We have 2.3 million people who are volunteering in associations, we have 2.3 million people who are active in neighborhood assistance in the private field and we have 250 000 full-time employees in non-profit organisations. It is very important that we look very closely at this sector in dealing with the Corona crisis. The Federal Government has already set a great deal of ground there. This is, for example, a question of safeguarding liquidity. Of course, a non-profit institution can also benefit from tax subsidies and social security contributions, of course short work can also be used. I would like to thank the Minister very much at this point. When the instrument of short work was introduced, it was quickly clarified that this also applies to non-profit institutions. Of course, we have to look very closely at the costs incurred by non-profit institutions due to the crisis. This requires a transparent representation. Of course, we also have to face any minor costs, because non-profit organisations and voluntary organisations live by the fact that they have very, very low costs due to their voluntary commitment. The performance contracts will also be very crucial, and I am always hearing them from the sector. The essence of a non-profit organisation is the service contract with a local authority. There are uncertainties, and from this point of view I can also appeal to the contracting parties to put themselves on a table in order to be able to develop solutions as quickly as possible and unbureaucratically as possible. There are many considerations, such as extending service periods and more. It's also important to me: Community organisations, of course, also have market revenues. We need to do this as we do in the private sector, we need to look at what market revenues are available and how we can collect them so that performance can also be ensured in the future. In conclusion, one thing is very important to me: The voluntary sector, the non-profit sector is extremely heterogeneous; there are small associations, large associations, non-profit GmbHs. There are some who have a very good grip on this. We can rely on our own commitment and on the active force of these associations, but there are also many who need our support. At the hour, intensive negotiations are under way. Mr Stögmüller is just as involved as I am, and I am convinced that we will also have a good solution for the non-profit sector, which will help those who actually need it, because we will, of course, continue to need this sector and its full commitment after the crisis. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e10222	Next speaker: Mrs Elisabeth Scheucher-Pichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e10243	Madam President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said several times today: We decide on a number of laws that we need to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic as well as possible. It is about protecting people, but it is also about ensuring care. I will come back to the theme of 24 hours of help. So data will be transmitted to the authorities of the Länder to see if there are bottlenecks as early as possible and to be able to contact those concerned, and I think that is good. Overall, I would also like to thank the government for having many initiatives to create a corridor. I would like to thank Karo Edtstadler and everyone else very much for their initiative towards Romania. We need this for Bulgaria too, we need it for Croatia. I think we will do it with tests instead of quarantine, to get an optimal solution and to ensure the 24-hour help. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] Thank you for that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also thank the caretaker, because many of them live on a voluntary basis. I have had many conversations in which they have said: I won't let my clients down now, I'll stay here! Nevertheless: If we know that we have 460,000 care professionals in Austria, then the 24-hour help, then the caregivers are only a part – 20 percent – of the caregivers. Every form of care is important, but you also need to emphasize this and take a closer look at the care landscape. 20 percent of those affected are cared for in nursing homes. Thank you, too, Minister, for the fact that tests will now be carried out for those affected, but also for the caregivers and that, I hope, the rules of the visit can be relaxed. This happens with all the precautions that exist, because we know that the nursing homes are hotspots. We need to be very careful about this. But that is not only the people who are being cared for there, who are partly demented, in an old age depression, who do not know why they are alone and do not have social contacts, but also the relatives. I get it. Mother's day is at the door. I'm glad that there's going to be easing. Thank you for that too! 75 percent of caregivers are cared for at home and have already been during the pandemic before and during the pandemic and are especially the caring families and the mobile services that ensure care. They're just too short in the discussion. Therefore, from here also from my side a great thanks to the caring relatives and the mobile services. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The mobile services, too, Mr. Federal Minister, we also discussed this in the last Health Committee, need more support, protective equipment and tests. For example, we could do these ourselves in the relief work. This would then be much more unbureaucratic and would go faster. So please don't forget to: 150 000 people in Austria are cared for by mobile services. I conclude by saying: I close with Sebastian Kurz, who said yesterday: With courage and confidence, let us go into the future! [[Abg. Belakovich: What he has already said!]] If the Austrians continue this path with us, this way of security, which concerns the saving of human lives – it is always about saving human lives – then we will be able to cope well with the future challenges in the social sector as well as in the economy, I am sure. Another issue that is currently being discussed in the public, namely the regulation of events. No one has ever thought of lockting away seniors – that at the address of the Pensionist Association. We want to save human lives, and for us young and older people are worth the same. It's about protecting and saving people's lives. And there we are on a very, very good way. Thanks to all those who help there, especially thanks to the Austrians who go along this path.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e10301	Next speaker: Mrs Rebecca Kirchbaumer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e10325	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Values Seers at home! Ladies and gentlemen here in the hall! 3.5 million Austrians are involved daily in the honorary office as well as in the neighborhood assistance. In the European and worldwide comparison, this is unique, which we in Austria have seen very well in the course of this crisis. At this point, I would like to thank all the volunteers who have so committed themselves very much. This is priceless, it is a strong social kitt that we have with it. In fact, the benefits would not be eligible to this extent if we did not have them. The Austrians have packed and helped in this crisis period, during which Corona crisis period. Dear FPÖ does not see it as necessary to implement these measures. We should not have done anything but close the borders. [[Abg. Worm:... that's not true! The economy...!]] – Well, we are very happy! Thank God we have put in place these measures. Thanks to our Federal Government, first of all to our Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz, who goes this way together with us, with the Austrian population. [[Abg. Worm: Who pays for your damage, Rebecca? Who's paying for your damage?]] The population sees this as well, and this is also seen in the surveys. So, my dear Peter! I would also like to thank the country youth in the district of Innsbruck-Land and above all my native Polling, who with the youth launched the action fruit box and in the crisis provided food for people who would have been intended for the gastronomy and would otherwise have landed in the garbage bin. This enabled people who need fruits and vegetables at home to be helped, as well as companies to have a basis for their existence. These funds, this EUR 600 000, will certainly not be used, dear Mrs Belakovich. They will certainly go in the right direction wherever they are needed, for example for recovery actions for young adults, for memorial workers and for bridging financing for the voluntary social year. Ladies and gentlemen, the voluntary commitment is and remains priceless, and it is just the voluntary work that makes our country so big and so special. Thank you all the helpers, all the committed people in our country! Thanks to our federal government, we were able to cope with this corona crisis much better than our neighbouring countries and will continue to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e10378	There is now no mention of this. That concludes this debate. Does the reporting wish to have a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, the vote will take place in accordance with Agenda item 11. [[12:10:29]] 5. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 431/A by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977 (124 d.a.) 6. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 432/A by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977 (125 d.a.) 7. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 489/A by Mr Norbert Sieber, Mr Mag. Markus Koza, colleagues in a federal law which amends the unemployment insurance law 1977, the family compensation law 1967 and the Workers' Chamber Act 1992 (6. COVID-19 Act) (126 d.a.) 8. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on amendment 466/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on ÖBB's short work (130 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e10455	This brings us to points 5 to 8 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker on these agenda items is Mr Josef Muchich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e10485	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! We come to Agenda items 5 to 8. With regard to TOP 5 to 7 concerning unemployment benefit, I would like to point out once again that I really want to appeal to the government parties: Keep your promises accordingly when it comes to leaving no one behind – to leave no one behind – Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President of the Commission, for his excellent report. There are two essential points in order not to leave these people behind. Point one – the first step – is to extend the duration of the reference of unemployment benefit by a corresponding deadline in such a way that a slip into emergency aid does not happen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We as SPÖ have been very conscious of this, and it has succeeded – Klubobmann August Wöginger has already mentioned it – to this one point of a total of three points on 3. In the form of a joint motion for a resolution on April. The original texting has read as follows: “The Federal Government is asked to [...] ensure that the time of the COVID-19 crisis is not considered in calculating the duration of unemployment benefit and occupational protection and income protection under the unemployment insurance law.” – Today, a joint amendment is being made. August, which is not done, is the passus on occupational protection and income protection. We really take you by the word now, and I would ask you to document with your speeches that this point is also guaranteed, namely that this request will be retroactive until 15. 30 March and after expiry of 30 March. September by regulation by the Minister for Labour by the end of the year with the points we have agreed to be extended. And because you said the ÖVP is saying: On this point you have spoken – today at 7.26 p.m., you have solved it; in the Committee this has not been the case. Today at 11.10 a.m. you have solved this with textual amendments, but there are still two points in our joint motion for a resolution. One point of this is to increase the AMS staff by 500 planning points – original text: “500 planning posts” – which we have not yet seen in any bill. Now I come to the second essential, the second important step: to protect those people who have become indebtedly unemployed. This is about increasing unemployment benefit from 55 percent net replacement rate to 70 percent. The 600,000 people concerned cannot afford to be unemployed and remain unemployed longer. The average amount of unemployment benefit is 32 euros per day. Who of you here in this hall can imagine paying with 32 euros a day his bills, which one of you? Our proposal aims only at one thing, namely to say that we want an increase of 55 to 70 percent. That's 8 euros more per day, but that can really help one person or another. Finally, I would like to tell you a story: ==References== April. 30 years ago, my daughter came to the world. – Good luck, Tina, to your 30 today. Birthday! [[It was in favour of SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens and NEOS, as well as members of the FPÖ.]] So today, 30 years ago, my daughter came to the world. I was a construction worker at the time, and it was common for you to park at the AMS in winter. We – my wife, my daughter and I – have grown up, and then – my daughter was eight months old – I became unemployed. The first month, okay, that's what's going on, the second month, that's the February – okay, there's still a bit of saving – that's what's going on, but then comes the third month, the fourth month, the weather is going to be nice and the construction season starts normally. There was a difficult time with regard to employment at the time, and then as a young family father, one begins to think. How can we achieve this in the event of longer unemployment? - That's why my appeal. We as SPÖ are not going to let go of this request towards increasing unemployment benefit. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Go inside, think about it again! We will be in the next Committee on 7 November. A new proposal for the SPÖ initiative was presented in May. Think about it in the next few days: on the day of work, on the 1st day of work. May, or shortly before the Mother's Day, because it's always about families with children – families who have to find their way out with a low unemployment benefit! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e10574	Before I give Mr Klubobmann Wöginger the floor, I should like to say that I have had the Stenographical Protocol brought to me with regard to Mrs Belakovich's speech because I did not hear it exactly. I now have the minutes before me, and, Mrs Belakovich, I give you a call for an order for the expression ‘that is [...] a block-bending mentality’. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Mr Klubobmann is now speaking August Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e10619	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We come to a very important point. I have already done this in my previous speech, and I would like to do so again in detail. We – the government fractions together with the SPÖ – took place on 3 October. A resolution was adopted in April, which was then adopted a day later in the Federal Council with the votes of the same political groups, on three essential points; and I would now like to explain that, in our view, these three points have been fully implemented in the light of today's decisions. First of all: “The Federal Government is invited to [...] quickly increase the employment status of the labour market service by up to 500 planning posts so that these extraordinary burdens can be met”. – Yes, that is correct, we have – not we have, but the Federal Minister has – increased by 500 employees there, and there were 250 employees in this area for the billing. It is quite clear that this is necessary, and also that this does not require any legal action, but has already happened only because of the call in the resolution formula. – Mrs Arbeitsminister, I would like to thank you very much, very much, for this work that has really been done with thought in this area and also for the fact that the employees have been found in good time, which is not so easy in times like this – a warm thanks to you too. [[Abg. Vogl:... Plans!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Vogl.]] The second point was to provide ‘a senseless moratorium for taxes, social security contributions and electricity/gas supplies by the end of the year’. – So, I think, the tax benefits have already been discussed x-time, including in the case of social security contributions: This is a billion-dollar issue, with taxes and social security contributions being paid at the end of the day. This is all in progress and goes de facto without a problem – the Minister of Finance has already carried it out several times. Then it was still open: Power and gas supplies. I would also like to mention this here, because it is always presented as if we were not conversing with the opposition in this area too. Yesterday, and I attach importance to this, a conversation between our energy spokesman, Tanja Graf, and the energy spokesperson of the SPÖ, honourable Member Scroll, has taken place and in this one, I have been told, has been agreed that, as the Ministry has already told us, this is already in implementation and that it is only because of the order that the resolution formula is already being processed – no further legal action is needed in this area, because it is being fulfilled; I would like to stress that. Now we come to the third point, Mr Muchich: If we make up for something – we used to keep it that way and we do it today – then we'll take it off and then we'll pick it. This resolution states as paragraph 3: “The Federal Government is asked to [...] ensure that the time of the COVID-19 crisis is not considered in the calculation of the duration of unemployment benefit, occupational protection and income protection under the Unemployment Insurance Act.” This is what we are going to do with the amendment that I can now put in place, Madam President: [[Quoted print version removed]] That's what we agreed. What does that mean for the population? – If someone has been unemployed and is still unemployed, we can prevent slipping into the emergency aid, so we prevent these people from getting worse. We also want to do so, because no one at the end of the day can see that the economy has now, so to speak, collapsed in large parts and that it is currently very difficult to find a job in the labour market. We guarantee these people the level of unemployment benefit, there is no deterioration there; we have pledged that and we hold it. Mr Muchitsch, I would also like to say that this regulation also applies, in a reasonable way, to occupational and income protection. We do not at all want to say this. You know me long enough to know: If I promise, I'll keep that up. This is thus guaranteed by this amendment for the people who are currently particularly affected. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I would like to point out another point in this package: There is a further 30 million euros for affected workers' families. We have already set up the Family Hard Fund with 30 million euros, and now another 30 million euros are added. It is about the fact that those who were previously unemployed and are still unemployed can also benefit from this support. We are talking about 150 euros per child, which is a one-time payment that cannot be paid back, in order to support as far as we can, and especially those that have to be included in the arms, to provide and care for the children; therefore, this increase, which is also being processed in this collection package – “sambling package” – is no longer allowed to say – in these applications that are being negotiated jointly. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen: If we agree on something – and I place great value on it – then we also keep word! ==References== This motion for a resolution was tabled together on April and decided, and with today's adoption of this amendment, which I have just tabled, we are meeting this motion for a resolution together within the meaning of the people concerned in that country. If the ÖVP promises something, it also holds it! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Belakovich.]] [[12:26]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e10776	The amendment has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. Mr Alois Schrollzu, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a point of order. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e10807	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! I'm making an actual correction: Mr Klubobmann Wöginger, you said that for us, the SPÖ, this third point has been concluded or negotiated. I would like to address the following or the corrective position: We have talked to the EIA's energy spokesman about this and have said that we keep this point in mind, look at this point carefully and we still want a legal regulation for it, because we believe that this solution based on voluntaryity will not be a real preference. Therefore, this correction: We have said that we will keep this in mind, and this point is not complete for me, for us, since we want to have a legal regulation for it after us.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e10837	Mr Michael Schnedlitz has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e10861	Madam President. Dear Lady and Lord on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians at home! Such a National Council meeting is especially for you quite practical, because so you can watch at home in front of the television screens who has done this damage that you now have to do. [[Put a panel on the speaker’s desk, which is read in red writing “Austria 1000er” and pictures ten hundred euro cards]] I can present the who’s who’s of political failure on the red-green banks here. [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Look at it, you'll have to do it for a long time! – Sorry, who’s who of the green-black political failure! The SPÖ has not done much more. [[Subsequent calls at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The failure, ladies and gentlemen, is remarkable, and it begins in the health field. – I should like to clarify the following in advance, because you always say Mr Kickl would have called for a lockdown and now call for the opposite: That is right, Mr Kickl and the Freedom Party have called for a lockdown, but not only on the people as you have done, but above all on the borders as regards the airport and on the black friends, for example, in Tyrol, while you have relied on the population alone. Ladies and gentlemen, you have failed in the health field, because not enough protective equipment is available to date, so that the population, for example, can say goodbye to members who are shortly before death, also in Altenheimen. To this day, you haven't managed to make sure. You have failed – second – but also at the shoulder closure with most of your own population. I can quote the chancellor who said: Please meet no one with whom you do not live in a household! With this he has canceled Easter, the Easter festival, while you are now making a kneefall in front of Islam to Ramadan and suddenly claim that it would have been allowed for ongoing meetings. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Calls for Greens and NEOS.]] [[Members of the Greens form triangles over their heads with their hands.]] This will be thanks to the Christians in this country of the ÖVP! Ladies and gentlemen, you have failed, especially in the social and economic sphere, by creating and producing millions of victims in these areas, without causing any suspension mechanisms and suspension packages. You could almost come to the idea – if you look at what came out under the line – that you did not fight the virus, but your own population and your own economy. Ladies and gentlemen! Anyone who doesn't want to see this play any more can resist it by signing the petition on the side corona's insanity.at and putting an end to this insanity. Ladies and gentlemen! Just as we must put an end to this madness, we must finally get unbureaucratic aid to our country. It is now necessary to clean up the damage you have caused, it is now necessary to remove the damage you have caused and the scrape pile that you have caused. Let's set an initial inflammation by making an Austrian thousander available to every Austrian and every Austrian! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] Let us help the Austrian regional companies with this! Only Amazon has benefited from you and your actions. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We count 1 000 euros unbureaucratically from the baby to the grandparents – simply calculated, clear and efficient; for example, in a four-member family this is a 4,000-dollar family. ro voucher – so that first of all the population can move again, and second of all our economy gets back into swing! I can therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, we put an end to the government's corona madness and we put an Austrian voucher, with an Austrian thousand, an efficient, unbureaucratic aid to our people! Let's do what you've done! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[12:32]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e11052	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Markus Koza. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e11076	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners in front of the screens at home! “In the current Corona crisis, emergency aid [...] proves to be a lucky case for politics. [...] Without emergency aid, tens of thousands of people would fall into minimum security over the coming months – with more adverse regulations from the point of view of those concerned.” – That, ladies and gentlemen, is a quote from a contribution by András Szigetvari in the “standard” of 25. April. I can only give him right. Today we decide on the temporary increase in emergency aid to the level of unemployment benefit by the end of September with the option of extension. We also decide today that by the end of September at least occupational and income protection will apply, including with the possibility of an extension. The income of emergency workers will increase by 8 to 9 percent on this path. This is an important step towards preventing a drop in poverty as a result of the crisis as a result of unemployment, because we know that with the duration of unemployment, the risk of poverty increases by more than double. It is all the more important that measures are now being taken to reduce poverty, and increasing emergency aid is a very important contribution. Although short-time work is currently reaching new record figures almost every day, it is unfortunate that unemployment has also increased enormously at the same time. Since the mediating activity of the AMS is practically on track both for organizational reasons and for the reason that there are currently simply no jobs or hardly any jobs available, given this situation, it would also be completely incomprehensible why people who have little chance of finding a job, in this situation, let the emergency aid slip into this crisis. In this way, we are preventing unemployment households from slipping into poverty today, and we are thus creating the possibility that incomes will be made available to the public. This is the first time that we have been able to This stabilisation of income is not only necessary for social policy, it is also right for economic policy because it stabilises demand and thus helps to get out of this economic crisis. Today, however, not only emergency aid is increased, but also – Mr Wöginger has already mentioned it – the Family Hard Fund will be increased to 60 million euros and opened to those families whose working members were already unemployed before the Corona crisis. That is 30 million euros in addition to combating child poverty. We have thus also taken criticisms of the poverty conference at the previous design of the Family Hard Fund not only seriously but also received it and significantly expanded the circle of stakeholders. With the increase in emergency aid and the extension of the Family Hard Fund, we have tied up a 110 million euro package, which directly benefits the most vulnerable groups in this country in the middle of the most severe post-war crisis. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day: Under FPÖ, emergency aid would have been almost abolished and under the green government participation it will be increased. Green makes the difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e11121	Next speaker: Mr Josef Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e11146	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Minister! Mr Koza gives you a few arguments over and over again. You're right, under a FPÖ government participation, that wouldn't have happened. But do you know what happened under the green government participation? – You pushed the EPUlers off the band. These are far below the minimum level of security, they are fed down with EUR 651 and they do not have a social network. You should pay attention to that too! They agreed that nothing happened for the individual companies in particular. I'm lucky to have Mrs. Aschbacher speak after me. It has not answered our questions at first; it has not been known to present the figures in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Mrs Minister, I would ask you to take the opportunity – without having to get an O.K. from anyone – to present to us, now, transparently, the current figures concerning the unemployed, especially those people who are unemployed, who are unemployed, who are in short-term employment. That would be a one-time chance. Your job as a member of the government is to act with care and transparency, and you have not. This leads me to my point, especially with regard to item 8: If the employees of the ÖBB demand that the officials be excluded from the planned short-time work and continue to receive 100 percent of their salary if they do not voluntarily go into short-time work, this is a blow to the face, for example, for my employees who are in short-time work and who we can still keep. It's about like a cruise ship. The ÖBB officials sit up and look at those below as they row and fight for survival. – That can't be it, it's just a social injustice. I think that's a privilege you need to clear out. ==References== It is also about solidarity in May: The SPÖ should urgently discuss the fact that this is not only handled by the ÖBB, but also by the Post Office in such a way that everyone has to make a contribution to it. What can be done by those in the private sector? are they prepared to prevent the others from withdrawing from their well-acquired right? It can't be. That, I think, is a social injustice, and also a social injustice for every businessman who cares about his employees – and then staff representatives come and say: 100 percent, otherwise nothing! We have also had a small problem with the teacher union in recent days. I wonder, Where is solidarity? Where is solidarity? Some do not feel at all and do not respond to the problems that now exist in Austria. We're all sitting in the same boat, but some staff representatives haven't gotten that at all. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We need to deal with this crisis together. It can't be that this will continue to be handled, and therefore my appeal: Pipe at last Your staff representatives back!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e11197	Now Mrs Bundesminister Christine Aschbacher is speaking. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e11218	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! As Minister of Labour, I should like to begin by thanking all those people who are now working in the crisis in critical areas of supply and making it possible for us to continue to be provided. I cannot list all areas now, but I would like to say thank you at this point, especially those who provide us with health and care services, but also those who work in critical areas of care. I am particularly grateful to those who have maintained the measures taken in order to get into the next phase in which we have gradually relaxed the restrictions and come to a new normality. At this point I would like to mention the most recent points for this plenary week, namely three in my area of competence: The first area concerns the labour market instruments that now support the Covid crisis, for example – as already mentioned – that emergency aid is increased to the level of unemployment benefit. It is important that we leave no one behind and increase to the extent of unemployment benefit. Of course, I would also like to make it clear, Mr Muchitsch, that this will also extend and extend the scope of occupational and remuneration protection. The total is agreed by September, including, with the option that we may also be able to extend it until the end of the year. It is important to say that we support the people who are in unemployment financially and that no one falls within the reference level of emergency aid. Another point is the situation in relation to short-time work. We have already communicated yesterday that over 1.1 million Austrians are in short-time work; we have been able to secure jobs with the quick-to-use model of short-time work. However, it is also very important for entrepreneurs to be able to work with their proven team now, when it is gradually starting and going on again. [[Abg. Loacker: Do you know that only one... can lose his job?]] We were able to guarantee financial security for these 1.1 million people during the crisis and now, because no one gets less than 80 percent of their salary. Very briefly on the figures relating to applications: Currently, more than 97 000 applications have been submitted to the labour market service, 88 600 of which have received sufficient information, and the other applications have been made individually by the employees of the AMS, and almost 70 000 applications have already been approved, with an approval of 6.7 billion euros. At this point, I thank all employees of the labour market service throughout Austria, they do really extraordinary things. Members of the pension have also partly returned to support it, but of course employees from the section have also been sent to support it. In total, we have increased as support with more than 500 employees in order to complete the applications for short work, and in addition there are still 250 employees who now support the billing processes; in total, these are more than 700 employees, who can support the labour market service there accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, support for families. This is also a major concern to me personally, which is why before Easter we have increased the Family Hard Fund to 30 million euros, so that we can support families who are now undeprived of financial hardship, either because of unemployment or short-time job losses. At the same time – and we have heard this today – we have now increased it to EUR 60 million, i.e. additional EUR 30 million. With this Family Crisis Fund, we also support families affected by unemployment, i.e. 50 euros per child and month. That means 150 euros for three months, with which we can support the families. On the third point: This is an area which also affects young people, namely students. There is also a guarantee of family support for this phase. This refers to the family allowance, for which duration of study and age limits are important. Accordingly, we have also responded to this in order to avoid that because of the Covid crisis someone may no longer have a right to family aid. We have done this in the course of the introduction of the tolerance semester, we have extended by one year of training or one semester. This also means that students can expect family support to continue to be guaranteed. It is important that we all do the best together for the Austrians, for our people. At this point I would like to say a thank you once again to all the families who have done exceptional things at home in recent weeks in view of the multi-load of home office, home schooling and child care. I would like to say a special thank you at this point. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Now it is still said to hold on together, to ease the limitations gradually, but at the same time also to respect the discipline – with the recommended measures –! Accordingly, we also fight for every job and work here on high-speed tours so that the people who have now become unemployed, in particular by the crisis, can be re-acquired as soon as possible. [[Abg. Loacker: Not so many numbers at once!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] As the Federal Government, we are on our way to make everything possible so that we can raise the economy, but also society again. – I thank you for holding on, together we pack this! Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e11290	Next speaker: Mr Michael Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e11312	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! There is a need for a number of things to be done, since the free-standing speakers, particularly Mr Schnedlitz, have distanced themselves from what they called for a few weeks ago. It is yes, I think, good that you wear these stickers today with the inscription “Coronavance” so that everyone also expresses what madness you are doing in this phase of corona processing!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e11339	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to be moderate in terms of expression. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e11360	Since the media is often misguided, for the four colleagues of the Freedom Party who are inside, it seems to me that it is not so common when it comes to objective debates and social measures for our families that one participates in the debate and comes in here – just from the OTS of the Free Parliament Club of 13th century. Quote in March: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] ‘Coronavirus: Kickl for ‘Lockdown’ in Austria. “That’s why” – in order to prevent spread – “it is necessary to do everything to prevent a collapse and to break through the exponential increase in new infections. The FPÖ therefore proposes a ‘lockdown’. These would be tough measures’. Then it goes on – I quote –: “The implementation will be painful”, but the population will carry it along. [[Ui-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] – That's what the liberals did on 13 March. They proposed a lockdown for Austria on 3 March. The Federal Government has implemented this, and we do not risk it now by slightly locking up everything as you now demand, but we remain on this course of reason to secure Austria's return to securely. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Kassinger:... Lockdown until 2021!]] [[Call the FPÖ:2023!]] As I said, it is black on white verifiable. They now camp and say, as Mrs. Belakovich has already done today, that all this was overlaid and that it was not necessary at all. – Read your own press releases, then you know what you asked for at the time! That's the truth. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] As has been said, we have put in place these measures. We will now gradually launch the comeback for Austria and re-run Austria. We will successfully get out of this crisis, and the most important thing is that we do not leave anyone behind in this crisis phase, not even the families and the more socially weak. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Kassinger.]] We therefore take steps again and again, we do not want to apply the principle of foundry, but there where need arises, specifically, and purposefully improve accordingly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] We are now doing this with the increase of the Family Hard Fund, we are doing this with regard to emergency aid – it will increase to the extent of unemployment benefit – and we are also taking measures regarding the block-time variant of part-time age. The Federal Minister has also said that we are introducing a tolerance semester with regard to family aid, so that no one falls through the rust in this respect. I think we really have a good way of doing this. I would like to agree to these measures too, because this is what helps the Austrians and the families – to stick to the “Coronavahnsin” posters does not help anyone.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e11447	The next item is Mr Rainer Wimmer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e11472	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The order was held here, Mr Wöginger, that it was already the initiative of the SPÖ Group that the unemployed people were not sent to the emergency. I am glad that reason has won and the ÖVP is now there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is devastating, we have often discussed this: 600,000 people without income, 1.1 million people in short-term work. A very big problem is the older workers, there are 160 000 long-term unemployed over 50 years, with this figure alone in recent months there has been an increase of 50 000. The government is not entirely innocent of this, it was not only Corona that was committed, because before the crisis, the government groups withdrew the programmes. The 20 000 action was abolished, which was a huge mistake. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, you have actually cut the total AMS budget from 2 billion euros to 1.25 billion euros. Of course it is. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It is not fair to be sorry now, although you have previously put in place measures to fuel exactly that. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been demanding more money for the unemployed for years. The net replacement rate is expected to rise to 70 percent. In this respect, we are in Europe in the last third, and very many countries are in front of us. It is easy to live with an average of 900 euros. I have looked through the minutes of the last few years a little because I was interested in how the Greens reacted and, above all, looked forward to the demands of the Greens. I don't want to read it out now, 'cause I'd blow you with that. But I wonder: What about the greens? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] Markus Koza, you have often also pointed out in the bodies of the ÖGB that this is a little wild story that it is just too little. Now you have the opportunity to be at the front and show up. We don't give up hope. ==References== There will be a meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs on May and there will again be a chance to agree to our request for an increase in unemployment benefit. Please just join us once! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e11527	Next speaker: Mrs Barbara Neßler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e11551	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! The Corona crisis is a particularly difficult time for families. Due to the current situation, parents have to do double and triple work. Especially isolated and economically poorly-formed families suffer very much from the crisis. It is therefore our task to help quickly and the greatest hardships ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We must support families who have come into some even more precarious situation in a difficult situation. The increase of the Family Hard Fund has been mentioned several times as well as the expansion. It is also important for families with children who complete education or study to be financially under the arms. This law compensates for the disadvantages caused by the Covid crisis in granting family aid. Remedial action will be taken if vocational training or studies are impaired and if it is not possible to resolve within the duration or within the age limit of the family allowance. This will not be possible in many cases, because, ladies and gentlemen, we are not in a normal state, and that is why it is not possible to study “normal” under quotation. The libraries as an important place of learning and as a place of material procurement are closed. Many live in close housing conditions and, despite Distancelearning, are simply limited in their learning capacity. We are in an exceptional situation, which, of course, requires exceptions. We would therefore like to reduce the pressure on many young people and their families and, of course, continue to grant family support. We have heard many other important points today. New challenges are constantly emerging. We will have to be constantly alert and we will have to continually improve. We will work together to prepare a good way out of the crisis. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e11591	The next item is Mr Norbert Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e11615	Madam President. Minister! High house! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! We are now discussing a number of items on the agenda, I am referring to Question No 489/A. In Austria, it is generally regulated in such a way that family support is paid further during vocational training, e.g. during a course of study or teaching. This reference is in principle limited to the duration of training and there is an age limit. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] With this request, we are now making sure that the family allowance for the period during which there were difficulties in the course of study due to Covid-19 is still paid out, and an extension of the disbursement by one semester or one year of study or by a maximum of six months in the case of general vocational training can be used. At the same time, I am submitting an amendment to this motion for a resolution (Doc. The crisis management fund is intended to provide EUR 30 million for the management of additional expenses due to the family pandemic, with a total of EUR 150 per child. Ladies and gentlemen, as a family speaker in my group, it is very important to thank the families in Austria who have done incredible things in recent weeks and months. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Home Office, Homeschooling, Childcare or were also caregivers, the families have managed this great. The families have once again proved that they actually represent the backbone of this society. They have helped us to deal with this crisis as well as possible so far. All too often one has heard in the past months and years, the families, the family structures are no longer present, they weaken, much goes no more, much has to be replaced by professional services. . I believe that the families have proved quite clearly and emphatically how strong they are and we do well to strengthen Mrs Hosek's very family structures after the crisis and to take further action to ensure that this backbone of society will continue to ensure that such crises, as we are now experiencing them, can be experienced with the help of the families. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] We're happy to be ready for that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] [[13:00]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e11803	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. You'll wonder why I'm back here at the president's desk: Col. Hofer is unfortunately prevented from God's illness – we wish him every good for recovery from this point – and he has a short-term hospital stay. We will now alternate in a 3-hour rhythm. The next speaker was Mr Weratschnig. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e11831	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! And all those who worked to the full in the last few weeks, were in short work or did their work from the home office, and above all those – because I refer to NEOS' request for the ÖBB-short work – who looked at the fact that everything is going on in terms of infrastructure, especially the ÖBB employees, the bus, taxi, tram, subway drivers and all the others! Values colleagues from NEOS, the railways have contributed a lot in recent years to creating the paradigm change in terms of pensions, insurance payments as regards use at work, but also in terms of other conditions relating to labour rights. I am convinced that it makes a difference to rely on a company for decades or to enter under new conditions as a young employee. I think it is up to us not to play out age groups against each other, ladies and gentlemen of the NEOS, and I think it is precisely at this time that we need special solidarity. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Schellhorn: Yes...!]] With regard to short-time work at the ÖBB: Those employees, who are definitely put, can – as one has agreed between the Board of Management and the Board of Directors – voluntarily go into short work, and this is done and implemented by many. I would like to oppose the fact that it is said that this is not happening. Here a general civil servant bashing is to be performed, I believe that exactly the wrong thing and the opposite of what the employees in the enterprises and those who work daily now imagine. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] This voluntaryity is lived, ladies and gentlemen, and those who are 100 percent paid and who do not use them to go into short work are also used to 100 percent. Finally, I would like to say thank you, above all, those 4,000 lock leaders, 1 300 train companions, especially all cleaning workers, all the employees of the ÖBB here for their use, for the fact that the infrastructure in Austria has been working so well in the last weeks and months and we can also use it. Let us not be infected by neoliberalism, Mr Schellhorn, in the future, but let us stand up and develop social standards in all sectors! We need these social standards in all sectors in the future, ladies and gentlemen. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e11879	Mr Zarits is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e11901	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Appreciated spectators at home in front of the televisions, who are still there, despite some speeches on the part of the Free Party, are brave! A warm thank you too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have achieved a lot of things in the last six weeks. The Federal Government has implemented many measures, we have implemented many measures here in Parliament and we have achieved many things together with the social partners. Many of us get emails, get calls, or know someone in their own circle of friends, in their own relationship, where problems arise due to the crisis – that someone has become unemployed, that someone is in short work, and that just the income is not what it was six weeks ago. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn]] There are people in our own environment – you're going to be the same way – that two months ago they wouldn't have dreamed that they were doing this once. I believe that all of our commitment must be to support, above all, those people who suffer very, very much in this crisis; these are families, these are children, and these are those people who have suffered indebtedly in this crisis. It is very, very many people unemployed, that has already been mentioned. 1.1 million people are in short work in Austria; we have managed to save these 1.1 million people from unemployment. [[Abg. Worm: How long?]] A warm thanks to the Federal Government and above all to the social partners. For example, we have also managed – remembering the rents – to ensure that no one can be put on the road during this crisis period or that no apartment can be cancelled if someone cannot pay the rent. Now it is important that we take further action, and it will also be important for us to take further action in the coming weeks, when we know how the crisis will develop. It has already been mentioned: The Family Hard Fund has been increased from 30 to 60 million euros. I believe that this is an important and right step today to help those people who are unemployed who have children. It was also mentioned by Klubobmann Wöginger: 150 euros more for three months per child. The tolerance semester was also addressed: I think it is also very, very important that we support the students who can continue to count on the family allowance and thus have safety regarding their studies. It has also been mentioned that today's decision ensures that no one in this crisis period can slip off from unemployment into emergency aid and is therefore badly affected. I believe that in the past, in the last six weeks, we have taken many right decisions together across the party borders; the Federal Government has also taken many important and correct steps with the social partners. We are taking important and right steps today, and we will have to take steps in the future to overcome the crisis. I am sure that the Federal Government is the right partner for the people in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e11949	Mrs Zopf is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e11971	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Advisor to today's National Council! In advance, as has often been mentioned today, I would like to thank the Federal Government very much once again. The measures are effective, and this is not self-evident. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Worm.]] According to the motto: Overconfidence does rarely do well, I hope that due to the good figures we do not become overconfidence and continue to take care of each other – we will also take care of you, of course. [[Abg. Worm: You say it! ... is a bad counselor! Watch out! It's an old farmer's rule! ...]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Matznetter: You criticize the Federal Chancellor, Mrs. Zopf, with the overconfidence? That's...!]] Now I refer to application 489/A, in particular to part-time age: In my time as a works councillor, I accompanied some workers along the way to part-time work. The Satisfaction of these people has always impressed me and confirmed to me the following: The age part-time is a success model for both sides, for workers and for employers who get the most out of it. The figures speak for themselves: According to the “Wiener Zeitung”, the number of persons using part-time work has doubled over the past five years – from some 20,000 to 40,000 people. Part-time work offers workers the opportunity to reduce working time before retirement. The special thing about this is: One can reduce working time by 40 to 60 percent, but gets 50 percent pay compensation. That is, you still earn between 70 and 80 percent of the final salary during the entire period of part-time. The company is reimbursed by the AMS 90 percent of the wage compensation at a slippery part-time period. The very best thing for the employee, however, is that the pension contributions are paid to the fullest extent. The pension is therefore not reduced by part-time employment. The age part time is a win-win situation for both sides. On the one hand, older workers can slip out of working life, and it is proven that this is a healthy variant. On the other hand, the employer can take advantage of the opportunity and rely on the experience of a long-term employee. All those persons who are or have been in part-time and who have been cancelled for service due to the current economic situation or who have been fully used for systemic reasons should be able to return to the age-part-time at the end of the crisis. Work offers life content, work offers perspective. Our goal was to support and promote work models that were suitable for age due to demographic development before the crisis. Our claim is that the age part-time model will also be ensured after Corona. This is what we are calling for with our request. Last but not least: Overconfidence rarely does good, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Worm: Fear is a bad advice!]] If we continue to be careful, we are working together and we are already preparing for the post-crisis period!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e12052	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e12073	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Yes, it is good and right and especially important for our families that all families affected by unemployment receive support from the Family Hard Fund. In view of the already high number of unemployed people and the expected intensification in the labour market in the next few weeks, it is essential that the funds be increased. We do not understand, however, why such great differences are made with regard to entitlement. They distinguish in the unemployed before the crisis and the unemployed by the crisis. They leave out minimum beneficiaries and social assistance beneficiaries outside, they should only get something if funds are left. How's that going? How does that work? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They give children from families where parents are longer unemployed, less than families where parents have become unemployed in the crisis. These distinctions are not at all understandable to us. It's gonna be hard for everyone to find a job. For all families, the financial situation is strained, whether unemployed before the crisis or unemployed by the crisis. In this crisis, it is very often stressed how important families are, how valuable their contribution is and how much they deserve our support now. Their amendment supports many, but not all. He tightens differences, he is unjust in doing so, heightening the poverty of those who are already poor.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e12113	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. A text message was accidentally sent that announced that we were voting now. We shall not vote until after the debate on Agenda items 9 to 11. Before that, we will be temporarily interrupting the sitting so that all the Members of this House can come to the Chamber. [[13:13:47]] 9. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 434/A(E) by Mr Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, Members and colleagues on the package of measures to prevent a social crisis (127 d.a.) 10. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 424/A(E) by Dr Dagmar Belakovich, colleagues on daily labour market information on COVID-19 effects (128 d.a.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on motion 490/A by Mrs Großbauer, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (COM(88) 588 final — Doc. Eva Blimlinger, colleagues in a federal law that amends the Federal Law on the establishment of a hardening fund (Härtefallfondsgesetz) (17. COVID-19 Act) (129 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e12179	We now come to points 9 to 11 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e12206	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to add a few words to my colleague, Mr Wimmer. To illustrate: The people who have become unemployed before the crisis seem to be guilty themselves, because they get up to 50 euros per month for the children for three months. These are the worse children, that's the group of children that's less worth it. Then there is a second group: the people from 1st century onwards. In March, he became unemployed. The example, Mrs. Aschbacher, is also a middle-sized family with two children: If the dad earns 3 000 euros net, then for the children there are 870 euros per child for three months – 150 euros against 870 euros. [[Calls and calls between MEPs Koza and Matznetter.]] And then there are the third group of children, ladies and gentlemen, these are the children of minimum insurance professionals, social assistance professionals, this third group of children who may get something if of the second 30 million a little something remains – or perhaps nothing more; and that is to reject, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am sorry not only at this point about the classification of children in this country into three groups, but also about hundreds of thousands of women in this country, because if there is always talk of families here, you will never speak of the members of the families on whose shoulders this whole load is now in truth. These are the women. These are the women who live alone with their children, who may be doing home office, who may run a single company that lives in very close conditions and no longer know how to continue. That's not exactly what they're thinking here, they're never spoken of either. You have now gradually put this legendary 38 billion euros into the rescue of companies – the companies have, in part, nothing of it at all – but you have arrived very late that there are also financial bottlenecks of individuals. That is why you have also rejected the fact that we can support the social crisis with examples so that we can overcome it. We cannot vote today because you simply do not see this social crisis in which we are in the middle of it. Over a million people are now in short-term of course also have fewer incomes. The unemployed would have needed an increased unemployment benefit, and above all women would have needed appreciation not only by applause, but in particular by financial support. I have all the requests you have rejected that you have postponed. [[Keeping several documents in height]] Finally, I would like to say one thing: This salami tactics, this – in good Viennese – zizerls Make, one by one, these alms, that's too little and people will notice that.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e12270	The rapporteur was Mr Großbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e12291	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Dear Seers! High house! Culture country, music country, for this Austria was known all over the world until Corona came and changed almost all areas of life fundamentally. It has also greatly changed the arts and culture sector, a field of life, which is also a food for the whole society, which is particularly complex with its wide variety of genres and divisions and where there is no one-on-one solutions. These have never existed before, but precisely now this fact becomes particularly visible. The country of culture Austria, let us say it quite clearly, is in front of a disaster. It hits the professional area in full hardness, but of course also the amateur area, and these two areas are more related than you might want to believe. But back to the individual branches: Film-makers face challenges other than museums, musicians than visual artists, opera houses in front of others than the cabaret. In addition, all the industries and professions, which are very closely related to art and culture, come from sound technology to stage image and cultural communication to the music management agency. Even if it does not apply to all genres and areas, art and culture are also very important for tourism, and if I think of a first tender summer tourism here in Austria, then it is clear that the culture must play a role in any form. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The hardening fund, which is managed professionally and on high-speed tours through the Chamber of Commerce, is very good for many in the culture, but there were gaps, and they are now being closed. A further step will be taken to extend the interest rate of the grants, which will be opened to more artists, including those who come across the monthly margin with their total income. Especially cultural workers are often in several minors or, for example, in the field of film, in case-by-case employment conditions and are therefore not taken into account in terms of support either by the AMS or by other Covid-19 measures. In addition, a minimum funding amount of 500 euros per month is introduced, the corona family hardness adjustment is excluded from the ban on double promotion, and the viewing periods are also extended. All information is available on wko.at. With a view to a new normality also in the cultural field, I would like to help to clarify another particular issue because there are some false information in this regard. It relates to individual lessons at the music universities, at the music schools, to orchestras: I'm talking about wind instruments. On the other hand, I am in discussions, including in media, of the widespread misbelief that trumpets, trombones, tubas are so-called virus slugs, because there's so much air coming out. I'm allowed to do the right thing: From wind instruments comes almost no air, but sound waves. This also confirms a sound and instrument researcher at the Musikuniversität Wien. I would just like to explain this very briefly: A wind instrument is a so-called standing air column, which is placed in vibration by the mouthpiece, lips. It comes in very little air, the mouthpiece through which you blow is only 3 to 5 millimeters in size, and you must not be irritated by the great funnel. The air column is thus moved into vibration – a purely physical process. Out comes very little air with 1 to 2 km/h – for comparison: In sneezing it is 1 000 km/h. The air in a very small amount, yet evasive, would have to be studied, say virologists as well as hygiene and microbiology experts – or just keep more distance. Not to be forgotten: Piano, guitar, drums, violins, harps, accordion, violin, electric guitar, keyboard – you can play it all because you breathe normally, like in the supermarket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e12345	Member Peter Wurm has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e12370	Mr President. Minister! High house! [[The speaker puts a panel on the speaker’s desk, which is read in red writing “Austria 1000er ” and pictures ten hundred euro notes.]] Yes, we have now heard the government's anointing self-devotion for four hours. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] I do not want to say much more about the Greens, they are good agents of this government, but towards ÖVP it is said: Of course, I also know some farming rules, one of which is: Lies have short legs – I find that is a particularly nice wordplay – and another: Fear is a bad advice. I wanted to give this to the ÖVP once because it comes with farm rules. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I remember very well: “It cost what it wanted,” that was the statement at the time, and you should have said the truth: that you can’t pay it. Weather They will pay it personally, nor will the friends of Mr. Federal Chancellors pay it in short. This bill will pay the Austrian population – we all; we will pay it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] This is becoming increasingly clear to the population. Up-to-date status – although the Ministers of the Interior are still guilty of the current figures –: There are between 650 000 and 700 000 unemployed, 1.1 million in short-time work, and 500,000 self-employed are fighting for survival. If they are not to pay the bill as the government always calls it so beautiful, and all the others who are at work, the heroes of work, the invoices are not to pay, then I believe that there are no longer too many professional groups or other groups to pay the bill. I am already very excited about this, on this point I have not heard anything from the government today. Today we have made a request and requested 1 000 euros for every Austrian, every Austrian, including children. [[pointing to the table in front of it]] This is intended to help Austrian businesses, which are therefore also in Austria. pay, are registered here, work properly, receive a corresponding economic package by means of this voucher. I hope that everyone will join us today, because this is a business package that really comes to the recipient. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I may, if someone does not know, point out: The big test for short-time work will come by June at the latest, because the holiday benefits will be due – and these will not be paid by the short-term work fund, that is, they will then be depended on by the respective entrepreneurs. This will be the liquidity sample for hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs by June at the latest, and that will also be the end for tens of thousands or even hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs. I see no solution at all, as the government intends to get under control by June at the latest. Economy is psychology, and you continue to spread fear and panic. This applies to everything you have announced today; I would just like to remind you of it, for example, as regards gastronomy and tourism: It has been announced today that you can now go to a gastronomy business with mask, and you can sit down at a table with a maximum of four adults and then put off the mask; however, the bread basket and the salt scatter on the table are not available, that is forbidden. If you may have to go to the toilet, you have to put your mask back on before you go across the place. – Faith All of you serious, so that you will trigger a great boom in the gastronomy, the gastronomy will live up and the unemployed will be recruited in the gastronomy? You think that's serious?- Oh, my God! Or in the case of hotels: You said the hotel was locked up at the end of May. – With what measures? How does that work? Is there a wellness area, is there none? What are the conditions? All of this is things, you're basically shy about changing your course. I can only advise the ÖVP urgently: At last, change your course! Act facts-related, practice-related, in the sense of the population! You have driven the country to the wall, entrepreneurs and workers, and the damage is so immense that I don't know and can't imagine how you'll ever get under control in the next few years. We are all bleeding, it will all meet in Austria, there will be a very massive buy power drain. I can only say it again: In my opinion, all these measures are not practical and do not help the people outside who are really concerned about their existence at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e12458	Mr Blimlinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e12479	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, the missing art and cultural policies of the past decades show themselves, unfortunately one must say, above all in the incredibly bad employment conditions in the arts and culture, but also in other areas. Today we will decide on a change concerning the fund of hardness, which refers precisely to it: on the one hand, to the people who are very small in number, and on the other hand to those who are employed on a day-to-day basis and therefore not to the benefit of the unemployed, let alone the need for emergency aid. [[Abg. Loacker:... also for the cleaning women! That's important!]] Every day there are employees in many areas, I like to grab out an area that is particularly affected, that is the entire film area: People are employed for the shooting day by day, ranging from the sound engineer, the sound engineer, the mask designer, the mask designer, to the area costume, camera, whatever you need for the film. Film productions are currently not possible; this was one of the first areas in which work has been started, and will probably be one of the last areas that can start again. With regard to setting, there may be possibilities, but depending on what happens in the movie, it will be difficult to keep 1 meter distance. For this group of persons who have not yet had the opportunity to receive assistance in the event of hardship, it will now be possible to seek and at least get small amounts that will save them over the next few weeks. We know the amounts are not those that are expected, but so it is unfortunately. The second group is more than a small number of employees. These range from domestic assistance to students, artists and artists who work in a gallery that works in another cultural institution, but they are also those who work in the household as a budget support for several employers or employers, each with little employment. For them, there will now be a solution in the Security Fund, and I hope that it is at least safe to come over the next few weeks and that a possibility has been created. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e12516	Mrs Belakovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e12537	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mrs Aschbacher, it's a shame! They would have been equal to the Minister of Health and should have published the figures for the day, namely the numbers of unemployed. In a situation where these explosions have increased, it would be important for policy and planning to know how high unemployment is daily. I only remember the financial and economic crisis in 2008/2009. There were also great challenges for the Minister of Labour at the time. But this one always had the numbers ready. This also makes sense because of course one can explain measures better than if one does something in the empty space. I now have to say the following, Mrs Minister: You haven't told us about great innovations here today anyway. You told us again how many applications there have been in relation to short-time work. It would be much more interesting if you would once say how much money has already definitely flown to which companies and how many companies are still waiting for their applications to be processed at all. You did not tell us all this today, but you have explained your same positions again, as you have already done in the committee. This is, honestly, a little too little in a situation with the highest unemployment in the Second Republic, Mrs Minister. That is why our request also refers precisely to that. We want to have identified the unemployment figures daily on the homepage of the AMS or the Ministry of Social Affairs – that does not matter. This would be necessary because it is only then that we can really take action. This is precisely the problem in this whole crisis: It has begun with the health figures for which some calculations have been made, but the starting figures have been wrong from the beginning. Now you have no unemployment figures and you think you can save the labour market by any measure. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is so important: Voices To this thousand in Austria, this corona thousand! This is a 1 000 euro voucher for every citizen, from the infant to the big one, to revive the Austrian economy, because this voucher cannot be redeemed in online trade. This has blossomed in Austria in the last few weeks. This is what the ÖVP has promoted: Amazon, Zalando and Co. But we want to boost the local companies again. Every day this crisis lasts longer, the negative money is so to speak. Every day, where there is no real sense of countering this, costs us, the taxpayer, more. You should finally take steps to stop this in order to stimulate consumption, because a voucher can only be issued in the business. That means that this is going back to consumption immediately and would therefore be important and necessary, but it comes from this federal government, from you, Mrs Minister, nothing at all. They are, please, really demanding that the economy be boosted so that the labour market can be reinvigorated, because it will not go on its own.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e12586	Mrs Lunacek has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e12607	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all: I am pleased to be here, especially with a good news about the social situation of artists, but also of others who can apply for funds from the hardening fund. But let me say first – some see it yes –: I had a bicycle accident, but I have a super visa girl that helps me that the injuries in the face are not quite so visible. [[Abg. Matznetter: Why can they work?]] [[Abg. Worm: Hopefully with mask, isn't it?- Oh, my God!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] That is why I wanted to come here today and discuss with you here. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Thank you. This improvement in the hardness fund is particularly important for people in art and culture. As Mr Blimlinger has said earlier, this area has suffered in recent years, for many years, from the fact that many people have had to work in precarious employment conditions. I've been with this government this year to improve this. The Fairpay initiative stood and stands in the government program, and now we see what it means when artists and artists, many who work in this field, simply have no chance to get over the rounds. It is a pity that they were already so little insured before, and therefore it is so necessary that we have already achieved a great deal for artists in this Federal Government for people working in the arts and culture sector. I am glad that a further step is being taken here today. Let me take a brief look at what we have already succeeded: They know that this great fund of hardship is available to a large number of people who are in existential need. In the first phase, 6 600 applications for art and culture were treated positively. Now, in the second phase, since the 20th century. April – this is a little more than a week ago – 4 400 applications have already been submitted. About 80 percent of these were also treated positively. That's what I see for the others who are up now. In another area of the COVID-19 Fund, the Künstler-Socialversicherungsfonds, which also applies to art and culture, to artists and artists, we were able to add the cultural intermediaries as well. These are people who make guided tours in the museums, and others who convey art and culture so that more people are reached, including those who do not go to the theatre, to the concert or to the cinema, but simply want to know more about art and culture. Two 900 applications have also been submitted for funding from this fund. The 60 percent have already done a positive job, it has already been paid almost 1 million euros. For the second phase, we will now see whether the new regulation for the hardness fund actually still provides for groups that still need support and then regulate it through the directive. A short time ago, I very much welcome this proposal: Thank you for your support! I would be very pleased if everyone here in the National Council would agree. It is about the fact that at last people can benefit from this fund, which has so far fallen out – Mr Blimlinger and also colleague Großbauer have already mentioned this – because they have more than a small employment relationship. For example, this is a cutting assistant, who is slightly employed by two different film production companies at the same time, and at a higher school, she also holds a course for video editing – 2 hours a week, for one semester – and has not been able to get any support so far – now she can! – or a wig maker who is temporary or part-time employed during the summer months at various theatre festivals and who, during the winter months, when the contract is worse, earns less income and lives on his savings – just to mention a few examples. I have already mentioned the second area, which is day by day, on a case-by-case basis, employees who come across the monthly margin with their total income. I am very pleased that this is a success today. It is another step towards more social support for those from the arts and culture sector and many others who are actually affected by existential distress in this corona crisis. I think we're on a good path, because we're really finding solutions for all those who need it, just as it was said by this government from the outset: We don't want to leave anyone behind. – Thank you very much for your support.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e12669	Mrs Shetty is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e12690	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. It has already been said several times today that the Corona crisis must not become a social one. No social crisis. The measures we are discussing on this item on the agenda are important. Today we are discussing emergency aid, unemployment benefit, minimum security. The whole country has been talking about school closures, school openings, matura or here for weeks, and I have the great fear that we will forget what happens in the meantime until these measures then work in two, three, four or five weeks. Until schools open again, for example, tens of thousands of children are at home behind locked doors, without teachers, social workers or other family references having contact with them. The “invisible victims” of the crisis are now calling Unicef children and young people in the face of the corona crisis, and I would like to talk to you about it today. It is well proven that during holidays, holidays, but especially in crisis situations such as the present, phenomena such as domestic violence, sexual abuse, neglect, exploitation; and current evidence from countries such as the USA confirms this sad trend. What makes the Corona crisis particularly sensitive are the starting limitations, the disappearance of social contacts and the simultaneous, partly massive fears of existence among parents, for example, when they have lost their job. Schools, kindergartens and sports venues are closed, families, friends and relatives are taboo, the social environment is reduced with a blow on the core family and its own four walls, and especially often the grandparents disappear, which are usually a social contact point in addition to the parents. You spend an unusual amount of time with each other – often without retreating – and are just locked in your own four walls. These conditions are already a major challenge for stable family relationships – and I think many of you are currently experiencing the same – as one would not want to imagine how this looks in families where the situation from home is much more difficult. In addition, only a few weeks after the planned school openings, there are already several months of summer holidays in the house, the planned summer holiday is flat and it is not yet clear what leisure activities will be possible to what extent. Today’s "Tyrol Newspaper" is entitled: ‘Corona crisis as a danger to children’. Media report that since the beginning of the corona crisis in some federal states, the child threat reports have declined dramatically. That's not a good sign, on the contrary: The usual early warning systems, which normally work, schools and kindergartens, now fall away and much remains undiscovered. That is why I am putting forward the following motion for a resolution today, so that we can now, in time and not in retrospect, oppose it: [[Quoted print version removed]] Children don't have a lobby, no powerful advocates who cut themselves into the stuff for them. They need us, and that is why it is our responsibility to protect them from the consequences of this crisis. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[13:45]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e12867	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mrs Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e12892	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewer! We also have to deal with the motion for a resolution 424/A(E) under this agenda, in which FPÖ requires daily labour market data. I would now like to go a little closer to this request. First of all, I would like to say that, of course, we need accurate and meaningful labour market data. This is undisputed, precise figures also facilitate analyses. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Secondly, however, I would also like to say that this data is already available. [[Abg. Belakovich: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] You can view them on the homepage of the AMS, the Social Ministry and Statistics Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] There you will find detailed statements by occupations, industries, working groups, gender and residence status. [[Abg. Belakovich: That's not true!]] These data are published monthly. [[Intervocations with the NEOS and the Abg. Worm.]] So the question now arises whether this demand by the FPÖ for a daily announcement is practical when I think that all AMS jobs – and of which there are more than 100 in Austria – have to be maintained daily. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: After at least...!]] [[Abg. Worm: Ha!]] [[Abg. Loacker:... watch for minutes!]] [[New calls from Deputies Worm and Meinl-Risinger.]] Even in times of digitization, I wonder about the benefits of this task. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I also question the meaning of this request. Who can compare these numbers day after day and what are these daily figures needed by the FPÖ? [[Abg. Worm: For the truth!]] These do not help an entrepreneur or an unemployed person, nor do we create a job, at most at the AMS. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Ribo.]] This demand you are making here is therefore not useful, and I would also say that it is difficult to face the AMS. In fact, there is a very different question: What does the FPÖ need this demand for? [[call to the FPÖ.]] Do you need this to make a daily press release parallel to the Corona crisis in order to beat political change on the back of the unemployed, or are you just dry numbers and statistics more important to you than the concerns of people who have lost their job? [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: That means you're afraid of that then...!]] Every person who has lost his job, whether during or before the crisis, is too much. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] The request you have made here is simply bureaucratic and does not bring any jobs. [[New call of the abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] As has already been said, figures are published: The number of short-time workers is published weekly and the number of unemployed per month. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Freedom of information!]] One thing that is far more important to us – and I say that to you, Mrs Colleague, too – is to have a concept for the future, because I do not assume that you want to present a concept with your vouchers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] Getting people into employment is not possible by publishing dry numbers daily. [[Abg. Loacker:... don't read everything they put down to you!]] Indeed, the best tool for job creation is a functioning businessman, and I and we would like to make every effort to ensure that there is an upturn for the economy in order to create new jobs and secure existing ones. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] The AMS is not to become Austria's second statistics, but rather to remain an effective labour market institution and job placement. [[Call the FPÖ:Sunday speeches!]] Therefore, we should not deal with the AMS now with an extensive bureaucracy, because it is now important that the AMS employees are available to employees and employers. [[Inter-calls at the NEOS.]] We are not available for senseless employment treatments, as you propose. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Prammer.]] Finally, I should like to make one more amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e13180	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Ernst-Dziedzic spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e13204	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! I think we agree on one thing, namely that this crisis is a real disaster for the whole world, for Europe, for Austria, for the democracies, for each and every one of us, and for certain groups a particular disaster. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm]] [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Meinl-Reisinger and Loacker.]] The Corona crisis has hit particularly hard the self-employed. In this group there is about two thirds less income than before the crisis, with employees almost half. Every tenth pensioner and every tenth pensioner feels the crisis directly in the wallet. Over 20 percent of all Austrian households now have up to 20 percent less income. 1.1 million people have so far been registered for short work. It has hit particularly hard the federal states in which tourism plays a major role, and especially the people who work in care professions. You can't repeat it often enough: Without all the nurses, cashiers, caretakers, migrants, without all those women who make up around 70 percent of the employees in the trade and hospitals, we would be lost in this crisis. There should no longer be any debate on it, nor in this Parliament, that we must not only thank them, but that all this must also be financially appreciated. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The poverty conference, whose demands contain the SPÖ's request, has rightly been in the wound for a long time. The crisis – we see that – acts like an X-ray device that makes all the inequalities that existed before even more visible. It shows exactly who can go to his holiday home in the countryside, who needs to think about a solution for childcare next to work, or who can go for a walk in the forest when the playgrounds are closed. The crisis also has a strong economic impact on hotels, restaurants, shops, EPCs, artists and, above all, on those people who were already precariously occupied before. All in all: Yes, we are in a health crisis, in an economic crisis, and the social crisis at this item on the agenda is at hand because of the Corona crisis. It is now essential to strengthen social security, as well as to keep social infrastructure, but also the health system accessible to all, as well as the suspension for all these to create different groups. Of course, all of this – and we will agree on this too – does not go without the belief in a solid society, which does not hide poverty, which does not abandon the weak and has the conviction that every person, regardless of the social origin, is equally valuable. People – and this has already been the subject today – must be able to rely on the policy we are operating here to ensure protection and security. Yeah, it's true: There is a lot more to be done. We will not accept this SPÖ proposal, but we Greens will know the demands of the poverty conference with which we have been working well for years, of course, good and will bring it into further negotiations. It is good that the poverty conference is now this X-ray of our society and does not let us forget that inequality can spread like a virus and that we have to counter it. These X-rays must be a teaching to us and, of course, are a political mission. The playing out of vulnerable groups against each other in this crisis would be a witness of poverty for all of us here. I can assume that we all agree on this and that poverty has not lost anything in one of the richest countries in Europe, and we therefore take the demands of the poverty conference, which is reflected in this proposal, not only seriously but also in the negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e13273	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e13295	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen! I said it in my previous speech: Every National Council meeting and also within the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs is about acting, working and, in particular, targeting cases where there is a risk of poverty, where measures are not yet taken where groups of persons are not yet covered. This is a small number of employees, especially in the arts and culture sector, who are concerned with people who are busy on a case-by-case basis. It is not only the art, cultural or film-makers, it is also very often cleaning workers whose payment, for example, is charged via the service check. All these people are now falling into this fund scheme, and we can re-establish this social network and help accordingly, especially during this time of crisis. The SPÖ has submitted an application for a Social Fund of EUR 100 million. It is very similar in terms of the objectives of the government's action – we have not been able to discuss this in detail in the Committee anymore – and we will significantly exceed these 100 million euros with the measures we are setting for families in these areas. We will improve – also jointly – in the area of emergency aid, we will double the Family Hard Fund and take further measures. To sum up, we will certainly be above this social package that you propose. The difference is that we make this very convenient and goal-oriented. I believe that we are in a very, very good way with these measures, which I hope will also come into force in a timely manner and will not be affected by the opposition. Bundesrat et cetera is delayed so that they can help accordingly quickly.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e13340	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The list of speakers on this item on the agenda is exhausted, no one has made any mention of it. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote after a short break on the reports of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. I am interrupting the sitting for a few minutes until I get a signal from the political groups that the members of the National Council who have stayed in the rooms of the Coulouir and, above all, the roof foyer are here. [[The sitting was suspended at 13.57 p.m. and resumed at 13.58 p.m.]] [[13:58:57]] Vote on agenda items 1 to 11
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e13378	Since I have received the feedback that the club members are all in their places, I can come to the vote on the reports of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, which I make separately on each item on the agenda. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: Draft concerning 9. COVID-19 Act in 120 of the Supplements. There is a supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Schwarz, Mr Schalmeiner, Mr President, and Mrs Stögmüller's amendment or amendment, as well as a request for a separate vote. Therefore, I will first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals referred to or the request for separate vote, following the legislative classification, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Schalmeiner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment relating to Art. 1 § 735 para. 1 introduced. Who is for this, I ask him to set a corresponding sign. – Then it’s unanimously - - - I’m sorry, I’m so focused on this part. [[Unrest in the hall.]] – adopted by a majority. Members of the Muchich, ladies and gentlemen have an amendment or amendment concerning the deletion of the last sentence in paragraph 3 and the insertion of new paragraphs 3a, 4b and 4c in each case in Art. 1 § 735. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, accepted. Mr Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Schalmeiner, Mr President, have tabled an additional amendment or amendment concerning amendments to the Rules of Procedure. 1 § 735 para. 5 and insertion of new paragraphs in Art. 1 § 736 and entered in Articles 2 and 3. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – But now that is unanimous. Members of the Muchich, ladies and gentlemen, have a supplementary or amendment amendment relating to Art. 4 § 258. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask the ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a sign of approval. – This is the majority, accepted. We shall proceed to the separate vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Schalmeiner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 4 § 259 para. 1. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign of approval. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. Mr Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Schalmeiner, Mr President, have tabled an additional amendment or amendment concerning amendments to the Rules of Procedure. 4 § 259 para. 4 or the insertion of a new paragraph 5. Whoever gives him the consent, I ask him to do so. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I would ask the ladies and gentlemen to give their consent to a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This has been accepted by the majority at the third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 121 of the supplements. Whoever does this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Draft concerning 14. COVID-19 Act with title and entry in 122 of the Supplements. I would ask the ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft law to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives his consent in third reading, I ask for a sign. – This is also accepted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Draft concerning 10. COVID-19 Act with title and entry in 123 of the Supplements. I would ask the ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft law to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever is in third reading for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This too is largely accepted. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 124 of the supplements. Whoever does this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is largely accepted. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 125 of the supplements. Whoever does this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Draft concerning 6. COVID-19 Act, title and entry into 126 of the Supplements. There is an amendment tabled by Mrs Wöginger, Mr Muchich, Mr Mag. Koza, ladies and gentlemen, and a supplementary request from Mr Sieber, Mr Mag. Koza, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by these supplementary or amending proposals, following the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Deputies Wöginger, Muchitsch, Mag. Koza, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning Article 1. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Sieber, Mag. Koza, colleagues and others have tabled an additional request concerning the insertion of further paragraphs 1 and 2 into Article 2. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him to do so with a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I would ask the ladies and gentlemen to agree to do so. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever does so in third reading, I ask for a sign on this matter. – This has been adopted by a majority of votes in third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kickl, colleagues on 'Austria-Gutschein'. I would ask the ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of the motion for a resolution, to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority, therefore largely rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 130 of the supplements. Whoever does that, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 127 of the supplements. Whoever does this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Shetty, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Intrusive protection measures for children and young people during and after the Corona crisis'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 10: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 128 of the supplements. Whoever does this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 11: Draft concerning 17. COVID-19 Act including title and entry into 129 of the Supplements. Hiezu have Members of the Great Farmers, Mag. Blimlinger, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the part of the proposed amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Großbauer, Mag. Blimlinger, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning the amendment of the title of law. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is the majority, accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on and received as part of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent to do so. – This is equally accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to this draft law at third reading, I ask him to do so with a sign. – The draft law is also adopted at third reading. Thank you very much. [[14:09:13]] 12. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 485/A by Mrs Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schalmeiner, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Law on Sanitary Law (13. COVID-19 Act) (131 d.a.) 13. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 484/A by Mrs Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schalmeiner, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the 1950 Epidemic Act and the Pharmacy Act (16). COVID-19 Act) (132 d.a.) 14. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 425/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerhard Kaniak, colleagues in the field of observation, documentation and information on COVID-19 (134 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e13775	We shall now proceed to items 12 to 14 on the agenda, on which the debates will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Klubobmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I'm asking him to go to the pult.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e13802	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! It has not changed anything essential since the last National Council meeting on our situation. The people in Austria are still afraid of their health, fear of becoming poor, and fear of losing their personal freedom. We were thinking yesterday of the re-establishment of our Republic 75 years ago and of what motivated it to create this Republic. The motivation was to form a constitutional state, a rule of law, in which not, as in the past, the right of the stronger one, but the strength of the law. This process has led many countries in Europe at this time. In the time of the crisis, differences in the way the individual states act are already seen. Yes, the limitations that we have had were probably necessary. It is interesting, however, how decision-makers in different countries deal with this situation. There are those who make it like Mr. Kurz: They have tried – and this is now apparent – to generate fear to justify action. You can still remember: Everyone will know a coronatote!, was the slogan. They embody great self-confidence and little criticism, and any criticism that you practice is considered to be Majesty-policy. From this there is a certain attitude that I would like to come back to. But there are also others: The situation is a “democratic sense” and challenges criticism. – Estimated Ladies and gentlemen, this is how the state woman goes! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I ask myself, ladies and gentlemen of the Government: Why do you go, why do you deal with criticism as authoritarianly patched as it has happened so far? – I think the reason is a relatively simple one: [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You said at the beginning, you're on the lookout. In the meantime, you are no longer driving in the eye, but in the middle of the eye, and this is probably in the wrong direction, and there is, of course, criticism something that hurts. In addition, this attitude, which is now also expressing itself in action and which really worries me. Worry me, for example, when the Federal Chancellor says: For me, the Constitution is just an unnecessary - - - punctuality. [[Abg. Matznetter: Spitzfindlich-keit!]] As a result, the draft legislation is suddenly presented in a way that I believe is unconstitutional and illegal. The Epidemic Act, as you have proposed, has borne in it all aspects of unconstitutionality and illegality, and this law was intended to whip you through the committee, whip Parliament and whip you through the Federal Council! That is not how responsible legislation is, ladies and gentlemen. That's not how to deal with fundamental rights! No, you don't! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] What happened today after we criticized that this law is unconstitutional after we have said: Please, let's at least make a review!Unknown term type: "%s".? – Today, the fourth version of amendments has already come. Yes, if that doesn't mean bad conscience and bad laws, ladies and gentlemen, what then? A legislation that restricts freedoms and limits people is not legislation as we imagine it to be! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] That should be done carefully and that should be done well! We are not available for something else! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] I'll tell you one thing: The people in Austria were brave, patient, did everything the government felt necessary. But if you start by arbitrarily restricting freedom, then you will feel our resistance, and you will feel tremendous, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e13879	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e13900	Mr President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! Mr Leichtfried, thank you for the announcement of great resistance. [[Abg. Lightness: Enjoy!]] – That was so not necessary, because in the last few days things were a little different than you just presented them; but everything is pretty in line. We've all been sitting at home more or less isolated for weeks. My children haven't seen their grandparents personally for weeks. We cancelled all major meetings, we cancelled all the concerts, the cinemas were closed, we cancelled theater visits. We have done all this to combat this crisis to prevent the spread of the virus. It's not the normality we're talking about. What we're currently experiencing is not normality, and we don't want this kind of normality either. We want to return to a normality as we knew it before the lockdown and how we appreciated it. That is why we have done all of this in the last few weeks, and now it is about how we get out of this situation. How do we get out of the lockdown? How are we heading towards this normality, which we are all talking about? – One possibility – or the central possibility – is that we give ourselves measuring instruments, that we look at how we are currently dealing with this pandemic: We need data to know how the pandemic is spreading, how it is spread in the population. We need data by age, by region, by employment. We need to find out even better where the virus is more widespread and where the plants of distribution are. - That's it. By the way, that's not something I've been thinking about right now, but that's what we've been talking about for weeks, that's the Containment Strategy. It is about the fact that, with a screening, we are now creating precisely these data to take action accordingly and to see if all of our actions will be taken in the future. This Containment Strategy is the way out of the current situation, as has been said. It is about leaving this situation as soon as possible, i.e. we need this containment strategy or this screening as soon as possible to return to the normality I have just spoken about. This is the part of the epidemic law we are discussing here today. The other part, to which Mr Leichtfried has probably referred before, concerns § 15, that is, the question of events and how we want to deal with them in the future. At the moment it is the case that you either allow or cancel an event. In future, it will be possible to hold back which in certain circumstances. And yes, it's true: There was criticism, and from our point of view this criticism was quite justified. As a result, we have also responded, particularly from the SPÖ in which we have tried to include its constructive proposals in our amendment, which I would like to make and which is distributed: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is a contribution to our getting towards normality. This is a contribution to our getting out of this lockdown. Ladies and gentlemen, I would be pleased if we could agree to this amendment and to our request for an amendment to the Epidemic Act, because that would be an important step towards normality. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[14:19]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e14053	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e14077	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I get into the debate, I would like to take the opportunity to present a special greeting. My oldest daughter has her tenth birthday today. Dear Ella! I wish you all the best for your special day. I'm very sorry I can't celebrate with you today. You're really a great girl and a great big sister. I wish you would stay the way you are. [[General condolences.]] But now go back to the debate. It is just six days since I was here and talked about the politics of the fear of the Federal Government. I have said that fear in politics is a bad advice and that I wish for a fact-based policy. Well, what's happened in the last six days? – We now know that it was a very clear guiding principle of the Federal Government and, above all, of German Chancellor Kurz – who is unfortunately not here today – to instrumentalise a policy of fear and force people in Austria to take measures that were without legal basis. I do not necessarily want to use the word: Fakelaws is called it in the media; that is, measures and restrictions have been demanded in recent weeks by the Austrian population which had no legal basis. The Minister for Health has made it quite clear, in part, that this was a wrong communication restriction on personal freedoms in private areas. I also expect these clarifications to be made at other levels. What did I say? – The opposite of a policy of fear is a policy of education and information I would like. On Friday we had a meeting of the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection, in which we made several requests, which should have brought some light into the dark. We have tabled a request concerning the information of the Causa Ischgl, to which, paradoxically, a member of the Green Committee has made a request to postpone it, i.e. it has been postponed by majority of the government. We have tabled a proposal concerning consistent testing strategy in order to have at last valid data for our policy decisions. You, Federal Minister, have already announced over three weeks ago that there will be comprehensive screenings and at the end of the month the antibody tests. The Committee then told us again that antibody tests were not available, whether or not first tests with antibody tests are carried out in Tyrol at the same time. The weekly screening studies announced three weeks ago to have a database have not yet been carried out. We both know that as a solid database, these would be urgently needed to make the right decisions. But I also do not want to put the accusation on me, that we only demand and that That's why I brought a nice table. [[The speaker places a panel on the speaker's desk, on which two course curves can be seen.]] – I know she's very small, but I'm going to explain it to you, and maybe the camera can catch it bigger. These are the European mortality figures. I don't think there are any harder facts than the absolute mortality figures in medicine. You go until the calendar week 16 in this year. The top graphic shows Austria, the lower graphic shows Sweden. As you can see from the top graphic, in the end we now have an under-average mortality of 11 percent in Calendar Week 16. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if this is not evidence that the measures were overwhelming, that is, beyond what is normal, then I do not know what data and facts you are calling on. [[Call the ÖVP: Well, you're a computer!]] [[further calls at ÖVP and SPÖ]] Now, if you take the lower figure that Swedish statistics take, then you see a sad increase in mortality here, which is not to be denied, about 11 percent. But, ladies and gentlemen, we had exactly the same increase of 11 percent above the average in Austria in 2017 as part of the flu wave. So this is a state that is not so far from normality and not so far in the past that one could call it absurd or abnormal. There is a big difference: In Sweden there are 70 000 unemployed, not nearly 700 000 unemployed, in Sweden schools and kindergartens have been opened and children have not been restricted. [[Abg. Hoefinger: That's incredible! Painful for a pharmacist!]] I believe that these are facts in which one can certainly discuss whether the measures which have appeared inevitable in the beginning should not have been relaxed for a long time. [[Other calls of the Abg. Höfinger]] Now let's put this into a temporal context: Just two weeks ago, when we demanded that the measures be loosened, we could already read from these data and even from the mortality figures that the wave is clearly flattering. There has never been the risk that our health system will be overburdened by the measures taken at the outset. It is therefore all the more incomprehensible that applications for normalisation, for the end of the lockdown in the health care committee, have been rejected again. [[Abg. Höfinger: Painful! That you give yourself for such a thing! Incredible!]] I can only tell you one thing: We will not be able to prevent people from dying. Every person has to die sometime. But if we believe that by restricting personal freedom, by preventing the death of the people by the state's premeditation, we will suffer shipwreck. We won't do that. That is why I would like to say to Benjamin Franklin: Whoever is willing to give up essential fundamental rights, just to gain a little security, he has neither earned one nor the other and will end up losing both.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e14172	Mrs Diesner-Wais. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e14193	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the National Council! Today, the National Council is again meeting the next stage of a marathon in the Corona crisis. As a marathon runner, I can tell you, we're in the good runway ahead. Why is that so? This is because the Federal Chancellor has made the right decision with the Federal Government in a technical and timely manner and the people, the people, have kept to the limitations. That was good. Mr Kaniak, I would like to tell you that the following applies to us: Every human life is valuable and each person is important. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] I am really sorry that now that the situation is relaxed, the opposition wants to make things worse. Mr Leichtfried, if there are any changes, this testifies to working together and taking up arguments from others. Therefore, the way in this direction is good. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering the second phase. People have longed to see that there are openings again. But that does not mean that the virus is less dangerous or less infectious. That is why, of course, we need accompanying measures today. As an example, I would like to draw up a law, the Sanitary Law, whose amendment is important, because it allows blood reductions to be made for the determination of antibodies to be made also by sanitators, and that until 31. ==References== This makes sense and is welcome, because the medicaments do a good job in a professional way and are competent people. The draft is also possible for a successor law. We also have the change in the Epidemie Act, which has been highly criticised, in which it concerns temporary framework conditions – my colleague has already mentioned it – in relation to a coronascreening programme. [[Abg. Belakovich: What is temporary?]] This will create a necessary database to be able to review on a regular basis the measures relating specifically to institutions, professional groups and regions. Participation in this is of course voluntary and will only be stored until 2021. Which is also important: Research is now being given data. [[Abg. Loacker: That's not true! What are you talking about? That's not true!]] The Österreich GmbH can obtain anonymized data from the register. There was already the criticism that research is getting too little data. Another point: Events with special conditions can also be held during the pandemic. Without this amendment, there would only be a ban on the event. This allows for events with certain conditions, for example the holding of rallys only with a distance control and a mask obligation, or also possible restrictions on groups of persons, for example at sporting events where, for example, only players are allowed, no viewers. In this way – and this is precisely regulated in the amendment proposal – it is not a question of having an app or something else mandatory or excluding risk groups – that is exactly within – but only of enabling meetings at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] That is an increased degree of security. Here we act individually, quickly and unbureaucratically, so we can relax measures so that we can come back to a normal life. We do this in responsibility for the people and for our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e14261	Mr Loacker. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e14282	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Much has not voted for what you read, colleague Diesner-Wais. I'm still coming to the details. Work is done with eclipse, with shades and with uncertainty. Everyone will soon know a corona death, Sebastian Kurz has said. Today it is that everyone knows one who has either lost his job, is in short work, or is in the company facing the ruin of his existence. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] However, in order to maintain fear, we now urgently need to amend the Epidemic Act – urgently, without consideration – and on the occasion the competences for the authorities will be expanded when it comes to prohibiting events. According to current legal situation, the Authority must prohibit events when they become a “conversation of larger quantities of people” – greater numbers of people! – lead and that would negatively affect the development of epidemics. Now, at once, what conditions the authority can still set so that the event is not prohibited. Of course, it's not true when you say there can't be any rallys. Of course, today, according to the old legal situation, rallys can take place. It's just not true. It was also argued that if we do not change the law, no football games can take place without spectators. – That’s not true, that’s simply not true! If a spirit game takes place – it does not happen by chance to play ghosts when no spectators are present – then it is not a confluence of larger numbers of people and therefore does not have to be prohibited even in accordance with the existing law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl]] This is a proposed argument. Now, Mr Minister, I welcome the fact that you have heard the arguments of the opponents, the SPÖ, the FPÖ and of us, and that your house has responded and submitted a motion for amendment – with two corrections, but nevertheless. That is what I consider to be good for you, but it does not change the distrust in view of the fact that a law that would not have to be amended, now hau ruck, will be changed in the second, and everyone who knows the law will ask himself: For what? What should groups of persons now be restricted to? What are the requirements to be met? - That's not necessary at all. If you want to hold a football game without spectators, you can do it now without changing this law. No one has yet been able to explain to me plausible, neither you nor the club woman Maurer, why it needs this change. Ms. Diesner-Wais has stated in her Fantasiereferat that now science can access the data collected under the Epidemic Law. – It’s not true! The Ages and the Gögs can access it, but the MedUni Wien or the Med University of Graz cannot access it to research this data – and this would have been done of course. You have to look at what is being published internationally around the Sars-Cov-2 virus! There are studies from all possible countries to this end. There is nothing from Austria, because there is no data that could be used for research. That's where the ministry completely slept. We have had many press conferences, we write letters to the insured, but nothing has been done for research. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] This government wants to lead the population like a dad a two-year-old child. The two-year-old child has the advantage that it will eventually grow up, but these things you decide to stay here pick. In fact, you also claimed in your fantasizing party that this law would be limited. [[Abg. Salzmann: This is a devaluation!]] - That's not true! Now, if we change the epidemic law with this Covid law, we'll take it into permanent law. You have to say that honestly, and you didn't say that honestly! In comparison, the new paragraph 6 of Section 32 is added to this, according to which in future the Minister regulates the replacements a company receives under the Epidemic Act by regulation. It's about a federal uniform execution, it's explained to us. – This is not quite plausible, I think, because wage tax and income tax are also carried out in a uniform manner, without there being a regulatory authority behind it. So one can also adopt directives, one can issue issues if one feels there is dancing out of one's ranks, but we should now give the government a regulatory authority. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] This would give the government, which has already done many things with the powers of regulation, which it should not have done, once again a great scope. My group is not prepared to take this risk. With this law, we would again allow things that may have to be taken back, re-explained on the homepage, or which may be unconstitutional again, so that this law might be repealed in a few years – or not.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e14346	Mr Smolle is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e14367	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We have survived the first acute phase of this pandemic in Austria very, very well. All that is happening now must have the goal of staying on the safe side of our health as well. If we deviate from this path, we would not only have a major health and humanitarian problem, but that would also be an even greater problem for our economy. All the measures we are now taking, this careful, gradual relaxation, have precisely this objective in mind. To the Epidemic Act and related applications: Of course, we need a very, very good data situation. I would like to point out that an exact documentation of the history of health in Austria is a legal order for all doctors and all caregivers. These data are available. Example: Last Friday, Med Uni Graz was given the task of performing the most accurate treatment of all deaths related to Covid-19 in Styria – a very important scientific study. Furthermore, the concern was expressed that all Covid-19 suspicions, which died, should be observed. Note: We have in Austria a very Well formulated, very wide-ranging law, which regulates the obducts. There will be no forced observation with us. I say this as someone who understands himself as very scientific. To § 15 concerning human gatherings: There are currently only two options: Yes to say or No – epidemic. Now a step of eightsome relaxation is being taken. A yes is possible under certain conditions. The concerns that have been articulated have been well eliminated by the amendment proposal, I think, essentially and legitimate. The novelle to the Epidemic Act also contains an area concerning screenings. Screening programmes that take place in coordination with the Ministry of Health – if they are within a country, they can also be taken from the head of state – will provide an essential basis for the future. Antibody tests are under development; two studies are already under way in Austria to validate the ability of the antibody tests to state. Here too, we are on a good path. There is also an area that aims to ensure that individual insulation measures can be implemented as quickly as possible, efficiently if someone is tested positively. In this context, I would like to point out the following: The better, the more targeted you can react to individuals and their health conditions, the less restrictions it takes à la longue for the general public. This too is a very, very essential step. There are still a number of other areas, especially editorial, legal, terminology, in connection with the Wehrgesetz, but also amendments to the Pharmacy Act. I think they're so incontrovertible. I would like to conclude by saying: As a country, we are never faced with the alternative of either averting the health disaster or causing the economy to flourish. If we look around in Europe, there are only two types of countries: some countries, such as Austria and Germany, which have been able to avert the health disaster and are now faced with an economic challenge that we are going to master, and other countries that have a humanitarian and health disaster and are facing at least as big economic challenges as we are. – Let us be glad that this has happened in our country thanks to consistent politics and an extremely reasonable population! I would like to thank all of you very, very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e14422	Mr Kucher is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e14444	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President, I hope you're still familiar with yourself – I'm doing a little hard today. It is only about fundamental and freedom rights, so to speak, things that may be unconstitutional, but it is not that easy – since today ÖVP and Greens have changed the draft laws in a minute’s notice – to still recognize themselves in the various legislative drafts, to have a bit of a clear perspective. That, where less errors are marked, is probably the last variant. I no longer know exactly what is now at all, but it is only about fundamental and freedom rights in Austria. There we don't need to be so pingy, there you can be quietly generous in a corona crisis as well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Upper Noster]] [[In the case of the SPÖ, the members of the FPÖ and the M.A. Meinl-Risinger.]] In principle, I would like to ask the question here: Is it really necessary to scare people into fear – that their own parents, that Grandma and Grandpa may die – so that you are able to master the Corona crisis? Is it necessary to frighten people, as Sebastian Kurz said in the silent chamber, or is it not different by informing the people by putting the facts on the table? [[Abg. Worm: No, it is not necessary!]] Is it necessary – with the apps that are now in the room – to force people to use an app, or are people perhaps intelligent enough to know for themselves when putting the facts on the table? Is it possible – as in Germany – to bring the experts from the expert rounds, which are also known, in the press conferences also in front of the curtain, or do it – as in Austria – that you say: We don't need the experts, that's all Sebastian Kurz, because he knows everything!Unknown term type: "%s".? If there are any questions, you can ask Sebastian. It's just exciting, Minister of State Anschober – and I'd be skeptical now: Why are you just going to be alone at the press conferences? – As soon as it gets a bit juicy and bumpy, Sebastian Kurz is gone and at once only Rudi Anschober is responsible. [[In the case of the SPÖ, the members of the FPÖ and the M.A. Meinl-Risinger.]] We all notice that it is not easy in the second phase. We all have to avoid the second wave, but it hardly gets hairy, is either Rudi Anschhober responsible – I don't want to defend you there – or the population is unable to implement the regulations. That's it! In Austria, no one knows – we now have our own working groups, which we need, so that we still know what is at all applicable right – but if anything does not work in the second phase, then the population is guilty, of course, that is logical. Sebastian Kurz is already on the dive station anyway. Once again, I would like to warn about epidemic law. In Austria, we have a minister who doesn't say anything before and after that, but is always the business behind and tells us all what would have been great: Ms Edtstadler. Last week, she complained about the APA about Mr. Anschober not asking her before. That is why I hope that she has had the opportunity under the Epidemic Law to bring herself in before. It's really about massive interventions. This is about trying to introduce an app through the back door in Austria. We all know Sebastian Kurz has rather wanted the Israeli model of a intelligence app – the Israeli intelligence service has just been banned from using this app, so to speak, to monitor all infected and sick people; that was what Sebastian Kurz wanted. Then the Greens – that must be praised – together with civil society, that is, with all of us, prevent there from being a force. Then Sebastian behaved like a defiant child at once and didn't want this app anymore. We have now been able to read this in the press. Now the whole thing's slipping in there: There is no formal notice to this day that voluntaryness is, so to speak, anchored. As far as labour and social law is concerned, we still do not know whether to go to work the next day or not, when it flashes up at 11 o'clock in the night and you get the message that you are potentially infected; you do not know that until today. Mrs. Aschbacher said you have to go to work. That means people don't even know what's happening. That's all a husk! Now they wanted to write this whole thing into the epidemic law. We have said that such an important question cannot be a matter of policy in the silent chamber. For days now, doctors have been muttering about ÖVP and greens, hundreds of thousands of mistakes are inside. – That’s not how you can work when it comes to fundamental and freedom rights! That's why: Let us refer back to the Committee, let us all take the time together! That's embarrassing what's going on today. You can't work like this, it doesn't make you trust!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e14522	The word is Klubobfrau Sigi Maurer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e14544	Mr President. So we're not in government for that long, and in opposition policy, there are always three categories for me: Things you think about: You're totally right, you caught us, we need to improve!Use custom fonts; Things like: Well, that's a pretty good show now, we might also do that, but content is nothing behind it!; and then there is the category of opposition policy, for which I have absolutely no understanding. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] This kind of opposition policy is what is now being listed here. There is no reason why a special meeting of the Federal Council is blocked, thus deliberately delaying the implementation of the measures you yourself have called for, the screening et cetera, all these things. [[Abg. Kucher: (keeping a multi-page document in height)... never!]] I don't understand that. [[Abg. Keck: You have no understanding at all...!]] There is no basis for this. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] As far as the Epidemic Law is concerned, Philip: It is also not true by frequent repetition. It is not right, there is no commitment to the app and there will be no one! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] But we have your feedback to this paragraph of the Epidemic Law. For the explanation: Until now, § 15 only allows events to be completely banned. But we want to relax, we want to make more possible again, we want to allow more freedom and, accordingly, to allow more, and we have formulated appropriate conditions for events so that they can actually take place again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl]] Mr Loacker said he still didn't understand what it was all about. - I'll explain it again. For example, it is about sporting events that can take place, but without audience. [[Abg. Matznetter: This is possible now!]] Such things are meant by them, and it is intended to regulate them. It has on the weekend – because of in the quiet room! – gave a big discussion on this after this was the subject of the Committee, and we responded to every single point that was raised by the opposition. We have been accused of introducing an app obligation. – This is now explicitly excluded in the draft law! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] There was the accusation, the presumption, we want to lock out old people. – Explicitly excluded in the draft law! Moreover, this would not be covered by the Constitution, but it is now explicitly excluded because you wanted it. Third: the fear that risk groups could be locked out. – This too is explicitly formulated in the draft law! In the same way, we have an example of what conditions that we might be talking about. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross.]] This is – na no na net – about distance, potentially about disinfectants, about limits on how many people may be present, et cetera. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keck.]] We have responded to every single criticism, and now the blockade is still there, only right in the Federal Council. This is actually a category of opposition policy that I do not understand. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I understand very well that there is a desire for reviews. Yeah, I did. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] It is a consequence, in this way and Ways to make laws, but we have a pandemic now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cuckoo.]] It is not a normal situation, as such these changes are now quickly necessary, but you are delaying them through your blockade of a special meeting of the Federal Council. – I find that unworthy.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e14692	Mr Leichtfried has spoken on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e14717	Mr President. In her speech, Mr Maurer said that we are blocking a special meeting of the Federal Council. [[Call the ÖVP: It was great!]] I do not know what a special meeting of the Federal Council is if there is that, the government can certainly convene. All we want to do – it is unfair what she has claimed – is to hold a regular meeting at a regular time. I would not have spoken on this subject with such a puddled bill.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e14748	Member of the Worm has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e14770	Mr President. Minister! High house! I am glad that a fact-based and open discussion on the subject of Corona is slowly under way. [[a table on which a column diagram under the heading “Number of deaths in Austria from 2009 to 2019” can be seen, pointing to the speaker’s desk]] A story that wouldn't have been possible eight weeks ago, if we had probably ended up at the pile of failure, we would have criticized something or discussed facts-related issues differently as the government would have liked: I brought you from Statistics Austria – nothing secret – the death statistics in Austria for the past ten years, from 2009 to 2019. We have between 76 000 and 84 000 deaths in Austria. What you might notice: We have a delta of 8,000, i.e. it varies by 8,000, in some years only 2,000 and so on. No one – nor Minister Anschober – could give me a plausible reason. We've had no plane crash, no earthquakes or anything else. What you know – I can say today, at the end of April, that would have been impossible in mid-March –: Look She turned to the 2015 column – without comparing it, just facts, just thinking – that was the severe flu epidemic with 5,000 deaths at the time! We have experienced innumerable government regulations in the entire debate about Corona – we have heard it again today. As far as civil rights, freedom is concerned, I do not want to discuss it for long now. But we also had regulations Like 1 meter distance, 1.5 meters distance, 2 meters distance – this is a bit different everywhere, even in shops. Then you should take a baby elephant with you or an Indian elephant or a rosary elephant, so somehow elephants have something to do with the story. Previously, you had 20 square meters per person; I think from 1st. In May it is 10 square meters. It is also slowly beginning to think about whether there should not be any differentiation between outdoor and indoor areas, because you can now obviously sit in the gastronomy without a mask or stand there, but if you do this locally, you risk a punishment. So slowly a bit of movement is coming in. I am also disappointed that the health speaker of the ÖVP is so categorically opposed to an obsession; this is not done. The more than 500 deaths we had were not systematically observed, we do not know their health stories. That's nothing I'd boast of in 2020 as a health speaker. We also know nothing about the search in Austria. As far as the antibody tests are concerned, we do not yet know anything very specific. The Minister has promised that she will be there now. Who doesn't know that yet: Soon, we have 15,000 more or less Immunes, which have survived the disease or the infection. These are to receive a special award, a document. We also have two sitting here in Parliament, which – completely beyond! – Wear a mask. [[Abg. Singer shakes the head.]] These 15,000 are the ones we are looking for. They also donate plasma, that is, they can also contribute to healing. The Minister has promised that they will soon receive their own award, a document, whatever, because they can move completely freely. Such a person can also attack the salt scatterer or the bread basket in the gastronomy because it will not endanger anyone. On the whole discussion this morning, I would like to expressly say: 67,000 people in Austria now receive a letter because they are risk patients – 0.8 percent – and 99.2 percent can sleep quietly. [[Federal Minister Anschober shakes his head.]] Many children are obviously to be forced to wear a mask at school, because that is all normal condition and quite trusting. On the other hand, the government has announced in Switzerland – and Switzerland is probably not a banana republic – that grandchildren are allowed to kiss Grandma and Grandpa again. Imagine that in Switzerland! So the fight against the virus is likely to have very different forms locally. There are many things I just wonder about, and I can only say again to the conclusion: I would ask everyone to question everything that the government has claimed in the last eight weeks, because very, very, very much of it simply had the background to spread fear of death, panic and apocalypse mood, because that was in the interests of the government. This has not had any basis at all on medical facts. I say it again: There is also no causal link across different countries. The fact that Austria and Germany are good at this is because our health systems have developed accordingly for decades and we are good in this regard. With all the comparisons from America that you are using, as I have read, you have to do, please, the following – all of you know that in geography have been looking after – simply divide by 40, because that is the difference in the population. If you do, then you will find relatively similar numbers to those in Austria. But, as I said, you can turn things around. Finally, just a short while to Italy: Italy has made the lockdown one week before Austria and has implemented it with much stricter measures for the population. Whether this has had a positive effect – I leave that to the Minister. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e14855	Mrs Shetty is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e14876	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, In this debate, we are not only discussing the epidemic law, but also a minor change in the law on sanity in relation to blood loss to faster diagnostics and thus to reduce the spread of the coronavirus, to which this measure should contribute. In addition to this measure, it is also ongoing – Mr Wurm has just mentioned – to require blood donation and especially blood plasma donation – especially the latter, i.e. blood plasma donation from healed Covid-19 patients to treat the affected. It is all the more incomprehensible that Austria, and especially you, Federal Minister, continue to refuse the flat-rate ban on blood donation for men who have sexual intercourse with men – in the abbreviation of the Red Cross MSM – so that these continue to be excluded from a blood donation. It wrote to us last week those affected who were positively tested Covid-19 patients who were healed and would like to make a contribution, but who would be excluded from it. The fact that you continue to prevent a change is totally incomprehensible to me, because the Greens have been fighting for years. Any single blood and blood plasma donation can save life. Other countries such as Bulgaria, Italy, Portugal, Spain and Poland have already solved this much more advanced than Austria. They are linked to the exclusion of individual risk behaviour and not to the sex of the sexual partners. And now the best comes: The call of the Red Cross has been heard everywhere for weeks, and there is an urgent need for blood donation and especially blood plasma donation from Covid-19 genes, and at the same time Covid-19 healers who have sex with men continue to be rejected. Not enough for him: Since a judgment of the European Court of Justice in 2015, a lifelong exclusion of MSM Union law is illegal, namely a violation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, and since 2019, since the revision of the Blood Donor Regulation, Austria is actually planning to exclude “more than” twelve months – under quotation marks. We simply cannot find that the Red Cross continues to exclude life after the revision of the blood donor regulation. Even in Germany, the Conservative Minister for Health Jens Spahn has announced that he will come to an opening, to present a proposal to that effect, and that is why we also call on you to amend this regulation. That is why I put forward the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] In particular, I call on the Greens not to give up the values they have fought for in recent years and to agree to our request. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[14:58]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e15025	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Members Ernst-Dziedzic are reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e15049	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Yannick, I would like to take what you have tabled as a request to take the opportunity to hold our clear position here again. No one wants certain groups of persons to be discriminated against – that is obvious – and yes, as you know, we have been working for years to ensure that sexual risk behaviour is questioned and not necessarily said, this and this group is at risk. In addition, I am right to say that the canneds will be mixed together across Europe, including those from those countries which do not have this scheme. Therefore, together with the ÖVP, we are putting in place a motion for a resolution to instruct the Minister for Health to set up a working group which, if possible, with the involvement of experts and experts, as well as blood donation organisations, will work out criteria that no longer include this discrimination. [[Ah-Rufe and cheerfulness with representatives of the SPÖ]] That's a concern to us! We'll take your request for an opportunity to deal with it exactly. Yes, the crisis has actually come in between us, but there have already been talks about it before, to accept this very problem. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] We are therefore proposing the following resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Vogl:... what you say!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] In this sense, I hope that this request will be supported by everyone here. It's actually an important topic. I am a blood donor myself, and I too would like to have security, but, of course, there is no one to rule out when it is ensured that this safety is also given. Thank you. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[15:01]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e15172	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. I should now like to interrupt the negotiation of Agenda items 12 to 14 for the implementation of a short debate. [[15:01:30]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e15196	The short debate concerns the request by Mr Kollross, the Committee on Budgets for reporting on Amendment 478/A(E) to 30. In April 2020, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place at the end of this debate. We are going into the debate. I may draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with 10 minutes at the disposal of the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I call Mr Kollross. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e15230	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Values Seers at home in front of the screens! I would like to introduce today a subject which, unfortunately, has been debated too little in view of the impact of the crisis, although it has a very massive impact on each and every one of us, namely the question of how in the communities, as in the cities, continues, which means the crisis, which means the shutdown for the finances of communities and cities. We have had the debate before, we have already tabled a motion for a resolution here, but unfortunately it has been rejected. Last Friday, there was a request in the Committee on Budgets, which unfortunately was postponed, and that is why today in the debate – I am now looking first and foremost at the colleagues from the ÖVP, for example to the nine mayors and the three vice-presidents who are sitting in these ranks, plus to all those who once were in a municipal function – to think again about how quickly one should finally help the communities and that such initiatives should not be constantly rejected and postponed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What is this debate about? – This debate is about how communities actually finance themselves. Communities and cities have essentially two sources of income, once the smaller yields are presented outside: One is the municipal tax and the other is the income. Local tax means that every company that has employees in the municipality delivers a certain percentage to the municipality. The problem in the current situation: For all those who are unemployed, no local tax is logically paid, and all those 1.1 million, we now know, people in short-time work – with the unemployed we do not yet experience numbers – do not pay a local tax either. That is, in this area there is once a massive loss of revenue for the communities – and this is actually starting only now. We know very well when you look at how all this develops, that employment will not go up again tomorrow, but that it is a long-term process. At least 15, it is expected that 20 to 25 percent of the income will be lost from the municipal tax. Now, however, there is a much larger and more difficult area, which affects all communities – there are some communities that have fewer employees, and therefore they do not finance themselves from the municipal tax – and these are the income proportions. Shares of income means that the total tax income of the federal government is divided into the federal government, the countries and the municipalities and, at the end of the day, the municipalities are also given a certain share. However, since the tax revenue with March and April is broken down completely or very strongly, this means that there will also be massive losses in the municipalities in May and June at the latest. That means that this is also at least 15 to 20 percent less revenue for the municipalities. Now you can say: Yes Communities, this is an abstract body, what is it all about?- Oh, my God! – I think you have to be aware of what is actually the task of a community. What is the task of a community or a city? What are the municipalities responsible for? – We all live in a community, we are all beneficiaries of the services offered by these communities and these municipalities, and all of us will suffer if there are restrictions in this area that will inevitably exist, because the communities simply need financial resources so that they can maintain these benefits at all. For example, the whole question of childcare – childcare, kindergarten, afternoon care in school – is largely designed by the communities – of course also as far as the buildings are concerned. So if you build a new kindergarten, this is also primarily financed by the communities. The issue of school maintenance – folk schools, new secondary schools, polytechnics, vocational schools, general special schools: These are all things that are 100 percent received and financed by the communities. The question of fire brigade, the question of rescue: If one of us calls for the rescue today, that's why it goes out of the garage because to a large extent the communities and cities finance it. That's what I'm looking at when the communities no longer have money and the rescue car no longer gets out of the garage! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The hospitals are financed to a large extent by the municipalities as well as the care. The infrastructure as a whole is financed by the municipalities. If we get up in the early morning and put ourselves in the shower, then of course we assume that water is running down, and we also assume that it is going to end again, but for that to happen, daily work in the municipalities is necessary. This is because the municipalities are financially side by side. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why I believe that it is important that we finally take the issue seriously, because the first communities are very soon, at the latest in June, July, if nothing happens here, sleeping into inability to pay, and then we are talking about exactly these offers, which are then no longer guaranteed in the communities. I hear from some parts of the EIA that there is already a little bit of a solution, namely, just as a non-solution as it is currently available to many companies, namely that the EIA countries say: Well, we are now lifting the Maastricht criteria and allowing the communities to receive additional loans! – That’s just as little a solution as it is a solution for companies when they say: We don't help you financially, but get a credit and see how you pay him back the next few years! – It is also the same with the communities, and that is a disaster! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But it is still a second aspect, and I would also like to say it quite consciously, because this is probably still too little in the focus: There must also be – perhaps we are already there; if not, we will soon be there – a day after the corona crisis. There must also be a day when you really try to raise the economy. There must also be a day when one really tries to fight unemployment seriously and to see that those who are now in short work do not slumber into unemployment afterwards. If you know that, first of all, most of the companies are individuals or small and medium-sized enterprises, second, that most of the employees are in these small and medium-sized enterprises, and third, that the municipalities are by far the largest investors in our Republic, then you can figure out about how to get the economy out of the way and how you can't fight unemployment, namely by not giving the communities financial resources so that they can invest. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen, will not see how it can help the small electrician, the small installer, the small carpenter in my community. This is the task of the communities, and this is what the communities do. [[Abg. Hörl: The economy!]] We like to do this, and so that we can continue to do so, we also need the necessary financial resources to help the small electrician, the small carpenter, the small installer and so on. If we don't get the money, then all the communities will screw back their projects and then we will continue to slumber from the Corona crisis into a massive economic crisis. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] In this sense: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, jump over your shadows, especially over your turquoise treasure! Give me a back! [[towards ÖVP]] The municipalities need financial resources to boost the economy. We in the local authorities need financial resources so that we can fight unemployment intensively and massively. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e15327	Next item is the report by Mr Hofinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e15348	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! I am actually glad that we have this request here in plenary today and can finally discuss the communities and their situation in the Corona crisis. I would like to reject one thing very strongly in advance: This request again contains a wording that shifts responsibility for the situation of the corona crisis to the government, but not the government is responsible for the corona crisis and its impact, but it is a global crisis. I think we have taken the right steps here, and I therefore turn this statement back to the sharpest. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Now on the situation of the municipalities: Yeah, we're in a crisis like we've never had before, and we don't know how it will end either. It is true that we have less income in the municipalities in terms of income and in terms of local tax. It is also true that we have more expenditure in the health sector, especially in the healthcare sector and in the care sector. However, it is also true that all local authorities have less revenue: Land and Federation. We're all sitting in the same boat. I would like to say one thing: It is important to distinguish between the tasks of the municipalities, whether they are the fulfilment of legal requirements – Mr Kollross has already mentioned this –: Childcare, the tasks as a schoolkeeper; we also have everything to do in the care area and at the Red Cross services. However, the municipalities must not be underestimated as an economic motor for the regional economy. We, the local authorities, are making a very important contribution to the regional economy, even if we are unable to implement some projects in the present situation, but have to delay them. But I find that there are great outrages from the mayors. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] How can we actually cope with this crisis in the sense of the communities? – The most important, incisive and best way is to re-create the economy, that the funds flow from the municipal tax again. In my opinion, this is very important for the communities. According to the Federal Ministry of Finance's forecast for 2020, there is a reduction of 4.1 percent in earnings. However, there are also municipalities that do not have municipal tax revenue, have few farms and cannot compensate for their budgets. In this context, I would like to say one thing: We are well aware that this is a very difficult situation, but we want to see, together with the federal government and the countries, that these communities will also be well in the future. I promise we won't leave a mayor and no community in the rain. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Finally, I would like to thank all the mayors and all the mayors during this very challenging period. with them, their servants, and Officials are not only a large economic engine, but also the backbone for the people in the countryside and a very special service provider at that time. I thank you for your great work and for this tireless commitment! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e15418	Next item is the report by Mr Köchl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e15439	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen! As mayor of a small market community, it is my particular concern to talk about communities. And that's Mr. Ing. Hofinger, my previous speaker, has just said that he is glad that this request has been tabled by my colleague, Mr Kollross and Mr Schroll and me, because then one can finally talk about the communities, I already ask the question: When else would you have talked about the congregations – in autumn or when? Then if everything's too late? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Help for the communities will be absolutely necessary. There will be no other way, because, as we have heard, the share of income will collapse, and there will be a large standstill in the communities at the latest in the summer. In almost two thirds of the municipalities in Carinthia, the ÖVP is making the mayor; these are small rural communities, which will hit it very badly. That is why I today call on all mayors – starting with the president of the Austrian municipal government Alfred Riedl – to join forces and work together with the Federal Government to develop a package to really help the communities. I also call on the media and ask them to join us. I've been in the National Council for a few months now and I've been watching: If my clubwoman Rendi-Wagner, who is an expert, says: It must be tested!, then this is simply not perceived in the media; but if a few days later the Federal Chancellor says: Testing, testing, testing!, then the most important and the media jump on that. That is why I also ask the media today to take this issue seriously, because each of us lives in a community, in a larger or in a smaller one, or in a city. [[call to the FPÖ.]] We have 2 076 municipalities, 771 market municipalities, 15 large cities and 186 medium cities. If it is true that we cannot award any more orders to communities and cities in autumn, if it is so that in autumn we still do not know how the children, with their care continues, also as to the question of who is financing all of this, then I am really worried that the small businesses in our small communities can no longer exist, as we are giving municipalities in the infrastructure sector the most orders; therefore I am looking for you. In connection with the share of income, I can give my community an example of how difficult it will be: We have a total of 6 million euros in the budget, we have 2.8 million euros in income from the federal government. I also expect, on the other hand, that at the time of financial adjustment, genuinely fair negotiations will be held, that communities will really get money there, that they will not always - - - No, I will help your community in the Lesachtal above, so that it will continue to be so beautiful. [[Abg. Obernoster: Tell your people!]] Be glad that we help, because you yourselves, the mayor of the ÖVP, would have done nothing anyway! I'm glad we're looking at it! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Smoking.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] This makes up 423,000 euros for us if I count only 20 percent. We are a community that is not so bad as regards the municipal tax – we also sell 200 000 euros. Where are we to get 600 000 euros? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] How's that going? Please, mayors and mayors, we usually do not make politics, but we stand together, we help Alfred Riedl! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Please take care of yourself in your group, too. It can't be that only the corporations or any large companies can do everything, but let's help the communities – that's the basic basis and that also creates jobs. That's what I wanted to say here.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e15519	The next item is the report by Mr Angerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e15540	Mr President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Estimated citizens outside our cities and villages! Mr Hofinger, you do not need to thank us as mayor. You don't need to thank us as a municipal mandater. We don't need any good weather speeches from the ÖVP. You must finally act! You're supposed to do something at last! We are concerned to be able to maintain the services for our citizens outside – not for us, not for us mayors, not for the thousands of municipal mandates who work volunteer, who do not earn large political salaries that make it voluntary and stand for their home, sit in the councils and see that childcare works, that the public school works, that the primary school works, that the retirement home works, that the water supply works, that the canal works, that our streets are directed and, and, and. That's what we're doing out there and that's why we're worried. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Thank God there are also some mayors at SPÖ who worry about it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kirchbaumer.]] Who's the community? – The community are the citizens outside. We will no longer be able to maintain these achievements, and we must be aware of that. If you look at the transfer services today, if you look at how the individual municipalities in the individual federal states co-finance other services – this is primarily about the hospital sector, the health sector and the social sector – I have to ask you the question: What are we going to lock first? [[Call the ÖVP: Such a fool!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Hospitals? In Hermagor, in Spittal, in Villach? Where are we gonna lock up? Where are we saving? What kind of old-age homes do we lock down? Are we setting up childcare? What do we do first when the communities are no longer eligible for funding? It is therefore not about mayors and any officials or the communities as such, but about the benefits that our people need outside the towns. This is already known to you, but you come out here and speak beautiful weather, but you have no solutions! We made a request at the last meeting. What is essential here is the financing of projects, which we will then also get into the economy with which we can help our small and medium-sized enterprises outside again. One can do this about the communities, the communities do it, they do it for years, over decades, and of it the small and medium-sized enterprises in our regions live. We must ensure that they are financed. [[Complementary by members of FPÖ and SPÖ.]] Of course, we must try to compensate for the loss of revenue in some form. I have nothing against the fact that there is currently a need to resettle voluntary benefits. It will also be understood that you may not be able to pay out an association promotion in the next few years and, and so. That's where we're gonna have to save a bissel. But the most necessary thing we will have to do in the communities outside, is no different. When I look at child care today in Carinthia – I also have to take the SPÖ to the duty: We are still obliged to operate kindergartens. Mr. Landeshauptmann Kaiser has been propagating the Free Kindergarten in Carinthia for years, which was the big election topic in 2018. What is the first thing that Mr. Landeshupt now does? – He reduces his contribution by 50 percent, he turns back 50 percent of payments. We remain 100 percent dependent on our services. So this is also two-edged what Mr. Landeshuptmann is doing here in Carinthia. I find – I appeal to all, from top to bottom, from the Federal Government, from the National Council, from the national leaders to our local representatives – that we should sit down and think seriously about it and also speak honestly and openly about how we can maintain the benefits for our people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e15598	Mrs Tomaselli is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e15619	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard it many times today: Corona changes Austria. Intellected, always daily life is no longer like that, and this also concerns the complete organization of the communities that has changed at one time. There is de facto – I have thought about it for a long time – no area of activity at the community level, which remains untouched by the Corona crisis: Childcare, civil service, disposal and, and. You had to change everything. The communities make a very, very good crisis management. They not only respond to all the closures of public general care, no, they also offer other services. For example, I think that many communities are organizing volunteers who take the people at increased risk, or that case management has been rapidly installed in many communities in the care sector. In my home town of Feldkirch, the city marketing has taken over the deliveries for the city center shops in order to keep them competitive over Amazon, Zalando and Consortia. – Thank you, therefore, not only to the mayors, but to all at community level. You do an excellent job, thank you very much, on you is left! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] At the same time – we have great understanding – there is also fear in Austria's municipal offices. It's the fear of the budget hole. The municipalities are double hit by the fact that not only do the Community's federal taxes – this concerns all local authorities – but it can also be reduced by up to 50 percent due to unemployment and short-time work. Mr Kollross, you are quite right: If these revenue is missing, there must also be cuts in expenditure somewhere, and this then relates again to school, children, the environment, health, or the communities come into a liquidity trap. If we want to prevent this – I think that links us across fractions – it needs a package for the communities to ensure their ability to act. We Greens, however, want the cities and communities to keep the issue of action in hand. Communities need sufficient financial resources to challenge their huge field of responsibility – that was already the case before the Corona crisis –: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross]] Childcare, Public Health, so – we heard it today – all the things we like to use. But we want the communities to be independent and self-determined. The best way to go is and remains, in our opinion, to strengthen the ownership of the funding of the communities, and this is sustainable. We are also pleased that this is very firmly anchored in the government programme. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] For example, it would be the best time to give communities the opportunity to increase their own resources, their own revenue. The municipal government wishes for a long time, for reasons of fairness and in the sense of the land savings, it is already overdue: So we could reform the basic tax once. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens and the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] By the way, it is also the time, I think – we haven't talked about this yet – that we say goodbye to old patterns. Last week – you've all heard it – the country's financial referents have made it clear that they want to stick to the financial balance, to extend it again – again. Sorry, that's actually the wrong sign. In recent years, there has been an increase in the scarcity between financial and financial weak communities, and this is, of course, worsened by the corona crisis. Then, too, the climate crisis would be once again such a powerful act that we have to deal with in general terms. Therefore, an appeal to the countries: Please say goodbye to this yesterday's attitude! And, please, you, too, are financially under the arms of the communities, because that will not be possible to vote all of the Federation alone! In summary, ladies and gentlemen – we have already heard it today –: [[towards SPÖ]] We have postponed your request to the Budget Committee. That is why we have done so because, although you have heard that, we share your views to help the financially weak communities to cope with the corona crisis, but you remain guilty of many answers in your request. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Waller]] On the one hand, they want to relieve the particularly financial communities because they want to replace the municipal tax. What to do You then have topography with the communities that challenge demography, location, topography? You don't say anything about these points. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Why don't you want to participate in the countries, including the already mentioned financial package? And what do you do, above all, with the community's own resources? [[Abg. Stäger: What own resources?]] In conclusion: Clubobmann Leichtfried said earlier, that's a stuffed law, I'd say once: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scrolling]] This request is an impenetrable quick shot so as not to say Husch-Fusch-proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e15721	Members of the European Parliament are speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e15742	Mr President. High house! Values Advisors! The SPÖ is already right when it points out that it will become harder for the communities in the near future. On the income side, the municipalities have to expect massive cuts, for example, the municipal tax on the wage sum. Unlike SPÖ, however, we believe that you have to solve the problem differently. We believe that it is a matter of restructuring the finances between the federal, state and local authorities, so the financial balance is at the centre of our attention. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is really the root of the evil of the Austrian federalism crag. The basic principle is: The Federal Government raises taxes, the countries and the municipalities then spend a part of it, depending on their fields of activity. As problematic as this is, we see in the crisis right now, when we hear that the local authorities are buying – buying masks, whatever they buy – and of course in retrospect claim that the federal government pays everything. That is precisely what we are seeing. Ladies and gentlemen! It cannot be that in the countries and in the communities everyone continues to do what he wants, and the federal government – we say, taxpayers – then paid the bill at the end of the day. As we heard last Friday, the countries – my colleague has already mentioned it – are calling for the planned reform of the financial compensation to be postponed indefinitely. Now is not the time of the reforms, because we would be in the crisis. And seriously: Unfortunately, the fact that the national financial experts are taking advantage of the crisis to preserve this crusade in order to preserve this old construction and to wall it together was to be expected. But there is no reason for inactivity. Right now, it would be the right time to talk exactly about this financial compensation. What does it need? – From our point of view, we need a comprehensive reform of tasks, expenditure and revenue. The responsibility for tasks, expenditure and revenue must be brought together. This means that we must re-distribut the responsibilities between the federal, state and local authorities. We need to be much more efficient, much more effective in many areas. This concerns, for example, – my colleague Gerald Loacker speaks often and more often – health and care. It is much inefficient, and above all the money does not stop where it belongs, namely to the patient. And yes, we also have to consider funding. The funding is really reformed. From our point of view, we need a partial tax autonomy of the countries and the municipalities. One thing, ladies and gentlemen, is also certain: In the moment that the countries and municipalities themselves collect part of the taxes, they will be guaranteed more economical on the one hand, but on the other hand, the municipalities will become a bit more independent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] That is why it is precisely the right time to deal with this long overdue restructuring in the financing of federal, state and local authorities. But, as we have said – we have heard it –: The countries seem to have no desire at the moment, and this will be expensive; it will be expensive especially for taxpayers and taxpayers. As we speak of the taxpayer and the taxpayer: They also have a different right, namely a right to transparency. Mr Kollross – Mr Kollross has tabled the request today – and I think I may say, Mayor Kollross, you are also a member of a community Do you know the homepage www.openerbouss.at? [[Abg. Kollross: Yes!]] [[Abg. Kollross: (to point out his ear) I didn't understand!]] – www.open budget.at! – Have you ever looked at it before? - We looked at it too. [[Abg. Kollross: Yes, sure!]] [[Abg. Kollross nodds.]] I think you're in the community of Trumau mayor, as far as I know, gal? [[Abg. Kollross: Yes!]] So, that's the sketch. [[The speaker has an expression in the height on which some blue areas, an orange area and a white surface can be seen.]] You don't see it very well now, that's due time: Trumau is the white one in the middle, all the other municipalities around it carry their data and their municipal events in www.opener budget.at, Trumau does not enter at all. [[Abg. Kollross: Yes! Homepage! Look at the homepage!]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kollross: Look at the homepage!]] And seriously: Do you want more money for the communities? – I think this is a real concern, but you also need to comply with the rules of transparency and enter the data on this homepage. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kollross: Www.trumau.at! On the Internet...!]] You can't preach water and drink wine, I wanted to say. [[Cheerfulness of the speaker.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Call to the ÖVP:Very good speech!]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] My conclusion to return to the request: There is no need to extend the current financial compensation, we need profound reforms of the system: Task, expenditure and revenue responsibilities belong together. One last sentence: 1 440 municipalities still have their births at www.opener budget.at. I'm going to look at it next week, maybe the community of Trumau has joined us? – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e15949	No one is reporting on this. – May I ask for attention?- Oh, my God! We shall now proceed to the vote on a request. Should we interrupt? Are the clubs complete? SPÖ? - Okay. Green? NEOS? - Okay. FPÖ? - Okay. ÖVP? - Well, then we can vote. We come to the vote on the request by Mr Kollross, ladies and gentlemen, the Budget Committee for Reporting on Amendment 478/A(E) to 30. In April 2020, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the Member States of the Member States relating to the laws, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a sign to be given to this proposal for a deadline. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. [[Abg. Lightenness: That was embarrassing by the ÖVP now!]] [[Abg. Head: He was embarrassing...!]] [[15:36:00]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e16001	I will resume the negotiations on points 12 to 14 of the agenda. Mrs Kucharovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e16050	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! In about three weeks ago, I was standing here at the speaker's desk and talking about bread in the population. This bread is now mutated into a loud Blubbern and is short form overflowing. Keywords: 600,000 people who are unemployed; the hardness fund, which is still not available to everyone; Statements, by you, Mr President, on the commitment to apps; and – as today – intervention in our fundamental rights through the Epidemic Law. Their steps, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, are in no way understandable. They seem arbitrary, inaccorded, and completely preoccupied. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] Six weeks ago, our Republic went into a lockdown mode. It was about our health, it was about our health, that was quite, very central, no question at all. But now questions arise, and I assume that your mailboxes are as full as our questions about them: Why are there no easings and others? – keyword: Cultural events take place, others are completely forbidden. How to keep the kindergarten regulation with protection and distance so to speak? Have you ever looked into a kindergarten, how in part group sizes or spaces are designed? Or why did some shops open earlier than others? The coronation was yesterday's report! It was forbidden or there were these messages – several times, in more than 60 press conferences – not to visit friends and families – and suddenly! – Dear Federal Government, what is now? The question is simply to ask. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] Distrust is growing quite simply, even the fear of our fundamental rights, of our democracy, and you are responsible for that. I can remind you: For the first time, we have become illustrious when it came to mobile mobility profiles to go to the government, then suddenly the development of an immunity app for a private company in the area concerned travel freedom, and the statement you have already mentioned, Mr President. You took it back, but you said it: the commitment to an app! – It simply creates distrust. I know that contact tracking technologies are in use against a pandemic at the moment very high in the course, in every mouth. What must never happen, however, is that the use or non-use decides whether one can go to school or go to college or whether one is allowed to travel. We have expressed our support for voluntary action. Let's finally make it honest and really tight! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Today you drive in – without review, a Ho-ruck action – with the following: They try to exclude certain persons from gatherings of events, from demos, within the framework of the Epidemic Act. Do you want, for example, that only more people with gray hair can participate in something? Or would you like to exclude this group, for example? All of this would be possible with your solution, even if you have revised it four times. I have often read it, Minister, often! You sent four versions into the race today. [[Federal Minister Anschober: Yes, because it is new...!]] We know her exactly what's inside. At some point, ladies and gentlemen, we have Members to press the button, simply because we are committed to the Constitution. Today it is very clear to press this stop button, because every pandemic fight has quite clear limits: [[Complaints with the SPÖ and with representatives of FPÖ and NEOS]] Borders of democracy, the rule of law, fundamental and freedom rights, and these are never negotiable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e16118	Mr Matznetter is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e16140	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) There is some evidence from the audiences of our meeting that the opposition should highlight positive measures by the government. – I don’t always follow this, but I want to do it now: Well, soon the hairdressers will lock up again. Many are waiting for me, too – the Federal Minister and colleague Shetty not so, but the others are doing it. – That would be my positive contribution. The reason why I am referring to a subject which is actually within the competence of the Health Committee is another: As a result, this government, which already wanted to delete the application of the Epidemic Law on the closure of holdings in the first package of measures, with the intention of excluding them all from a compensation under the Epidemic Act, is trying to do something like this again. [[Abg. Schellhorn: Yes!]] Suddenly, we find in the health committee a paragraph 6 in § 32 in the relevant section, according to which the competent Federal Minister can determine by regulation the amount of compensation. Now you're wondering first: If they've removed this, what does he have to set a height for? – The answer is relatively simple: [[Federal Minister Anschober: United!]] You have it on 14/15. March so sloppy that They have made the exclusion only for the closure of the plants. However, you have forgotten that the German Federal Minister's decree was not a closure of businesses, but the introduction of traffic restrictions, which is nothing but a isolation of suspects of disease in accordance with the 1950 Epidemic Act. I made a pattern application myself during the night, which hundreds have already downloaded, and suddenly there's a problem. But what you are planning now, ladies and gentlemen, would be like allowing someone who is driving me in the back of the car, who is clearly guilty and who has to pay me the full amount of property – and so it is in the epidemic law: the full property damage – to determine the amount of my property damage. [[Abg. Belakovich: How much percent!]] Is that what you're talking What do you need them for, Doctor? This is just a beauty thing that is also overrated! – He determines how much the damage may be. Thus the Minister, who is responsible for representing the executive, sets the height himself! – I don’t pack you anymore, really! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let things be like that! Give the people the full compensation, then there are no bankruptcys and hopefully not a million unemployed! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e16207	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. [[15:44:02]] 15. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 422/A(E) by Mr Philip Kucher, Members of Parliament, on the Austrian-wide single Master Plan on Rising the Health System (133 d.e.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e16242	We're going to the 15th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Köllner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e16270	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Appreciate viewers at home! I think we agree when I say that sport is the most useful form of leisure work. Countless studies show that sport not only strengthens the immune system but also relieves the health system. In the course of this health debate, we must therefore also focus on sport, because while other areas of life have received or have already received support in times like this, the sport is still seriously neglected. Since the beginning of the restrictions by the Corona crisis, there have been calls for help from the sports sector. Every day I report to desperate officials, athletes and sports venue operators and ask why they are left left by the Federal Government. It is also incomprehensible why the students should be able to teach indoors, sport and movement outdoors but not. For weeks, there has been a lack of clarity, the people tap in the dark and don't really know how it goes on. What all sports enthusiasts need, these are immediate and concrete solutions as regards the opening of sports venues and the exercise of sports. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What they definitely cannot need, however, are press conferences and appearances of the Minister of Sports, such as in “Sport on Sunday”, in which responsibility for his fellow party health minister is pushed up and more questions are raised than answers are given. If you, dear Minister, just continue as half-heartedly as you have been, you leave 15 000 sports clubs, 2.1 million members, 570,000 functionaries as well as thousands of sports venue operators, fitness and yoga studios! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The clock ticks, it's five after twelve. For 20 years I was a member of the football club in my home community, and even if it did not work for a professional career, I would like to remember the beautiful moments, for example, when celebrating a master title. Of course, there are not only rosy times in sports clubs, for example when the economic situation presents the volunteer officials with great challenges because they are privately held liable for the liabilities of the club. At the very moment, the Corona crisis is preparing sports clubs to break their heads. Due to the limitations and the rejection of events, they face significant losses in revenue; Admission fees, canteen receipts, membership contributions and sponsorships are excluded, while fixed costs, operating costs and personnel costs remain. The fact is that there has already been considerable damage. Therefore, it takes immediate financial support for the sports clubs to help them get back on their feet. If the great successes are achieved, the members of the The Federal Government – most are not there now – is not far to knock the athletes on the shoulders and to bathe in the spotlight of the media. The sports clubs have a huge significance for our society, so end with the lip confessions and announcements! Support the clubs actively, otherwise Vienna Derbys between Rapid and Austria are just as likely to listen to the past as the Unterhausderby between Illmitz and Apetlon! I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Live the sport! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[15:48]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e16436	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Smolle is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e16465	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The request concerning the gradual rise, the recovery of our health system, or perhaps the reorientation of our health system, after an acute phase is over, is a welcome occasion for me to appreciate our health system accordingly. We can be happy and proud to have this health system. At the same time, we must also be aware that in this context the prevention paradoxone again has to be particularly marked: We didn't have to get to the limits, just because we prevented the worst. Let's be glad we didn't have to go to these borders! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We are well positioned in our solidary health system. We have about twice as many intensive beds per 100 000 inhabitants as Italy, but we must be clear: If we were to have such a health disaster, as was the case in Italy, then we would have needed a lot of intensive beds. That would have overpowered us, too. Now we're good at it, and there's now a chance to get back up step by step. This concerns the intramural area, but also the settled area and, of course, the rehabilitation area, to name only the most essential players. The proposal, which has been submitted here, takes all these aspects into account, is also carefully formulated with a view to paying particular attention to reserves that might still be needed in the future. However, he wants to require the Minister of Health to adopt a plan of action which is then binding on all; and the only reason why we could not approach this request in the Health Committee is that we do not want to put something in the backpack for our Minister of Health, which he cannot fulfill. For this reason, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] It is clear to all of us that you, Mr. Federal Minister, have a very important role to play in coordinating your department at such a stage. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by expressing my thanks to all the people who work in our health care. languages: Doctors, doctors, nurses, auxiliary staff, non-medical professionals, all included. – They did great things. We can rely on you – a warm thanks. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] [[15:52]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e16600	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Brückl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e16624	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Just as the emergency service in medical care needs to be transferred back to a regular operation, as we need to ensure that non-coronapathic patients are no longer second-class patients, and as a speedy schedule by the Minister of Health, we must not forget about health care. Children, students who move too little, may become overweight early on, tend to have a cardiovascular history. Diseases and diabetes and thus simply have a worse immune system. Especially in these times, in times of a corona virus, it is all the more important that schoolchildren of all ages can get excited about a daily movement unit. The health aspect is of particular importance after a week-long prescribed quarantine. Sport reduces stress, sports strengthens community feeling, sports increases the student's attention span for education. It seems incomprehensible that at normal times there is too little movement in everyday classes; in times of pandemic it almost seems absurd. High house! For many children, school sports offers the only way to exercise sports regularly and also to experience the joy of sports and movement. Even in the government programme, the importance of daily sports is conjured, as it says: “Maximum implementation of the daily movement unit for all children and young people until the end of compulsory schooling”. We strongly criticised Mr. Fässmann last week when he announced the timetable for school openings, saying: We're leaving the turn hour on the left, we're gonna drop the gym! – The President of the Federal Sports Organisation and thus the Chief Sport Officer of our country, Hans Niessl, has committed us to our criticism. In an interview with the “standard” he said: “I’m surprised, and I’m disappointed. Many studies have shown the contribution of sport to health and how important it is in learning behaviour. If he had looked at the studies, he would have had to do exactly the opposite. He should have tried to make the students move as much as possible every day.” High house! The fact is: Children and students need movement. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The gym can be held outdoors, there can be walks, there can be walks, and because of the smaller classes there is also a sport lesson in the gyms or in the surrounding sports venues possible. High house! Our whole country suffers from the Corona crisis, we all suffer, and this is particularly true of those institutions, companies and associations that are there for the health care of Austrians – gyms as well as thousands of sports clubs. It is just the sport and it is the movement that is also evident to health and to our economy. Fixed costs, which continue to run, outstanding membership and sponsor contributions, as well as missing admission fees, have provided financial bottlenecks that have taken on existing, real-life-threatening levels in recent weeks. Therefore, it is now necessary to promote appropriate health care, to support health facilities in sport in order to ensure their survival. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] It is our task, it is our policy to finally bring Austria out of this crisis and to end this corona madness that is happening. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[15:57]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e16777	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and under negotiation. So we come to the next speaker: Christoph Zarits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e16805	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to take the opportunity to address the sport chapter as well. I was a football player myself, I trained young people in my community – this has made me very, very fun – and of course I know from my own experience: Many who sit here, and many who watch, many officials at home in the communities or also in the cities are missing something. Especially in the spring, we will of course end up with this beautiful weather of sports, the sport that we ourselves do, but also the sport we consume on television or also on football courts. Of course, we all hope that we can overcome this crisis as soon as possible, that we can re-operate in sports. Doing sports is especially important for children and young people. I have seen at our sports club how important it is for the health that the children come together that the children are moving. For me, however, it was always crucial that the children learn very, very much during sports. I say now that children learn to accept rules of conduct, children learn how to deal with each other, and of course we want to do so again as soon as possible. And here we are in a good situation because we have taken the right measures in the last six weeks and have come through the crisis better than other countries. I understand, of course, that many club officials, who make it voluntary, want to resume their activities, and I would like to thank you very much for understanding that this may not be possible anywhere now – a warm thank you for that. I am happy when we can all meet again on football courts, tennis courts or on other sports facilities and enjoy and exercise our sport. To what Mr Köllner said earlier: The Minister of Sport said it in “Sport on Sunday” two days ago and also outlined the plan as it goes on in sport as the sports venues continue. The plan, which sports venues are gradually opened and which sports are allowed, is also published on the homepage of the BSO and the Ministry. Perhaps Mr Köllner will take a look at what happened from 1. ==References== ==References== May several outdoor sports are allowed again, and I naturally hope that many people and many athletes will also accept the offer. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Of course, there will also be a hardness fund for the associations. In the past, we have shown that we do not abandon anyone, both with entrepreneurs and with employees. The Federal Government does not let anyone down, and the sports clubs and also the other clubs can rely on our help. Finally, I should like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I speak here as an association official, I speak as an enthusiastic sportsman and appeal to all officials and all members of the associations: Let's keep our clubs faithful! Together we master the crisis, and we can look at our beloved sport again and also practice it again. Thank you. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Vogluwer.]] [[16:01]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e16962	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Dietmar Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e16989	Madam President. Federal Minister! The proposal we are discussing here deals with an Austrian-wide single master plan for raising the health system. Due to the corona crisis, the economic system has been shut down, the health system has been shut down, operations have been postponed, treatments have been postponed so that places for corona can be freed. Not only has the health system, say hospitals, been run down, but there have also been massive cuts in the old and nursing homes. I have already read an e-mail in the Health Committee, which really has the most massive handicaps of the residents in a nursing home, and that is not the only e-mail I have received. I have received many others, and I would like to read one again today so that you know what situation our seniors are in the nursing homes, which scenes are taking place there. I received the following mail – I quote –: ‘Subject-matter display: Dramatic scenes have recently taken place in the nursing home [...]. Old people screamed for help and threw papers out of the windows with the inscription: ,Please help us! They lock us in!’ Then the staff collected the papers to cover up the matter so that nothing can be transmitted to the public. A very sad balance sheet: for almost seven weeks, the inmates of the nursing home [...] were not allowed to go into the open. Patients who wanted to “break out” were detained by caregivers and locked in the rooms. Out of despair, the victims and their relatives turned to the local mayor for help [...], but "he can't do anything, because his hands are tied", it was said. Due to the constant pressure, and because of fear of the alleged abuses, a ‘notional solution’ was carried out: At the entrance of the nursing home, a high opaque wooden fence was constructed provisionally and a small area was covered where the old people are now allowed to stay for an hour every day; for the purpose of calming down querulants’. This open space is very small in its design and gives the impression of an animal hoge /. Prison court. Our request to you is that for the old people in the nursing home, [...] one creates a decent possibility of movement outdoors. Please help us!" – The name is on it, so it has not come anonymously. Ladies and gentlemen! What is happening in the old and care homes is partly due to the government's advertising campaigns. Indeed, there have been advertisements that specifically the elderly, who are to hold back risk groups, should not visit their grandparents anymore. There are many people who out of fear that they might infect someone, have been in the apartment for seven weeks and don't trust themselves anymore. I also received very, very many emails in this respect. A patient lawyer once said: You can not only die through Corona, there is also social death!, and this danger you have created by all these measures. It is absolutely necessary, Mr Federal Minister – really my appeal to you – to make a very clear statement that the old people in the old and care homes should finally be given results, just as everyone else did, for many have understood the measures that have been taken: Old people are incarcerated, for these are the infectious agents!, and this false understanding urgently belongs to an annihilation.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e17048	Next speaker: Mr Rudolf Silvan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e17072	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen at home! After our request for recovery of the health system in the Health Committee was rejected, I am very glad that this motion for a resolution has come from the government groups to ensure a gradual up-dating of the health system. We need a concrete roadmap, a master plan set by experts for a gradual transition to normal operation in hospitals and established areas. Why is that so important? – A concrete example of last weekend: The government looses the starting restrictions, leisure sports is allowed again more. But what one has not thought of in this context is the accumulation of the resulting accidents. Last weekend, there were bottlenecks in various accident ambulances. So doctors from the Salzburg accident hospital have told me that they were very surprised if the number of accident patients. If you decide to relax, you have to think about the possible effects on the health system, ladies and gentlemen! The second point is that many people are waiting for operations. The longer surgery dates and treatments are postponed, the greater the risk of consequential damage. We know that. It cannot be as reported in the media that a 45-year-old aneurysspathist has been waiting for his surgery for months and has been postponed to an indefinite time. It can't be that cancer patients don't know when to receive their next chemotherapy. It must not follow the pandemic of forgotten and overlooked people, ladies and gentlemen, after the Corona pandemic. People need perspectives. The third point is that consideration must be given to workers when the health system comes up. You know, ladies and gentlemen, it's not reassuring for a writer in the initial investigation, for an ordination assistant to a local doctor, for an operation assistant or a doctor in the hospital when the Federal Chancellor speaks of the rest in front of the storm. It is not reassuring for these workers when the head of government speaks of thousands of dead and coffins. The workers who have been permanently exposed to this danger for weeks need safety, trust, recognition, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Approved: We support, of course, the petition of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, which has now signed more than 104 000 people who are calling for the Corona Thousands to work for those workers who cannot stay at home because they need to work. This is primarily a matter of recognition, of appreciation for people who are exposed to a high health risk every day. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e17123	No one is reporting on this. That concludes this debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I shall put the vote on this item on the agenda until after the discussion on TOP 16; this is the next item on the agenda, on which three speakers have yet to speak – only to prepare for the vote. [[16:09:33]] Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e17151	I announce that in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, 2/US, concerning ‘the establishment of an investigative committee in accordance with § 33 para. 1 GOG-NR to investigate political responsibility in connection with alarming disinformation policy and abuse of power by the Black and Green Federal Government on Covid-19 (COVID19 Investigation Committee)’. In accordance with § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure to all Members. The assignment of the application to the Committee for Rules of Procedure shall be made in accordance with § 33 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure at the end of this sitting. [[16:10:11]] 16. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 472/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on ELGA enlargement, as well as research and EU interface (135 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e17184	This leads us to the 16th place. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First speaker: Mr Markus Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e17211	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! I really think it is quite surprising that there is a request from Mr Loacker, whom we will agree with, and the government parties are not worth the effort to really deal with it intensively; a speaker will speak about it. We have all learned that Elga is now, in the crisis, something that is important; and a motion for a resolution – and we have already heard it today – is not something that is grounded in stone. A motion for a resolution is an invitation to deal with proposals for improvement which, in my view, are correct, whose direction of impact is correct, and there is, of course, still need to be discussed how to reach a solution together, because there are many open questions. We have heard today that it With regard to a motion for a resolution, there are clear scope for interpretation: Has the Federal Chancellor actually kept what he has promised that it will be implemented, or is it more so – with us this feeling is there, from our point of view it is so – that what was meant in a resolution has not been observed? A motion for a resolution offers very many possibilities. We have now come to know – and I think that was very, very important to many people in the Corona crisis – that one of the tools that has not yet been activated was now available in the crisis, namely the possibility that one can exhibit a recipe electronically, goes to the pharmacy without having gone to the doctor before. I would like to recall the introduction of Elga, how intense the discussion here in the House was, and I would like to thank once again the then Minister of Health Stöger, who really fought this important instrument against many resistances at the time, so that we have it at our disposal today. We see how important this instrument is in today's times, and I believe it is also noticed that it often needs courage. The Federal Chancellor said yesterday in his speech on the occasion of 75 years of the Republic that it needs courage for the future. That's what I'm asking myself: Where was the courage of the ÖVP in the committee? Why did one not simply support this request? That's a bit of courage. We know that when it comes to data processing, it is sensitive, that needs discussion, there are resistances. The fact that one has to accept these resistances, that one has to accompany them, has shown the discussion about Elga, because today we can do a lot electronically, but we realize that we have a problem where people have used opt-out. opt-out is all right. I think it is important that people can decide which data is stored, but we also know with what arguments people were more or less unsure at the time that they deliberately chose opt-out because they did not trust the entire system. This may also be a reference to the Federal Government: What you are doing in this crisis is slowly leading to the fact that there may also be an opt-out of people in this country in the crisis, who no longer trust you, who no longer trust that you have the right solutions to the crisis.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e17260	Next speaker: Mr Werner Saxinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e17281	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! In my first speech as a new Member and a hospital doctor in a large clinic, allow me to reflect on the current crisis situation with a few words and thoughts! Our world has suddenly become different, both in large and in small. For a few weeks, a small invisible virus has been holding the world in breath, in check, and throwing it all out of the way. There is a pandemic, a situation which, although always possible, was always discussed in the expert group, but actually seemed unrealistic. You can react differently to this new situation for all of us: You can put your head in the sand, try to sit down or stop the threatening chaos and the medical collapse with active countermeasures. Austria has opted for a path that has now become a model for other countries. We have had to put down a painful full brake in the areas of society and economy, the medical structures in the hospitals have been completely changed within a short time: We have created bed capacity, installed new service bikes, locks and infection departments. Everyone in the hospital is working together, working together and helping each other in the sense of the whole. – And yes, in the first step, we all achieved really objective successes together. Our figures – but they are about people – are very good and slightly lower than feared. There are now a few voices that say – I hear that again and again: Yeah, it's not that bad that we didn't need this shutdown at all! – I say to you: We are very good at this because, first, we have responded quickly, because we have put in place the right measures and thirdly because the people have admirably and exemplaryly contributed and implemented the recommended measures. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] That's what it's like to say, thanks again and again. Other states have tried different for the time being, but have also turned to our line due to non-controllable situations, but later on. Yes, and Sweden, also in colleagues, is often called a parade example of another way, a light variant that is better compatible with our normal everyday life; but I can remind you: In Sweden, the death rate is currently four times higher than with us, and the economy is also facing a drastic recession. [[Abg. Kickl: Together, it's over!]] Now comes stage two: less difficult, more unpredictable. Some believe that now, after the first success, the virus has been eradicated and – hollodaro – you can live again as before. - That's a trick. Due to the measures put in place, we have only a large part of it and are fortunately far away from a medical inferno in the hospitals, but it can come back at any time quickly. The level plan, the step-by-step touch under constant observation, is sensible, consistent, thoughtful, but it is, as I said, a balance act, a dance on the shaving blade. But we all notice in these extraordinary weeks with ourselves and with many other people also inconsistency, uncertainty, and health is now increasingly seen as a counterpart of economy. Ladies and gentlemen! Health is the highest good of human beings, there is no economy without health, but of course it is also clear to everyone that our currently good health system can exist only on the basis of a functioning economy and is financed by it. I think solidarity with one another is very important, from young, old, sick, healthy. Ladies and gentlemen! I am in principle an optimistic person who tries to accept and shape things with a positive view of the world and appreciation. In this sense, I ask everyone: Let's get together! We all sit in the same boat, only together we are strong and can master the crisis. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] A final sentence on the request from the Health Committee: This is a general Elga extension, an EU interface for an international corona data set. I know Elga from everyday life, from everyday use very well, with all the advantages, but also weaknesses. In times like this one, a further development of Elga does not seem to us as a primary task, and we also see the EU interface problem very skeptical at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e17332	Mr Gerald Loacker has now been spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e17353	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Saxinger is lucky that the President's management of the meeting is so generous, otherwise she should have interrupted and asked him to speak on the matter much earlier. [[Abg. Belakovich: That was his first speech!]] He swaddered there for 4 minutes without responding to the present request. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] - Oh, are we a bit sensitive at the ÖVP? [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] I have praised the generous leadership of the President that you could also acknowledge that. This request is about making better use of the data in our health system. It is symptomatic that the Greens do not sign up to this item on the agenda at all. With data in the health system, the Greens have nothing to do with the hat, which is demonstrated by the Federal Minister on a daily basis. To date, we do not know what prediseases the people who have come to the hospital because of Covid-19, we do not even know whether they have come to the hospital with or without prediseases. We also have no idea why of those suffering from Covid in the Styria die three times as many as in Vorarlberg. – Data doesn’t matter, rather a press conference! You could really achieve a lot with a good system: Everyone now hopes that a vaccination against this virus will be developed, and then, of course, this vaccination will also come into the electronic vaccination – I hope at least –; but then, of course, you already have to include it in the electronic vaccination if someone has developed antibodies because he has the disease behind him. One would now have to order Elga GmbH to further develop the electronic vaccination passport in this direction, which is the aim of the application. The Ministry does not want this, the turquoise-green majority does not want it. The project should now be started so that the box runs when the vaccination is there. The application is far more complete. In the “Kurier” interview, for example, the Minister of Health had to admit that this is a bit of a problem with the risk groups because social security does not have the medication data of the hospitals. It is therefore necessary to link the patient data of the hospitals with those of social security in order to get an overall picture. This could not only give you a better picture of the patient, but also better check the interaction of medications because everything would be in a system. We also need a comprehensive diagnosis and drug coding, there are international codes. If we picture this coding in our system, as the Germans do, for example, then this system would be better compatible even if it comes to a Europe-wide data balance. Especially in the case of diseases that are not so common, larger reference groups are needed to research them and to continue in science. But who cares about science if you can make a nice press conference? The Federal Chancellor has said that when it comes to opening our country, he only wants a corona alliance with – literally – smart countries. [[Abg. Belakovich: With Ischgl!]] – Yes, I can only advise all European countries not to do such a corona alliance with Austria, because what we record is certainly not the term smart countries. Data is a secret with us. For example, I know that today, the unemployment data can only be called after a month, because they are somehow knocked in manually. I don't know why they can be called up in Johannes Kopf's office, but maybe I can explain this to Mrs. Graf once. So we don't want data. [[We welcome the NEOS and the Deputies Lausch and Schnedlitz.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kirchbaumer.]] Just keep saying: The corona opening strategy of this Federal Government is really a joke! They have not used the time of the lockdown to accompany the phase of the opening with data substantially. We do not have data on the corona epidemic in Austria, we only have very rough data. There are no steps to improve the system. If something like this happens again, we'll be there in a year just as unsuspectingly as we do today. We don't even use the systems we have to network them and get a better picture. Instead, we only get transparency and staging.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e17429	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. I pointed out at the beginning of this item on the agenda that, as agreed, we will vote after this debate. I ask, with a brief look at the club members, whether there is a need for a break in the sitting or whether we can enter the voting process. . I have the impression that we can enter into the voting process, which I will do with it. We shall proceed to the vote on all the reports of the Committee on Health, which I shall, of course, make separately on each request. First of all, we are voting on the request by Members Kucher, ladies and gentlemen, on item 13 of the agenda. To refer COVID-19 legislation back to the Health Committee. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 12: Draft concerning 13. COVID-19 Act with title and entry in 131 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to the draft law to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives the consent in third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft law is therefore adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Yannick Shetty, colleagues on ‘Opening blood donation – saving lives’. I call for a sign to be given to those who support this motion for a resolution. – This is the minority, rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic, Mr Gabriela Schwarz, colleagues on 'Blood Donations without Discrimination'. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. [[30/E]] We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 13: Draft concerning 16. COVID-19 Act in 132 of the Supplements. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Schwarz, Mr Schalmeiner, Mr President, and a request for a separate vote by Members of Parliament. Therefore, I will first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or request for separate vote, following the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Mr Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Schalmeiner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an amendment on Rule 1. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall vote separately on Rule 2 as amended by the Committee's report. I am seeking the approval of those ladies and gentlemen who are giving this part of the draft law a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives his consent in third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on agenda item 14: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 134 of the supplements. If anyone speaks for this knowledge, I ask him for a sign. – The report has been taken note of by a majority. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 15: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 133 of the supplements. Who is for this consideration? – This is accepted by a majority. We shall therefore vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Maximilian Köllner, colleagues on the 'Surveillance shield for sport'. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall therefore vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schwarz, Mr Schalmeiner, Mr Kucher, Mr Cot, on the 'framework plan for a gradual up-dating of the health system'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? The request was adopted unanimously. [[31/E]] We shall therefore vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Petra Steger, colleagues, on 'health and fitness through sport'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign. – That is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members, Zarits, Prammer, and colleagues on the step-by-step opening of sport, taking into account the epidemiological development of the COVID19 virus and ensuring the financial support of our valuable sports associations. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – The request was adopted by a majority. [[32/E]] We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 16: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 135 of the supplements. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[16:29:43]] 17. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 437/A by Mr Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl, Mag. Agnes Sirkka Prammer, colleagues with regard to a federal law that amends the Integration Act 2017, the Administrative Law of the COVID-19 Act 2020, the Return Act 1982 and the Agricultural Market Austria Law 1992 (AMA Act 1992) (12. COVID-19 Act) (136 d.a.) 18. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 442/A by Dr Susanne Fürst, colleagues, on a federal law amending the Federal Law on the establishment of the Market Regulation Office “Agrarmarkt Austria” (AMA Act 1992) (137 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e17698	We come to points 17 and 18 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. I welcome the Federal Minister. There was no oral reporting. First speaker: Mrs Selma Yildirim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e17728	Madam President. Minister of Finance! Minister! High house! If we look forward to the last six weeks, the following titles could be read about the events in the House: For they do not know what they do! – We have a young chancellor who spreads fear and terror, panics, and then, if everything goes well, expects gratitude, recognition and acknowledgment. [[Abg. Lopatka: Well, yes!]] Ladies and gentlemen, what happens here, however, can no longer be described as nothing, but that is unscrupulous – unscrupulous legislation, unscrupulous policy. Today, under item 17 of the agenda, we are expected to adopt another amendment to the Corona Act. This is a request made on 22 May. April, that is less than a place, was brought in. ==References== We have dealt with it in the Constitutional Committee on April, and we have already noticed in the Committee's debate that there are many inconsistencies and that fundamental and freedom rights are being intervened. It has not been necessary to carry out a committee opinion, which would be serious and absolutely useful, especially when it comes to fundamental and freedom rights, but it has resulted in a new amendment being tabled to us in plenary today – five days after the Committee debate – today. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is unscrupulous! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We will make a referral request and hope that the area in which it really is a fair procedure is worth your attention in terms of key points of fundamental and freedom rights, these two weeks that it takes to look closely at. With this law decision, with what you are planning here today, lawyers should be able to work, courts should be able to deal with, and those affected should be able to defend themselves. If you look at the deadlines – even the legal users have problems – and remember that we believe these laws are for citizens who need to follow them, I do not think that they are anything but ours. Ladies and gentlemen, especially the turquoise group, please stop the lobby, consider ordinary parliamentaryism again and make serious laws here together with us.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e17771	Next speaker: Mr Friedrich Ofenauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e17792	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We are now in the seventh week of the Corona crisis. Allow me to make a few preliminary remarks, as the speeches – including those of my colleague – always speak of fear. We are now experiencing a situation that virologist Christian Drosten called the “Guardian” prevention spadoxon last Sunday: The success of measures put in place means that the measures put in place are called into question because they have been effective. And this very situation, ladies and gentlemen, we now have. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But this is like reading a crime from behind and looking forward to the beginning when you know who the murderer is. [[Abg. Kickl: Drosten is virologist and not more logical!]] [[Further call at the FPÖ:... Non-smokers!]] It is blamed, and of course, the grat between information about an actual threat and panic can be quite narrow. But sometimes I wonder: How much fear and fear is there in vaccination campaigns when it is said that it could happen to anyone that the danger is everywhere? On the other hand, the weekly press conferences of our Federal Government bring serious and material information, ladies and gentlemen, to my attention. I read that the FPÖ wants to return to normality – you have to get scared, ladies and gentlemen. One must be afraid of what FPÖ understands to be normal when considering what has happened in the framework of the BAT study committee on reconstruction plans for the State. [[Abg. Schnedlitz: Yes, you do! ... populace!]] If that was the tip of an iceberg, then I am glad that this iceberg has melted, ladies and gentlemen, dear. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Deimek and Kassinger.]] The Corona crisis has faced all of us with a challenge that we had not had before in our lifetimes. The Federal Government has done everything right from the start and done what was necessary to protect human lives. This is also the reason why our country is relatively good compared to others and now we can go back to public life step by step and take up our daily lives to a large extent. We must also be careful, however, because this crisis is far from over. We must continue to rethink our behaviour, adapt it in some way, and continue to show willingness to take action. - All of us! This also includes taking measures in the House, and I am now looking at the SPÖ, for example, not to prevent a Federal Council meeting in order to ensure that measures and laws, such as the draft here before, are taken on 1st. May enter into force. These are important measures to be taken in this administrative COVID-19 accompanying law, because it is possible to re-establish oral negotiations by authorities – of course, while respecting the hygiene rules by wearing masks and keeping distance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] This is important because many plants cannot be approved, since the authorities are not currently holding oral negotiations and there are no local eye-catchings with experts on the spot. However, it also concerns the special rules in the delivery of documents that, for example, persons placed under quarantine must not self-certify that they have adopted a notice, but that this can be done by the supplier. This would be 30. April, ladies and gentlemen, and this law provides for the extension of this measure and therefore of 1. ==References== In June, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. If this law is not extended, then it will have to be extended from 1. May on Covid-19 He also confirmed the acquisition of modesty. But this is only possible if the Federal Council also decides on this law in good time, and that would have to be this week, dear SPÖ. As slowly as we are able to approach everyday life only gradually, adjustments and decisions need to be made as quickly as possible. Of course, it is also right and important at this time to keep in mind our fundamental rights and not to forget our basic democratic values. That is exactly what we are doing, which is why we have also introduced a expiry date to the legislative packages that have been decided. Colleague Yildirim mentioned an example and referred to as so terrible: According to the criticism of a draft law, an amendment was drawn up together with the Constitutional Service in the form of an amendment. This makes some clarifications, in particular as regards the collection of objections, if parties do not have a technical opportunity to conduct an oral proceedings by video. There is an extended party hearing: The Authority must give the opportunity to allow subsequent objections. And that, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not insidious, but it is indeed a serious legislation. It is important to address criticism. We got that 75 yesterday. Celebrating the anniversary of the Second Republic and thinking of the restoration of the Republic and the achievements and achievements that led to this successful Austria. I believe that we will soon be able to look back on this very time, among other things, because we have mastered this crisis well because the Federal Government has taken the right steps for our Republic from the start. However, it is important that we continue to stick together, that everyone starts with himself, and that we also prevent, among other things, a second wave of infection. - Thank you. Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e17880	Next speaker: Mr Peter Schmiedlechner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e17904	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! – Mr President, I apologize! [[Abg. Lightness: President in!]] [[Calls and calls between Green MEPs and FPÖ.]] Yes, yes, the ÖVP and their flock discipline! – On the one hand, you announce easings, on the other hand you speak of the new normality, and we should decide laws here to remove the state of emergency for as long as possible. People don't want short-normality, they want their freedom back! As far as the AMA is concerned, all transparency is lacking, and therefore, I think, our demand for a appointment of the Board of Directors of the AMA with representatives of all parties represented in the main committee is only justified. To the ÖVP: No, it would not be a system break, because the §-7 Commission is not only sent by the social partners but also by representatives of all parties. Of course, the ÖVP does not want that. It is for me, but also for everyone else the question: What do you have to hide? The Board of Directors is currently occupied by the representatives of the Chamber of Agriculture, the Federal Chamber of Workers, the Chamber of Commerce and the Trade Union Confederation. What does it say in an old proverb? - One crow doesn't hack out the other eye. The AMA marketing is financed by marketing contributions from farmers who vote for the most part – 19.3 million euros – from EU funds – 1.3 million euros – and from other revenue – 3.8 million euros. There is a peculiarity: Farmers pay marketing contributions so that AMA marketing can advertise the manufacturing industry. This is about as if a worker had to make a contribution so that the company owner can advertise. Experience so far shows that real parliamentary control of the AMA would be important and correct. The farmers deserved this. There are not only the problems relating to the alpine area, but the Court of Auditors also makes many shortcomings clear in its reports and calls for more transparency. The final audit of the Court of Auditors of the AMA marketing revealed a wealth of irregularities, conflicts of interest and award failures. The award of advertisements to supporting associations and party media is apparently going on and on there. Of course, there is also the suspicion of hidden party funding, and I think: If the AMA marketing takes farmers' money into your hand or gets into your hand, it's a mess if this money then flows to ÖVP-near newspapers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] All parties represented here can show themselves actively and ensure genuine parliamentary control and thus greater transparency at the AMA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e17951	Next speaker: Mrs Agnes Sirkka Prammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e17977	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! We are moving the rails in front of a moving train, and we have to reroute it all the time. We have now reached the first goal and have been able to reduce the speed of the train massively. Now it is said to find step by step in an orderly life. Nevertheless, further infections need to be stopped. This also includes giving the administrative authorities the necessary tools to speed up the operation slowly. Administrative authorities should also be allowed to conduct negotiations via video conference. We have discussed the corresponding request in detail in the Constitutional Committee, and based on this discussion, we have re-enforced the wording with the addition of the Constitutional Service. I am therefore submitting the amendment tabled by Mr Gerstl and Mr Prammer to Amendment 437/A, which sets out these intensifications. The wording as amended by the amendment takes account of a speciality in the administrative procedure, namely the instrument of the preclusion. It is initially more precise how the Authority will have to agree with the parties and other parties if it intends to conduct an official act by means of the video conference. However, there are also procedures in which the collection of objections, at the latest in the oral proceedings, makes parties involved. For these cases too, the application provides for a more precise arrangement to ensure that these rights are maintained even in the course of the video-conference negotiations, which are intended to enable interested parties who have not previously raised objections which can subsequently be made on the basis of the results of the oral proceedings. In this way, we will create more security in the event of consistent legal protection. Unfortunately, I have no right to reject this request or this point at all, because it is only by the non-implementation of a Federal Council meeting in April that justice in the delivery process is put into massive distress. These arrangements, which we are making here, are intended to create the conditions for the administrative authorities to be able to reprocess applications. It is a first important step towards resumption of legal life in the administrative field. I hope we can go with the widest possible majority. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[16:46]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e18197	The amendment has been presented in the main guidelines, is properly filed and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Felix Eypeltauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e18222	Madam President. High house! Dear listeners! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to talk about an industry that we urgently need in its full force if we want the Austrian economy to regain momentum, a sector that in Austria directly and indirectly employs more than 300 000 people, which is home to around 40 000 companies and which contributes about 7 percent to GDP. It is rightly referred to by industry participants as the locomotive of the Austrian economy. It is also important to me to say that it is also the locomotives of the economy in the region. The talk is, of course, about the construction industry. Not for nothing, ladies and gentlemen, federal states such as Salzburg, but also many larger cities, with construction projects, to stimulate, invest or work with special programs in the promotion of housing. This locomotive of the Austrian economy – thank you, you have to say – has not completely come to a halt. The construction sites could not be completed Thanks to a very rapid agreement, the planners and civil engineers have been able to work out all that no authorities need in recent weeks. But – and this is annoyed by me, and that is why I am talking about it – this locomotive of our economy has been unnecessarily slowed down because Austria is still in the 1990s in terms of e-government and digital building act. That's why nothing has gone further in the last two months at the construction offices. No construction negotiations: this does not mean any building decisions; this does not mean any construction projects and in the final effect a standstill in the much quoted residential building, which we all consider so important here. Of course, this also feels the regional construction companies I spoke about at the beginning, which we will need to re-establish the economic engine in the region. Right there, in the region, from my point of view, it will also be exciting how building negotiations or local eye-catchings will work from today to tomorrow via video – as we decide today. Don't get me wrong! In principle, it is welcome that this will be possible, but it is not enough to make a law if some 2,100 municipal offices throughout Austria now have not only a reservoir, i.e. a bottleneck in construction procedures, but also the problem of lack of technical equipment and also lack of know-how. As we struggle with such things, the Scandinavian countries, but also UK, have worked through. They are at the front when it comes to civil and digital building management. The government In short is always at the front when it comes to big headlines, but not when it becomes concrete when it comes to the economy being able to work as well as possible. We also see how you deal with the economic operators in this country in these weeks. Their clients are obviously the Chamber of Commerce and not the economic operators. The failure in the eGovernment, ladies and gentlemen, is therefore directly at risk of jobs and value creation today, and they cost us important potential in the construction industry. I appeal to the Federal Government at this item on the agenda: Work Now, together with countries and communities and civil engineers! Destiny is waving you with the fence stake. We need more speed in the digitisation of the administration so that the economy can work better, and no administrative procedure – precisely because it is so multilayered – is more predestined than the construction process.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e18270	The next speaker is Mr Nikolaus Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e18291	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Schmiedlechner! Today, Parliament is discussing quite committed measures, how we can bring Austria through the crisis well and give people prospects. Together with the Federal Government, measures have been put in place that make us stand much better in comparison with other countries in the world. Then make yourself here and, instead of making a constructive proposal, want to have an additional office – perhaps for yourself or for your party. [[Abg. Kickl: You can leave one of you!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] - Weak performance! Weak idea in the crisis! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To the AMA in concrete terms: What is it about? The AMA is a public law company. [[Call the FPÖ:Eben!]] The Board of Directors you address is a supervisory body; They also call the §-7 Commission – you say there are party representatives inside – but the big difference is that the §-7 Commission is an advisory body while the Board of Directors is a supervisory body. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Schmiedlechner and Mr Stefan.]] In no public-law company in Austria are party representatives. However, the representatives of the social partners are very likely to sit there, and I think it is, as I honestly say to you, an immense fact that you regard the representatives of the social partners, who, with the Federal Government in particular, are leading this country well through the crisis with Parliament – this is true of the entire social partners. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Forging Lexer]] [[It was in favour of ÖVP and Greens, as well as of SPÖ representatives.]] In addition, you require parliamentary control of the AMA – which is already available. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Forgedlechner.]] Parliament has the possibility, under the law of interconnection, of the Court of Auditors controlling the AMA, in addition, the European Commission controls the AMA in large numbers within the framework of the audit and the European Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Loacker: AMA...!]] They mention Court of Auditors reports: This has been done, and the AMA has also taken account of this Court of Auditors report and has implemented it. There has been a follow-up in which the Court of Auditors even says that there is now a very encouraging development, and an additional report from the Court of Auditors has come to say that, for example, when it comes to the positioning of quality seals, AMA is doing a great job. Now I'm going to deal with the crisis: The AMA, the Ministry – thank you, Elli Köstinger! – the peasantry, the chambers also try together, the agriculture that is heavily affected, namely the part of the agriculture that supplies to the hotel industry and gastronomy – beef, wine, vegetables – as well as the farming that is affected by the drought, and the timber industry that is affected by the crisis. We have jointly set up a hardening fund – the aid fund – so that agriculture gets something. We've been working to make harvesters come to bring in the harvest. We have two objectives: firstly, that agriculture also provides high-quality, safe Austrian food, regional food for people in the crisis, and secondly that affected farms receive support and endure the crisis well. That is what we are fighting for in the future. We are also committed to this in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e18393	The next speaker is Mrs Cornelia Ecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e18418	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! The present legislative proposal to the AMA Act is intended to allow the Board of Directors and the Control Committee of the Agricultural Market Austria to take decisions on the way to and from the video conference. This amendment is expected to enter into force by 31.12.2020. As SPÖ, we consider this to be very useful, but it is once again a collective law that mixes different materials, manipulates them and thus prevents a transparent parliamentary discussion. In my opinion, there are also some regulations which are partly very superfluous and which have not been harmonised with other legal provisions. We would therefore very much welcome a further discussion in the Committee. – Please let us review this again! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second item on the agenda for this debate contains a legislative proposal which we have already debated in the House. At that time, as today, we as SPÖ are facing this request very negatively. My previous speaker has already well-founded it. The FPÖ calls for the extension of the AMA Administrative Council in a legislative proposal. We regard this as a more bureaucracy, we do not see any improvement in it, therefore we will not agree to this request either. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Double farmer.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the Corona crisis has made one clear, that we can be very proud of our domestic farmers. They also manage to cover our tables and maintain the level of self-sufficiency in this difficult time. Even though I am saying: In the crisis there is a chance!, something difficult to do and not much of it, one thing is true: that the past weeks have shown a beautiful development in the agricultural field. The Austrians have increasingly bought regional products and have more and more visited the farmers around the corner and bought them there. I would like to thank you very much for this. However, this development, my dear colleagues – especially from the ÖVP – should not be a time appearance in the crisis, but it should be the start for our agriculture in Austria. There is a need for new opportunities, and there is a need for innovation and not all trade agreements with many countries in the world, but with our farmers. It needs a real designation of origin for our food – Made in Austria – and a CO2 tax for imported food. I also support the request made by my colleague in the European Parliament, Günther Sidl, that experts who bring regional direct marketing to a new stage should be re-established. We all have something of that, and we thus ensure the future of our rural area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e18472	The next speaker is Mrs Olga Vogluer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e18493	Spoštovana Visoka Hiša! Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dragi kolegi, wear kolegic! Ladies and gentlemen! What do we decide today? We decide that in Covid times, the agricultural market Austria will come to its decisions with a video conference or with decisions on circulation – with a Sunset clause. I think it makes sense in times like this. This week is a special week. At the end of this week, the remaining payments of agricultural subsidies will be transferred to the accounts of our farmers. This is important, therefore, because the money that our rural families and small farms need most urgently. Why do they need it? – Quite simply, because our agricultural producer prices have not developed as we wish, as they would ensure the existence of these agricultural structures. As we sit in here, our farmers experience day after day that they have to fight with too little rainfall and dryness. They spend at least as many hours of work daily as we do here at a normal plenary session and usually have a daily wage of about 40 euros, and that seven days a week. That's what I'm asking myself: Where is social balance? Where's the justice? It is precisely in these weeks that price negotiations are being held again. For example, vegetable cooperatives negotiate prices with the food retail trade. If we go shopping in the grocery store, we pay about 1.50 euros for a head salad. The farmer or the farmer remains 50 cents. If we buy 1 litre of milk, we pay an average of 1.20 euros, and the farms remain 38 to 55 cents. All of this does not secure family income from us in the country. Yes, Mrs Ecker, the social support we are now experiencing in agriculture, is enormous, and I very much hope that we will take this momentum with us so that farmers can continue to appreciate it. However: Appreciation alone will not allow them to pay their bills. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That is why we need a change in the system in the future so that agriculture does not become the next person to breathe. A system change can only be considered in an ecosystem, i.e. the path leads to biodiversity and to a natural and sustainable management in our fields, in our meadows, in our farms, which are holistically shaping the future. There can be no further exploitation of our agricultural holdings, but it also needs a good life in the direction of organic farming. The next step, Mr Schmiedlechner, is to ensure the existence of our small businesses clearly needs a further debate in this House. This should continue to concern us so that we can discuss sustainable agriculture with a lot of diversity. That's what I'm looking forward to. - Hvala lepa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e18545	Mr Nikolaus Scherak is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e18566	We are also discussing comprehensive changes to the administrative penalty procedure, and I believe it is therefore quite exciting to remember the conditions with which the citizens have been confronted by the bans and orders in recent weeks. We've heard that you can't go out of the house, and if, then only for four particular reasons. We've heard that if you do, you can only go out of the house briefly. We've heard you can't sit on a parking lot, we've heard you can't drink beer in public. People have heard that people from other households are not allowed to meet. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] People have heard that they can't walk with their partner. You've heard you're not allowed to visit anyone else at home. We have heard that in the supermarket you can only buy what is absolutely necessary. – These are all bans or instructions that have been communicated in recent weeks by the Federal Government or also by police officers, and I tell you something, dear Austrians: That's all wrong. These laws are simply not available. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] But every week the Federal Government tells us something new and – in reality – tells us about a new desire, and today it has added a new chapter: We received an e-mail from the head of the Federal Chancellor's cabinet in the morning – many well-known, a certain Mr. Bonelli – who sent a press release – surprisingly, I think, only to the opposition clubs – saying that it is also recommended in the private sector that you continue to comply with the rules. – You can make recommendations, that's nice. It also states: There will be no controls in the private sector for the time being. – Mrs. Federal Minister, are you serious about this? What laws does Mr Bonelli refer to? Are there any of these laws now? – I say something to you: This law does not exist. There is the indispensable house law from the state law, and you don't have the opportunity to control anything at home and see what I'm doing right now. [[Congratulation with NEOS and FPÖ.]] But if you plan to change the laws, I'll tell you that's a very bad idea. There is a good reason for us to have fundamental fundamental rights and freedoms in Austria and you cannot simply change these laws with your wishes, your hopes, your ideas. We live in a rule of law, and what you are doing now has very little to do with a rule of law. That's scary, and that's pure arbitrariness. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] If we, as NEOS, or also experts, warn about this and express constitutional concerns, then the Federal Chancellor says: Well, we may talk about “juristic pranks. ” – Federal Minister Anschober said today that he finds the debate about the meeting of people at home “bizarr”. Of course, what happens in the Constitutional Committee of the Austrian Parliament is also exciting. There was a request from the FPÖ last time, in which it was written: ‘All members of the government who have adopted regulations and decrees relating to the ‘Covid-19 crisis’ are invited to review and, where appropriate, amend them for their legal and constitutional conformity by you, Mrs Federal Minister, and by the Constitutional Service. – And what do ÖVP and Greens do? – You vote against it! It is ÖVP and Greens whether our laws are constitutional and the regulations are in conformity with the law. You don't care – you don't want the Constitutional Service to check it out. I then heard that he was allowed to do so, but you are against this request, because you do not mind how our fundamental rights of freedom have been trampled on in the last few weeks. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] Mrs. Rössler then did something special, she asked for understanding: She asked for understanding, because the employees in the Ministry of Health are in a special situation and now work especially much and that there can also be mistakes. I have an understanding – that is a special situation for all – but the understanding does not change yet, that any action must be in conformity with the law and that any law must be constitutional and that it is not about legal persuasions, but about our fundamental fundamental rights and freedoms. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] I find it particularly embarrassing that the Greens are voting against such requests. They were supposed to be a fundamental right party once. They are said to have been used once for the rule of law. Do you know what you are now? – You’re a Nice weather rights party, because in the crisis our fundamental and freedom rights are completely no matter what, and we hear every time: We can take a look at this after the crisis. – You have already done this with Hungary: Parliamentaryism in Hungary should be restored when the crisis is over. They tell us now that we should examine all the laws when the crisis is over. – As a fundamental right party, you have completely resigned. [[It was in favour of NEOS and SPÖ and FPÖ representatives.]] I also find the understanding so exciting – one should have understanding for the staff in the Ministry of Health. I would like to ask you who understands the citizens of Austria who have been punished in recent weeks: Who understands the minimum pensioner who had to pay 500 euros because he was on his way to the pharmacy? Who understands the mother who had to pay 500 euros because her children have come too close to other children? – I don't care if the Federal Chancellor tells me: Well, you can go to the Constitutional Court after the crisis. – These people will not object, nor will they go to the Constitutional Court because they are afraid because you scare them and constantly tell us anything that simply doesn't vote. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Prince.]] When, as NEOS, we then argued that at the Constitutional Court, we might need hasty proceedings, such as they already exist in Germany, so that we can quickly see whether such laws are constitutional, the Greens, but also the ÖVP, in turn, have explained to me: Well, we shouldn't be doing something right now. We look at this after the crisis. After the crisis, we can discuss how this is going to be done and whether the Constitutional Court can be quickly examined in the future. After the crisis, we can consider whether you have restricted our fundamental and freedom rights to the necessary extent; we should now understand that a few mistakes may happen. – It simply has nothing to do with a rule of law.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e18686	Now Mrs Federal Minister Karoline Edtstadler is speaking. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e18708	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! High house! Yes, the current crisis has presented us with very great challenges in many areas; and: Yes, especially in the crisis, the rule of law must function, especially in the crisis, the principles of the rule of law and democracy must be respected. That is exactly what the Austrian rule of law has shown, ladies and gentlemen, and has also shown the Austrian constitution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can start with you, Mr Scherak, because you should not confuse two things: It's not about fear, it's all about taking things seriously. Remember the beginning of the crisis! There were not a few who said: It's no worse than a flu. [[Abg. Martin Graf: And not the ÖVP?]] [[Abg. Meel-Risinger: You don't?]] What are you doing? Why should measures be put in place at all? – It was a matter of taking things seriously, and it was a matter of worrying people, of worrying about food, or of not getting to medical care. Thirdly, it was a matter of maintaining the health system. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we are today at a point where we see that this has succeeded. It has succeeded in keeping the health system functioning, it has succeeded in saving human lives, it has succeeded in leading people to see what situation we are dealing with, and people have also adhered to it: to the recommendations, to the requests of the Federal Government to comply with these requirements, to stay at home and to make only the most necessary courses. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Meinl-Reisinger and Scherak.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the reason why we need a decision again today is why we should decide on changes in the administrative procedure, why you should decide on this, is that we can now come back to a new normality piece by piece. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: New normality? That's the word of two weeks ago!]] [[Call at the FPÖ: Can we have a new ÖVP?- Oh, my God!]] Why do we need these changes? - Because we want to keep the management system functioning. If you might listen to me, I'd like to explain why. You yourself – and I would really like to thank you for that – have unanimously in an extrapartial shoulder closure with the 2nd. COVID-19-Law adopted measures, such as a time-limit for all administrative procedures, so that people are not prevented from making such complaints and taking part in procedures so that they can return to a minimum in order to prevent negotiations. All of this you have decided, and I would like to expressly thank you for it. These time limits end with 30.4., and we must try to ensure that the administrative procedures can actually be conducted now, so that there is no set-aside, because, as has been said, these deadlines start to run again from 1.5. and the time-limits for the administrative decision-making deadlines also end with that date. That means: What do we want to achieve with these administrative changes that you are now making? . We want it to be possible for the Authority to decide, in compliance with all the standards laid down in the European Convention on Human Rights, whether a negotiation is to be conducted or not, under certain conditions, with conditions such as wearing a mouth-nose protection, for example, with the distance. A word on the amendment – because, to be honest, I was a little surprised whether the criticism expressed by the SPÖ was: I can only say that last week I felt that we had a highly constructive Constitutional Committee meeting, a very high-level debate with the head of the Constitutional Service. We have taken not only the suggestions on the part of the FPÖ, but also those of NEOS, taken them seriously and written them into an amendment request; for example, the fact that session police can also be used equivalently to designate someone, to wear oral nose protection or to hold a distance, otherwise also to refer him to the trial. These are things that are new in a procedure. We have included them, they are based on today's amendment. We also have the form of the video conferences for the negotiations in the amendment of § 3. Why? – So that negotiations can also be conducted in the form of the video conference. Of course, we now have to try to get everything up to the level of 21. In the 19th century, the digital and technical means are actually enshrined in the Rules of Procedure. Especially in times of crisis, in times of great challenges, given the risk of infection with Covid-19, this is very important. It should be at the discretion of the Authority to decide whether a negotiation, a local suction permit, a local eye-catching certificate is to be carried out or held in the form of video conferences. But again: What is the meaning and purpose of these changes? – The administrative procedure should be able to be conducted, and the procedures should not be reversed. The other amendments proposed have already been mentioned, for example, a very substantial change in the delivery law, that even after the expiry of this period of interruption on 30.4., a delivery of RSa and RSb letters is possible, without the need to make direct contact with the people who make it available to the post. Thirdly, For example, it also includes – which has not yet been mentioned – a extension of the deadline for the final audits of the integration agreements in cases where these examinations cannot now be removed. This is something that, I think, informs everyone that there should be no disadvantage here during the time of the crisis. We have discussed all of this in detail in the Constitutional Committee, and yes, as Minister responsible for the Constitution, I tell you that I think it is very essential to involve the Constitutional Service. In that case, he was not only involved, he was also legally active. I know, ladies and gentlemen, that They give the Constitutional Service a great deal of confidence. That's why the criticism all the more surprised me. In this sense, I would ask you to have a broad consent to this package. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e18804	Mrs Faika El-Nagashi has now been mentioned. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e18826	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers and Seers! We are changing the integration law today, and that is important and right. It is about extending the time limit for carrying out examinations which are not currently taking place. But it is also important and a good opportunity to talk about integration, recognition, cohesion and how we are connected. It is about the people who often experience horror, whose multilingualism is problematic, whose religion is stigmatized, whose skin color and origin make them the target of racist politics and medial hetze, whose basis of life is once shortened, treated differently from populism, nationalism, racism. [[Abg. Kickl: Who are you talking about?]] We now see in the midst of this pandemic, with its far-reaching effects, how many migrants worldwide and in Austria bear the burden of the crisis: under poor living conditions and exploitable working conditions, under great danger and with great use in harvesting the harvest in another country, cleaning and cleaning the Turkish left and meeting rooms, caring for family members of others. Health systems depend on migrants, in particular on women, but also on agriculture, rental, gastronomy, building cleaning, trade, construction. We see how the freedom of movement of migrants can be managed more flexibly when the political will is there, and how high is the effort that is being used for it. For these people, nothing was normal before, and the old normal was not good. We now have the opportunity to set the foundations for a new, truly equal society with a New Deal, a Green Deal, a Caredeal and, above all, a solidarity deal. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] All must be involved in the redesign of the world of life and work during and after this crisis: Women, migrants, people with disabilities, people in need of care and their families, care workers and also sex workers – mostly women, mostly migrants; only officially registered are 7,000 people in Austria, and there is an even higher number of darkers. Before that, hardly anyone has talked about the rights of sex workers, and it must not be that we do not talk about them after that and in the meantime. We do not need a new standard, we need a living solidarity, recognition, cohesion, a new perspective on each other and on what unites us. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This crisis as well as the climate crisis, we only deal with together and with all those who are here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e18874	Next speaker: Mr Christian Drobits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e18896	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have been asked several times over the last few days whether the fundamental and freedom rights in Austria are literally on the force and whether there is a democratic deficit. My answer is: The rule of law does not work well in times of the corona crisis, it suffers. In some areas, when it comes to the epidemic law, he even fries. Why?, I was asked. – Because the Federal Government is peging through the Covid-19 laws with proposals for initiative, without carrying out reviews. Assessments by the Constitutional Service, by the Data Protection Council, when it comes to data protection, audits by the Court of Auditors and by representatives of interests, all these assessments, which are intended to ensure that the laws are both serious and quality-based, do not take place. The Federal Government believes that this is a luxury. My opinion on this is: Assessments are required. This is also the reason why – Mr Kickl is sitting in front of me – the standard testing procedures relating to regulations and decrees will also be necessary in order to ensure that the quality can be checked in the future, whether these regulations and decrees are also equivalent to coverage. Well, today we have the 12. Covid-19 Act. It ranks behind the eleven previous Covid laws and before those who will follow; in turn, an initiative proposal, in turn, no review. Our Committee opinion was rejected. It is true, Mrs Bundesminister, that you have made clarifications in the amendment, but the essential thing is missing: There is still a government arbitrariness. The Authority shall decide, at its own discretion, which parties and parties involved in this procedure shall, in concrete terms, involve them in this procedure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker.]] That hasn't changed. The subjective right of the parties is only that, if they have a technical institution, they may be involved through the technical institution, otherwise there is nothing else. The video conference was also cited in law not as an exception, but as a rule case. I therefore say: Without these review procedures, this law is still unconstitutional, and I stand for that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In principle, I say: The rule of law, as you have said, does not work in this crisis. In my opinion, the rule of law is also affected in the specific case by the fact that the rights of freedom and fundamental rights are covered under a spell and do not come about in the final effect. [[Abg. Gerstl: Please, don't believe that!]] That's why: Out and forth, out with staging, out with fright and out with these swift laws! Rather, make quick laws and quick procedures when it comes to control by the Constitutional Court! That is why, as I have already said in the Constitutional Committee, I am saying: We will make a referral request to the Constitutional Committee in the final effect, so that we can be assessed by qualified bodies in a serious, but also qualified manner. Since today is the day of superheroes and superheroes, I would like to address you: Be the superheroes today – as many system holders do at this time – and agree to this request! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e18944	Mrs Karin Doppelbauer has now been reported to the House. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e18966	Madam President. High house! I am referring to the request concerning AMA. In principle, quite seriously, I can, of course, gain something from the concern that more control is brought into the AMA Board of Directors. Of course, we can say that there is the right to interact and the Court of Auditors is also reviewing. – Yes, but of course we have a culture of the backrooms at the AMA. Above all SPÖ and ÖVP sit inside, put the heads together; Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Agriculture, Chamber of Labour: It is almost possible to speak of the usual suspects sitting in this board of directors and making up their interests or representing their interests. Now, of course, in times of the Corona crisis, we are also faced with the fact that the AMA is now also handling the aid for the farmers, so this is about more tax money again. That is to say, the AMA really moves a lot of tax money, and it not only moves tax money, but also a lot of member contributions, and of course the taxpayers have a right to transparency. Now you're saying, In connection with funds that are spent there – this is a lot of tax money – and of course also in connection with membership contributions, one has to say in the past – and that is why I understand that one wants more control – really has no fame. It's just that gold plating in the bureaucracy at the farmers a The fact is that the EU Agriculture Commissioner Wojciechowski also says that, in the face of the Fiascos with the AMA marketing with the Kulinary network – 1.7 million euros for a strategy concept that has never been implemented, we have already planned 10.5 million to 2022 – it is also necessary to meet the demand. Again: We also want control, but we cannot accept this request because we do not want to have any more policies in these areas. We want less policy, we do not want to inflate a board of directors, we want a real reform of the AMA, especially the AMA marketing. It should be efficient, it should be transparent and, above all, professional. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e19005	Mrs Beate Meinl-Reisinger spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e19026	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary, Minister, I am sorry! - Chief State Advocate! [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ]] [[Abg. Kickl: Chief Prosecutor!]] [[Cheerfulness of the speaker.]] I have now reported myself to speak again to replicate what you have said. I would like to summarize what my colleague Nikolaus Scherak has said, which we very much consider to be a problem. I would like to say something that I have already said: Absorbed You don't criticise with skepticism! It is not a question of fundamentally questioning that one has tried to reduce the dynamics of the spread of the virus. Please don't confuse that! Exaggeration Please don't polarize! It is about the fact that the head of the Federal Chancellor's cabinet has today sent out an e-mail in which he puts into the room that there may also be controls in the private sector in the near future; for now, there are no controls. There is neither a legal basis nor a fundamental right, on the ground of freedom, the possibility of doing so at all, but he does. Perhaps it is just another legal blunder that, as we find, is simply not worthy of a chieftain of a German chancellor. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and SPÖ and FPÖ representatives.]] This fits in the series that we learned the week from the internal strategy papers that it was a strategy to scare the population. We said last week: “If you don’t know anything, you have to believe everything.” They are not transparent and present calculation models or model calculations, no, you'd rather be afraid that the citizens will be punished for the police coming if they don't comply with the measures. But with this, you have an image of people and citizens in this country as subjects, as a people who keep you small and consciously uninformed, in which you start fears rather than assume free, self-confident and self-determined citizens who, because of transparent information, naturally adhere to these rules, because it is good to stick to them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker]] Transparency and open communication instead of fear policy, this would now be the way to confidence and also out of this crisis. Now you have said that these were just recommendations and requests. Now I am completely confused, because in recent weeks reports of people who have been stopped on the streets by police officers have been asked what they are doing, where they are going, because there are only three or four or five or seven reasons to leave the house. I'm confused. Does the police know that these were requests and recommendations? Does that happen to the police who have spent 500 euros on a parking lot? – Was only a joke, hahaha, was only a recommendation and a request from the Federal Government, but we do not take it exactly with the laws and the constitution, these are legal pranks! [[Intrusions of the Abg. Kickl.]] Last week I received a subscription from a mother – and believe me, there are some inscriptions that report something similar, but that was particularly plastic – that wrote to me that her son, a single child, weeps when she or her husband leaves the house because he is afraid that the parents will be arrested by the police; and in the night he now dreams of a cobra with which the father has to struggle. – I don't think you have to ask Freud what that means. This is the result of the fear policy that you are making, and that is not worthy of a rule of law and of a powerful free citizen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e19094	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. The vote on this item will take place at the end of the next item on the agenda, TOP 19. [[17:29:41]] 19. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 476/A(E) by Mrs Herbert Kickl, Members of Parliament on freedom of expression rather than a sluggish censorship (138 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e19130	This brings us to Agenda item 19. There has been no oral reporting. You are speaking, Mrs Susanne Prince. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e19158	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! 75 years Second Republic we celebrated these days, and precisely the people who built Austria over the last decades to this free, wealthy, secure Austria with social security and with an excellent health system needed our help, because there has been an unknown virus. Apparently, it threatened the elderly people and the squirrels above all. We were all ready to take on massive restrictions of our freedom and many disadvantages in order to gain time and knowledge in a short period of uncertainty, inaccuracy, in order to protect the older generation. We were also ready to do so because this older generation entrusted us with an Austria with particularly strong fundamental and freedom rights for citizens. They have established a democratic system and a society based on powerful, self-responsible citizens. In recent decades, these citizens have had the natural right to express their views, and they have had the right to teach, to research freely at universities in every direction, without any reference to the outcome, and to draw up new knowledge and knowledge. This free research has led to unexpected healing opportunities and advances especially in medicine in many serious diseases. Many professors of the Medical University of Vienna were also involved in these high performances, and it is a shame, a real shame that we commit these 75-year celebrations if there is a massively limited freedom of expression and science. It is not the older ones we have protected who are responsible for it, but it is the younger generation that is currently sitting in the Federal Government. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the course of the Corona debate, statements by many physicians with differentiated opinions were still approved until about the end of February of this year; they were allowed to give their opinions on the corona virus in interviews. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] However, the diversity of opinions was systematically reduced from the beginning of March until the final decision of the Ideas of March not only the economic and social shutdown, but also the lockdown for freedom of expression and freedom of science. [[Call:Go]] What was suddenly not allowed to say? – In no case a comparison between coronavirus and influenza, very stupid! In no way was it possible to doubt the alleged exponential and thus explosive growth, the spread of the virus and the danger of the virus, or to say that this can simply not be answered with the existing data. It was also no longer allowed to say that it is perhaps not best to look at the number of corona deaths, but that one may have to think of the victims of the lockdown and that there may be a balance in which we have more dead. In any case, school closures were not to be called into question. There are many physicians who believe that children not only do not suffer from the corona virus, but that they are not carriers at all and therefore cannot infect their parents and grandparents. Many physicians responded to all these facts or questions. I am now referring to the head of general medicine at the Medical University of Vienna, who has referred to all these questions several times and very profoundly and objectively, and from the beginning of April to the first. April, has spoken. He also explained this in an interview with a daily newspaper. April wrote a letter, he appeared in a talk in our widely appreciated, pay-financed favorite medium and has everywhere politely and by no means disrespectfully shown to the Federal Government in respect of really material and profoundly and scientifically pointing out that one is going too far. I am not concerned now that the Federal Government has not followed this view. She has followed other opinions, she knows better; she must also represent the chaos she has created. It is about the fact that, on the occasion of these 75-year-republic celebrations, we obviously have a social climate in which the Medical University of Vienna sees itself as an incentive to distance itself publicly from the technical statements of its university professor and department head. [[Abg. Kickl: I believe that!]] She wrote publicly that this was only a private opinion of the professor and she had nothing to do with it. This is a new normality that is repulsive, that is spiritual narrowness. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is not a debate culture, and we reject it. A university whose task is to represent and enforce the government line is a sad highlight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e19226	Mrs Eva-Maria Himmelbauer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e19248	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I'd like to start like this: In recent weeks, I have personally seen a great deal of understanding of the measures taken and also a great deal of support in dealing with the Corona crisis. [[call to the FPÖ.]] In a wave of willingness to help, which came from the neighborhood by companies, from associations, the population was in use – and still is – to help others. This fills me personally with pride and also shows me that we hold together in difficult times. For this purpose, I would like to thank everyone, especially the wine-fourtlers in my home country, very much. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] At the same time, I am going to experience – and this will not be different for all of you – that there is also a lot of uncertainty, concern about the health and health of family members and friends, fears about the existence, the workplace and the company. These concerns and fears are further shaken by many speculations, conspiracy theories and numerous misinformations, and they have indeed not been lacking in the last few weeks. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] It has been colported that 5G is responsible for or causes the corona virus. We all shook the head when one said to inject disinfectants. I also read that soap drinking would help – which is an insanity and, above all, dangerous to health! There are inconceivable conspiracy theories in which even individual EU countries are accused of performing euthanasia in old people who are suffering from corona. [[Abg. Martin Graf: Where do you even read this?]] That's all dangerous and it's insecure. But it is also clear that not all of it is punishable, but that it is also protected by freedom of expression. Regardless of whether we like it or not, it is necessary to protect this freedom of expression. It needs an exchange of views, and even in times of Corona it is no different. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] We experience this today and we have also received it in the last days and weeks in the media, online or analog. A change of opinion is also permitted. The FPÖ took place on 13.3. – you can also read this online – another lockdown is required, yes, massive measures. [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, eh! You've slept there!]] Yes, we have implemented measures gradually. [[Abg. Kickl: The right thing at the right time, that's art!]] Today you stand there and want to open everything. In my opinion and in the opinion of many experts, this would be a wrong step because it would, in turn, endanger the control of the corona virus. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: You wear today the masks of which... said that...!]] The FPÖ's request, which we are discussing here, now means that this freedom of expression must be further protected, especially on the Internet. [[Abg. Havenecker: Yes, before you!]] The starting position is a posting or are several postings of a FPÖ mandatar. For why these have been deleted, there can be many reasons. Without knowing the said postings decided – even in the application itself only the headings have been mentioned – I say: Freedom of expression, of course, ends when it becomes punishable and when it is vilified when perhaps violence is called. It must also be clear to anyone who logs in to a social network that there are, in addition to criminally relevant offences, also use agreements that are accepted when joining. The proposal now before us provides for intervention, which would also be a massive intervention in the freedom of contract. This is also a reason for us not to accept this request. Some of the proposals in this proposal do not necessarily make sense, for example, that deleted contributions should be re-published in anonymized form. My opinion: If there has been a good reason to delete it, then they should also remain deleted. [[Abg. Kickl: (delighted) And that's what the police students decide! Delicious!]] But if I want to look for something binding in the application, I suggest that it is quite desirable for us to have a transparent deletion process that is comprehensible to users how these processes work. Not only can contributions be reported and subsequently deleted, but, vice versa, there are good appeals procedures to object to and act against them. As far as the proposal as a whole is concerned, however, it must be rejected by us.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e19404	Next speaker: Mr Christian Hafenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e19425	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! “In a crisis such as the Corona Pandemic, freedom of the press is essential [...]. In view of the dramatic developments in the world, people must be able to learn from a wide range of sources and also to critically question the action of the authorities. Too many governments react to the corona crisis with authoritarian reflexes such as censorship, surveillance, repression and disinformation. Those who now limit independent reporting not only increase uncertainty, but also put people at very real risk.” – My dear friends Ladies and gentlemen, this statement is not by me, but by the managing director of Reporter ohne Grenzen Germany, by Mr Mihr. The question is: How to deal with the situation in Austria? That's what we're in the middle of. What about freedom of expression in Austria? What does it look like if Mrs Edtstadler, who is here, says quite loosely from the stool in the committee that the Fakenevs are now urgently turning around, that we have to do something about it? What does it look like when Mrs Federal Minister Raab launches an information campaign against Fakenews? Who actually defines what Fakenevs are in this country? I would like to ask you a question: If the government was told that it was only possible to trust official bodies if we talked about the subject, then I would have liked to know how this protocol history of German Chancellors would have ever come to the public, whether the Federal Government had ever said: Yes, we have records from the Council of Ministers meeting saying it's about making people afraid. – All of this would not have come to the public, and I am glad that there are at least there and there journalists who trust to report accordingly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Bundesminister, I can tell you what Fakenevs are: This is what your colleague Nehammer is doing when he is officially concealing attacks from immigrants on Austrians by the Ministry of the Interior, as shown by an answer to a question that has been sent to me today. There has been covert, there have been Fakenev's spread. However, the Internet platform “Uncensored” has revealed it, and my answer received today has also confirmed this. The Minister has admitted that he has provided false information. Ladies and gentlemen! What happens to people who are not consistent with the message control of the ÖVP? – They are being pushed down first and foremost, just as in the back there the crackers of the Greens do, they are assigned the professional qualification, yes, and sometimes there or because the existence is threatened if I think only of one doctor or another who has been threatened with being denied approval. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, that's the truth, that's the reality, if you trust yourself in Austria today to deal critically with what you're supposed to get from the government. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, the whole thing is accompanied by the same media, which unfortunately God has recently bought very strongly from the Federal Government. Under the protective cover or claim that one wants to stretch a corona shield over the media as well, one has done nothing more than engage in the boulevard in a short manner. So we have these media, which are now reporting accordingly, with advertisements on the part of the government. From this you can derive a formula that I would describe in this way: The more media you choose, the more a medium jumps on the train, the more people are afraid that they or their loved ones may die relatively soon, the more you have bought exactly these media. You use it as a carrier for your policy. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I really want more courage from the journalists. It is already true that some journalist still dares to say the truth, and I really hope that the day yesterday, which has shown for the first time that not everything can be so on course as you always want us to know, will also find its continuation that we are actually dealing with where you have presented us an X for a U, where you have deliberately lied to the people, where you have misinformed them and where you have really, very specifically, shown a course that is not worthy of a government and which, above all, the people here in this country have not deserved. [[Abg.: (in the direction of President Bures) Lie...?- Oh, my God!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I wish, as I said, that yesterday was the first day on which the work of the ÖVP-willkür started and normality was created, above all, when we recovered what the ÖVP had taken, but which should be the most important thing for us: freedom of expression and civil rights. We need to restore them quickly! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this should also be our claim here in the House. With Klubobmann Kickl, we therefore offer a platform for the platform coronaswissin.at, to fulfill this very purpose, to show exactly where the ÖVP represents an X for a U, where the ÖVP uses the virus to drive a country against the wall and to infiltrate what remains of it at the end of the day. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we do not want to do so, and I would like to conclude by saying that this Republic did not become 75 years old yesterday. It's up to us to stop the opposition to that madness.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e19485	Next speaker: Mrs Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e19506	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I think now the deep dilemma of the FPÖ becomes so visible. From my point of view, there is no other party that would be more credible in its criticism of intervention into fundamental rights, but also in the policy of fear. But the row after: The equal access and peaceful exchange of views, as we all know, in the virtual space, wide distances of echo chambers and filter bubbles are broken down because algorithms determine which content is displayed to. What You now make this request here is to make a dangerous equation of simple users and professional journalists. They put the credibility of opinions published on the Internet and the work of quality media at one level, as if it were not the criterion of objectivity at all. You're not supposed to throw stones. What the FPÖ is doing is becoming quite visible by looking at its media or media with which it is linked. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] In the case of “Uncensored”, “Weekblick”, “Currently” and “Info-direct”, it is recognized that it is not a balanced report, but the hard implementation of a right-wing populist agenda. These channels do not even try to be objective. They write hetze articles and poorly researched articles, not rarely with anti-Semitic content, and you might almost already think, Fakenevs are the business model of the mentioned media. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Nor do you leave an opportunity to ignore the principles of liberal democracy – I remind you of the criticism of the human rights convention – and now you want to establish yourself here as advocates of freedom of expression and press. This is a bad joke from my point of view. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I would like to remind you of a few examples, such as the handling of the Minister of the Interior other than Kickl with “Standard”, “Kurier” and “Falter” – newspapers that you wanted to prove with an information press at the time – the resolution of the press office of the Federal Criminal Office or the centralization of the police’s public relations. [[Abg. Kickl: I want to buy them!]] [[Abg. Kickl: I want to buy them, exactly!]] The former Member of Parliament, Mr Jenewein, will hopefully remember how he wanted to replace the editor of the “Report” at the time because he asked too critical questions. [[Abg. Kickl: And you keep the government experts out!]] But I have a positive outlook for you today: The FPÖ – if it is a serious concern to you – could benefit the European people by using its good wire to Putin and by ensuring that the Troll factories cease to flood the European Union with false news and disinformation. The Commissioner for External Affairs, Mr Borrell, is currently warning of this. You will know that it is documented that Russian media are making an intense mood against the European Union, especially in the Coronavirus crisis. In the past week alone, 45 cases of false news have been documented. The most successful was a contribution by the Russian station “Russia Today” – I remember that is the transmitter, the stretch after the Ibiza affair as First, an interview – which falsely claimed that the EU did not help its partners in the fight against the corona virus, but it was only China and Russia. Over the past two months, the European External Action Service has registered 152 cases of disinformation related to the coronavirus, which it assigns to the sources close to the Kremlin. We know that the aim of this information war is nothing but the principle: divide et impera! There's a fakenews foreign policy. If you take seriously what you have written in the request, you might consider today to terminate the cooperation agreement with the Putin Party. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In any case, there are many reasons why Fakenews are dangerous: Fakeevs can influence personal opinion, strengthen fears, or contribute to prejudices against certain groups of people. [[Mr Amesbauer, Mr Belakovich, Mr Loacker and Mr Scherak]] You can start hate and lead to het campaigns. They endanger democracy, and they can help to damage political opponents in the run-up to elections, such as the spread of falsehoods. So if it is true that you reject all that I have listed, then please follow it in practice and move forward with a positive example! Thank you. [[Abg. Deimek: Can you do that from NEOS too..., or are they too weak for it?]] [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] [[17:53]] [[17:53:32]] Vote on agenda items 17 to 19
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e19623	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? – That's not the case. Before I come to the votes moved, I would like to ask the presidents of the club whether a part-session is welcome. - That's not the case. We shall now come to the vote moved on the reports of the Constitutional Committee, which I shall make separately on each item on the agenda. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Drobits, colleagues, on TOP 17, on Amendment 437/A, 12. COVID-19 Act to refer back to the Constitutional Committee. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who give this referral the consent to a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on agenda item 17: Draft concerning 12. COVID-19 Act in 136 of the Supplements. Mr Hiezu has tabled an additional or amendment tabled by Mr Gerstl, Mr Prammer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. Mr Gerstl, Mr Prammer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an amendment on the title and on Articles 1 to 4. If you agree to these amendments, I would ask for a sign on this point. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I also ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall therefore come to the third reading. Whoever gives the consent in third reading, I ask for a positive sign. – The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 18. Proposal from the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 137 of the supplements. If anyone speaks for this knowledge, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on agenda item 19: Proposal from the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 138 of the supplements. Who is expressing his support for this note? – This is the majority, accepted. [[17:57:06]] 20. Point Report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment 440/A by Mr Gabriel Obernosterer, Mag. Dr. Jakob Schwarz, BA, colleagues regarding a federal law that amends the Income Tax Act 1988, the German Tax Code 1994, the Federal Tax Code, the Balance of Payments Stabilisation Act, the Federal Act on the Establishment of a COVID-19 School Event Disposal Act (COVID-19 Schoolstorno Fund Act), the Federal Act on the Establishment of a Degradation Stock Corporation of the Bundes (ABBAG Act) and the Federal Act granting an authorisation on federal assets, as well as the Federal Law on the Examination of Funding of the Federal Government under the COVID-19 Pandemic (COVID-19 Funding Audit Act – CFPG) (18. COVID-19 Act (143 d.b.) 21. Point Report by the Budget Committee on the request 441/A by Mr Peter Haubner, Dr. Elisabeth Götze, colleagues on a federal law amending the business loyalty law 2017, the Accounting Act 2014 and the Civil Engineering Act 2019 (11. COVID-19 Act) (144 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e19758	We therefore come to the points 20 and 21 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I welcome Mr Blümel to the House. I give the floor to Mr Kai Jan Krainera's first speaker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e19796	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There is again a collective law relating to fiscal measures; Mr Vogl will address this more precisely by the Social Democrats. I would particularly like to talk about what is not contained in the law. Those requests made by the opposition parties were simply postponed more or less without discussion, so that the public may not even know what proposals the opposition had made and what it called for, how we are really meeting the Corona crisis here. There is only a very small extract from the proposals that have been made. The first proposal concerns the question of business rentals. We know that there is a so-called ban on the entry of a customer regarding a number of business venues, tens of thousands in Austria. – The Minister of Justice said: This is a very clear case, there is no rent to pay! We think that's right, too. We said at the time: Then let's write this into the law, so it's stone and clear for all: There is no rent to pay where there is a ban on entry! What do we have in practice? What did we get on? – The Republic of Austria has its own business premises, which it rents, for example to a yoga studio. There's a ban on entry, nobody's allowed to enter. The Minister of Justice would say: Sure, no rent due! What does the Republic of Austria do? – It requires rent and offers only one hour. Only because of our intervention in this one case does it now say that it is considering whether it may not demand the entire rent. We need legal clarification that businesses that are more or less closed by a non-commitment ban do not have to pay rents. Unfortunately, however, it is the case that, in particular, the ÖVP is opposed to the fact that there is a clear legal regime, because obviously the interests of the owners are more important than the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises and the EPUs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The completely absurd thing is that the Minister of Finance is then obviously still ready to pay up to 75 percent of tax money from an illegal rental. No, I don't want tax money to pay for an illegal rent. I don't want an EPU, a small and medium-sized company to pay for an illegal rent, but I don't think illegal rents should be paid! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Then we also had the public discussion about the dividend ban, i.e. when a company says: I can't pay my taxes! Well, then you can't pay a dividend, then you can't give your owners money! – If you don't have the money to pay taxes, you can't have the money to pay a dividend to owners. Who goes to the state and says: I can't pay my employees' wages, please help me with short work!, he can't pour out dividends, because whoever has too little money to pay the wages, he can't pay dividends either. On the part of the government it said: Let's go! – We have now seen exactly what you have done: Who doesn't have the money to pay the taxes – every: He's allowed to pour out dividends. Who does not have the money to pay the wages – no matter what: He's still allowed to pay out dividends. Only then, if someone takes advantage of the liability from the Cofag, then he is not allowed to pay a dividend – for a limited period of time, I think, nine months. – This is not a clean solution! If someone doesn't have the money to pay his taxes, then he can't pour out dividends either – but put that You don't care! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The same applies to the issue of the Boni – Managerboni, Managing Director Boni –: We are of the opinion that: A managing director who can be saved from the state does not need to cash a bonus! – You said yes to that first. What's in the guidelines? – Half the bonus these managing directors get anyway! – The taxpayer saves the company, charges him the tax, grants him a grant, takes over the liability, finances the short work – and the managing director gets half the bonus. There's the question: “Where was the performance?” – therefore no bonuses with state aid! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There are a number of points on which the opposition requests will be kept out of the plenary session – that is a kind of censorship of the majority, also a political censorship that we cannot debate and vote on these requests here. We have already challenged this in the committees and said that this must end and that the opposition proposals have the right to be discussed here in plenary. I hope that will work that way the next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e19875	Next speaker: Mr Gabriel Obernosterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e19899	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the TV screens! Agenda item 20: a report by the Committee on Budgets, which focuses on three points. At the time of Corona, it is about the fact that no VAT is charged for masks; it is about the fact that the federal government's funding can be legally examined by the federal government and that, in the event of school events, parents cannot be taken into account, but that this is handled through the ministry. As Mr Krainer of the SPÖ has just talked about this funding package, I would also like to say something about it: I am constantly in contact with South Tyrol and inform myself of what is going on there, what is going on there for the medium-sized economy, for small businesses, for tourism on promotions, I inform myself of what is going on in Switzerland, what is going on in Bavaria, what is going on in Germany, and I always hear the same thing: We would be glad if we were given a reception package by the government, as you have already decided in Austria! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] 38 billion euros have been unanimously agreed here in the first and second package, and I say this – at the time we all knew about this task; I doubt that this is still the case today – and these 38 billion euros are, in terms of GDP, exemplary internationally. I don't know any other state that takes so much money into its hands in order to get through this crisis half-timbered! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Kassinger: He's the state!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I do not want to go further into today's discussion, which is being conducted across the bank and generally by the opposition, but I also lack time, but the listener at home in front of the television screen will take a picture. It's not long ago, it was the 15. March, on which we have bound the first package within two days, Ministers have given the first empowerment – within two days also by the Federal Council. At the time, we all were aware of the seriousness of what is happening to us in Austria. Not quite a week later, we tied up the second package, also again with the necessary powers of action for the ministers – even this has been carried out in two days. I would also like to thank all the parties today for their participation, and it has shown itself: Just as it is necessary in a family that, when a crisis comes, it comes together so that it can survive well, this is also necessary for the National Council and Government. This was demonstrated by the National Council and the Government, and there were only unanimous decisions at that time. We all saw TV, we know what was happening internationally, at the doorstep, in Italy et cetera. And those who have read media, also foreign media, and have seen the television reports, know: Austria has been a pioneer in the actions, with its actions to get hold of this crisis as soon as possible – others have imitated it – and thank God the crisis has not affected us as much as other countries have. Our Federal Minister for Health has already shown it to us today: The number of deaths in parts of Europe to the tenfold of those in Austria was estimated at 100 000. Let me show you this again here is Austria. [[Keeping an expression in height with a column diagram]] [[pointing to a pillar]] Let's be happy that we succeeded! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Due to this constructive and good work of our Federal Government – with our Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz and Vice-Cancellor Kogler at the top – it is now also possible to re-run measures and facilitate reliefs from which other countries are still far away. It was hard, it was hard for the families, for the children hard, for the older people, for the old people hard. It wasn't easy, we had a situation like we didn't know it since the post-war period. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] If I hear today what the individual opposition parties of the government are accusing, I have to say: The listener or spectator at home in front of the TV screen or via live stream takes his own picture! [[Call the SPÖ:Yes!]] I'd like to tell you one thing: It is no different today, this crisis has not yet been overcome. Our government has made the most necessary effort to dispel this in terms of health and economic support. If we want to dive there until we get a vaccine, and so that we don't get a second wave – God protects us from this second wave; you of the opposition parties do here today as if there were no such thing –: Let's listen to the experts! Everyone says this crisis has been halted, but it has not yet been fought. Before there's a vaccine, we won't get rid of it. The Austrians trust in this government. I'm proud to belong to this government. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e20002	Next speaker: Mr Hubert Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e20024	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Finance! [[The speaker puts a panel on the speaker’s desk, which is read in red writing “Austria 1000er ” and pictures ten hundred euro notes.]] I am referring to the COVID-19 Funding Act. The COVID-19 Funding Audit Act provides that for the examination of the Covid-19 grants – it is hardly believed – the Financial Offices are responsible, i.e. the Authority, the Government Parties, from the resolution of the aid measures to date. (i) have been excluded; (ii) have been excluded; Mr Kopf, also Secretary-General of the Chamber of Commerce, said in the “ZIB 2” interview on 20 April 2020 that it was the argument of the Ministry of Finance that the financial offices could not have dealt with these grants – the Minister of Finance has demented God’s thanks to the Budget Committee – yet the financial offices are now being entrusted with the examination. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] Isn't that strange? As the government parties imagine the audit activities of the financial offices, there is no longer a danger of overcoming them. Errors of the Economic Chamber and the Agricultural Market Austria must not itself correct the financial offices, because the financial offices are merely an expert in the examination. The financial offices are only allowed to send a report to the Chamber of Commerce and the AMA, and the Chamber of Commerce and the AMA decide for themselves how to deal with the errors found. – I guess it's no longer a freaker's business. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Chamber of Commerce decides for itself what consequences it draws from its own mistakes. It must not be forgotten that the Chamber of Commerce is the legal representation of entrepreneurs. I am already excited how objectively the Chamber of Commerce will act at the end of the day. No one has asked the government parties whether such a construction is at all compatible. Therefore, a parliamentary Covid-19 subcommittee, which is equipped with the appropriate control rights, also needs to be set up. It cannot be that the Chamber of Commerce and the entrepreneurs control themselves at the end of the day. With this peculiar legal understanding of the governmental parties, they will probably still decide that the financial offices will only be more experts when carrying out operational audits and that the Chamber of Commerce will decide, at the end of the day, whether entrepreneurs will have to pay taxes at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kirchbaumer]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is probably the new normality that this federal government is always dreaming of. § 15 of this Federal Act provides that the Minister of Finance must publish an annual report on the BMF homepage of the examinations carried out by 30.6. of the following year. Government parties do not think that the National Council should be involved at all. That is another reason why we need a Covid-19 subcommittee, in which these annual reports must be discussed at the end of the day. It is about the Austrian tax money, and there has never been transparency and control damaged. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I should also like to refer to a motion for a resolution, namely the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Klubobmann Kickl, Mr Fuchs and others, on 'Real aid for Austria'. He has already been brought in and hopefully will be distributed directly or soon in plenary. The measures taken by the Federal Government in the course of the Corona crisis have led to a historic economic crisis. More than 1.7 million people have lost their jobs or are in short work. Tens of thousands of economic operators have also lost their income base. This motion for a resolution contains measures, some of which I would like to list: ‘- Full entitlement to compensation for all establishments affected by the prohibition of entry, in the amount which they would have received if their operation had been closed on the basis of the Epidemic Act [...] - processing of all measures relating to the financial services [...] – fine-tuning and non-sensory support of up to 12 credit rates’ and leasing rates ‘– non-formular, over-bridge credit to cover liquidity gaps - Implementation of a ‘Communual Investment and Regional Economic Package’ [...] - Tax reliefs for tourism and gastro-businesses [...] - issue of ‘Austria vouchers’ – the Austrian thousand; Klubobmann Kickl has already submitted an application to this effect – “for every Austrian citizen.” Thank you very much. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[18:16]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e20321	Mr President, you have now tabled the motion for a resolution, and you have explained it in the broad guidelines, so he is also negotiating. The next speaker is Mrs Elisabeth Götze. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e20345	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Dear High House! Dear listeners at home in front of the screens! I take the opposition by saying that in politics it is objectionable to spread fear, and I insist on fact-based politics. However, today in the current hour the entrepreneurs were quite scared. I have heard – I quote – that companies are being overthrown by government measures. [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] – Ladies and gentlemen, you don’t play with fear! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Cheerfulness and continuing calls at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Yes, it is true, in Austria, it has been done quickly; we have heard it from my previous speaker. One of my former boss said, decisions must be quick and wrong. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light snow]] I guess it's a little bit overpainted, but yes: If you act quickly, you cannot foresee and plan everything; therefore, it is OK to close and correct gaps. This is exactly what I have been doing so far – thank you at this point to all those who are always constructively involved with many proposals. One example is the hardness fund for entrepreneurs, for professionals, for self-employed persons with a maximum of EUR 2 000 three times, up to EUR 6 000, in addition to other incomes such as pensions or salaries. This independent activity consists of a maximum of this claim. What has been improved? – Firstly, even if there are currently no income losses, entrepreneurs can apply until September. This is very important for those project-related calculators who only have revenue losses in July, August, or for revenue-expenditure calculators who receive payments on an ongoing basis due to invoices they have made in January and who do not have any more revenue until July and August. Secondly, the minimum payment amount for each application is EUR 500, even if in recent years no positive profit, no profit, no income, has been achieved, i.e. only losses have been made. Today, we have already decided that several minor employees are equally entitled to funds from this hardening fund. One last point – I mentioned it in my last speech –: The problem of bank loans is also addressed by the government. Thanks to the Minister of Finance, it is supported that the loans are paid faster and faster, and Mrs Schramböck has made sure that the fees are significantly reduced. I spoke not only of fear, but also of fact-based politics. Again and again, Austria is compared to Germany and said that it would be so much worse in Austria than in Germany, because in Germany all companies will receive up to 9 000 euros and up to 15 000 euros respectively. [[Call to the SPÖ:How many unemployed are there?]] But that's not true, apples are compared to pears. Yes, it does go up to this amount, but depending on the number of employees, and there are no additional grants at our expense. We have a differentiated system. Today we have also increased the Family Hard Fund, and the entrepreneurs are also available if they have a family. Our grants are not taxed either, as is the case in Germany, for example. Summary: I appeal to all of you that we work together constructively here, find a good solution, get good support for the economy and get away from blaming and shaming, from frights and even fakenews. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e20409	Next item is the report by Mrs Karin Doppelbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e20430	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Friedrich Nietzsche once said: “In praise is more urgency than in the blame.” In this regard, I can promise that my attention to the Federal Minister on the Government Bank will be very brief today. Leave You still start me with the positive! As an opposition politician, I have to mention, of course, if something good happens, and yes, in the two Covid-19 laws we are talking about today, there are already some things inside that we are supporting NEOS; for example, the important deadlines for the economic fidelity, balance-sheet accountants or civil technicians who are being extended over the so-called inhibition, or even that the hard-fall fund comes where cancellation fees are concerned, so that, if school events have failed, the cancellation costs can be reimbursed as school or as an educator. These are light visions, ladies and gentlemen, but we are already at the end of the listed urgency, because where light is, well-knownly, there are also shadows – and in this case there is also a lot of shadows. We discussed the issue of financial compensation shortly before. The fact that the local authorities wish to claim their costs of crisis as claims against the federal government can be understood to a certain extent, it was certainly foreseeable. But what you can't understand is that there seem to be some heads of state who anticipate that this will happen anyway. There are then cases like in Upper Austria, where masks were purchased, and then a press conference in Linz was made in a pompous way: An AUA machine has flown into Linz, you've been told what you've achieved for great things, and then, of course, let this AUA machine fly back in the empty flight from Linz to Vienna. The following week – in the media – the news comes to the Federal Minister in Vienna, in which it says: But we expect you to take over the costs! – So thank you so much, that’s a farce from my point of view, and you don’t have taxpayers for that. What we need in this context is transparency and a comprehensive overview of all the subsidies and subsidies granted by the Federal Government, by the countries and also by the municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say this: This is not something I wish for, it is an existing law that is still not implemented by many countries. If you already have something like the financial balance, I'd get caught up in saying: Countries that do not fulfil their obligation simply get less money! There is one more point – my colleague Fuchs has already mentioned it: Today, the possibility is provided for the subsequent control of crisis promotion measures by the financial offices. The financial offices are there experts who are in use, but they are just experts who can then make recommendations accordingly. Now you can say: Nevertheless, control is always good!, but then you have to take this step back again and think about what actually happened, why you didn't have the resolution of the hardening fund at the financial offices. – Yes, I know now, of course, the answer comes immediately: Because they had so much to do and one could not imagine it, we had to outsource it to the Chamber of Commerce! I didn't understand that at the beginning, but I now believe I understood it. I see what the financial offices are doing right now: These highly qualified officials have been forced to do so, x-thousand – x-thousand! – to deal with unnecessary tax recovery requests. Why is this support not granted automatically? And why don't you just say that the interest rates are not lifted, but you have to make an extra request again? - Very seriously: The company is not fad, they don't have a lot of fun bringing together and filling out the applications – and this is obviously a bit implied. All that happens is that it takes as long as possible until the necessary and so urgent aid funds arrive. – It just can't be from my point of view. Economic Chamber instead of Financial Office, Cofag with toothless advisory board, recommendations that can then be made: The list is long. This is already a lot of strange constructions that we are facing at the moment, and it is also quite right to raise many questions – and that is why we are calling for this Covid-19 subcommittee. You can see that you can organize this completely differently, because you don't have to look at Germany, you may also be able to look at Switzerland, which has really done it well. All I've been talking about has long been suggested, but what Swiss watchmaking craftsmanship is obviously the bureaucracy of the ÖVP. This is obviously the sacred cow of the form of office, which is just happening here. The citizens didn't deserve this, the entrepreneurs didn't deserve it. In the interests of the Austrian economy: Listen to the opposition and read our requests! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e20488	Next speaker: Mr Andreas Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e20509	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We debate a collective law in tax law, changes in income tax law, changes in VAT law and the Federal Tax Code, it is about increased audit competences for the Ministry of Finance, it is about, for example, doctors who have been recovered from the pension for the Covid use, not to disadvantage tax, it is about leaving the VAT on protective masks and other more. I would, however, personally like to address the following question: What is the basis for this crisis management that lies ahead of us? – That's what I'm allowed to say: The foundations are God's thanks in Austria very good. I have received the monthly report of the Ministry of Finance from February 2020, i.e. the latest monthly report before the Corona crisis. One will look at it a little sad, because this monthly report still shows a very clear surplus that we had in the budget, a surplus, as I have never seen it in a monthly report – alone in February, and of course you have to see the issues of demarcation, it was 3 billion euros. It would have been very nice if we could have invested this surplus in tax cuts and so on, but because of the crisis there is of course a different picture. It is important to me to look at the annual financial statements in 2019, because that is forgotten again and again. We had a significant budget surplus for the first time in 2019 for decades. I now come to the question: Why is this extremely important in the current situation as well? – There is a very simple reason, you have to say this quite openly: This 38 billion euro package must also be financed. No question, it is about tax subsidies, it is also about guarantees, but it is also about cash effective instruments, and – you have to say that quite openly – we have to finance them as a state. To that end, we must accept debts on the international capital market. However, the good financial policy of recent years now leads to our best rating having good conditions. I looked at it: ==References====External links== April issue a ten-year bond, which we were able to finance at 0.14 percent interest. This creates really good start-up conditions in order to be able to cope with the financial policy crisis as well. For shorter periods of time, we must expressly stress that we even have negative interest rates, i.e. we have to repay less money than we receive. This is also a good basis for voting on this 38 billion euro package. My predecessor Gabriel Obernoster, our budget speaker, has already mentioned it: This is also very, very remarkable in international comparison. I would like to talk about another aspect that is very important to me personally: Now to administer 38 billion euros, to shape it in the technical implementation in such a way that the money will be given exactly to those who actually need it, who also have a right to it, is really a Hercules task. I would also like to say a great deal of thanks to the cabinet; I think they have really deserved a corresponding applause. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens]] We hear from working shifts up to 3 p.m., until 4 p.m., until 5 p.m., so that the directives can be negotiated on the one hand within the coalition, on the other hand, but also as proposals here in Parliament. There is excellent work being done. We are at the beginning of crisis management, but I am convinced that with this technical knowledge, with this commitment, there will be the comeback for Austria with this heart blood. The foundations for this are very good in Austria. A joint shoulder clasp would be very helpful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e20563	Next speaker: Mr Markus Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e20585	Madam President. Minister! High house! There has been an announcement from our side, namely: The collective laws must have an end, even if the crisis is there now. – And now there is the next collective law. So that the people outside, who might still listen, understand what this is about: We are now voting in an amendment to the Income Tax Act, the Tax Act, the Federal Tax Code, the Balance of Payments Stabilisation Act, the COVID-19 Schoolstorno Fund Act, the ABBAG Act and the Act on Federal Assets and on the adoption of the COVID-19 Fund Audit Act. You can already consider parts of them as meaningful. I believe, for example, that the part about schools is that parents don't sit on the cost when school events are canceled, it makes sense. But how do you deal with us, how do you deal with the will of the opposition? How seriously do you take what we say? Mr Fuchs, I think, has already said very emphatically that parts of it are, of course, also a declaration of bankruptcy in previous policies. Let's take a look at this: The financial offices now have to check with an insanity all that happens in the Cofag. We have said from the outset that it would have failed to leave it at the financial offices. That would have meant much less bureaucracy. Just the party, who always screams that it needs less bureaucracy, creates a bureaucracy sample that is insane! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] All of this could have saved you if you had listened to us. We have heard at the beginning that the ÖVP is always about their word and that this is the party that is not about anything. – But how seriously do you take things that may not come from you, but conform to the will of the House? It was this High House, the EU's main committee on 11 November. It has decided on December that we are in favour of publishing the tax data at European level. I do not know why the Federal Chancellor is not bound by this decision of the House. At European level, Austria has again blocked a solution. So: How seriously do we take ourselves as a High House? Better to say, the question is not: How seriously do we take ourselves?, but: How seriously does this government take this House? And the greens are there too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is already the following big difference: They say: We have 500 to 700 more people at the AMS! - Yeah, you know what that is, don't you? If you go somewhere into a store and there is a shelf and you take something out, then you can have taken it out, but at the latest at the cash register, then keep the awakening, right? If you didn't put the money in to pay for what you have in your shopping cart, then you have a problem. The funds for these 500 people in the AMS that we need in addition, which we urgently need, are not covered. We have said that we want this to be properly regulated, we want these people to have a planning point, and we want the budget to be there for it. What happened in the Committee on Budgets? - Delayed. Now you can say: Well, we kept our word! – I say word keeps looking different! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have tabled other important proposals. A moratorium is nice when it happens on a voluntary basis, but quite honestly: Many know that being right and getting right are two different things. That means if it's hard on hard, it's just a law. We therefore want there to be a legal anchorage so that one does not depend on Goodwill to come to a performance. We want there to be a legal regime. That was promised, and that was not held. We have discussed another area in the Committee on Budgets, and there is no answer at all. What about the many common people? We made a proposal: There's a need for an aid fund. The answer was the same as that we heard in this House today about the communities: There's no such thing! – The nice thing about the communities is yes – I have listened to colleagues Hanger –: Yeah, it's nice when the money is so cheap, but sometime the best community has to pay the money back. It does not help the communities to be indebted, and it does not help all the aid organizations if they can accept loans that they can no longer pay any more! [[Abg. Obernosterer: Hardening Fund!]] That doesn't help us all. Another final word: The Committee had already heard: Who's to pay all that you're asking? – Here in this House, the Federal Chancellor has said that we will master this crisis, “it costs what it wants”. [[Abg. Greiner: Exactly!]] It seems to be only for those who have sponsored the Federal Chancellor, but not for the people in this country who actually need help. Mr Finanzminister, address to you a final sentence: It would be nice if you could speak in this debate. Secondly, It is nice that at least the Greens have now received the environmental report for the budget discussion. The Federal Government's report of participation is still going on – after all, we are talking about over 110 000 people in this country who are employed but outsourced by the Federation.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e20654	Next speaker: Mr Jakob Schwarz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e20676	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to take a short look at the 18th. COVID-19 Act. In particular, I welcome the amendments to the Balance of Payments Stabilisation Act, which empowers the Minister of Finance to make contributions of 650 million euros to the European Investment Bank for the Guarantee Fund, which is to support SMEs throughout Europe, and on the other hand to assume liabilities of up to 720 million euros in the framework of Sure, the European Short Work Support Project. I believe that this is an absolutely necessary sign of European solidarity and I am glad that Austria is also involved. I would also like to take a brief look at the criticism made by Mr Fuchs as well as by Mr Doppelbauer, as regards, so to speak, the context of individual proposals: I have assumed that this will not be the biggest criticism point; the laws that are now present are relatively related, and so it is - - – So the templates that come from the BMF are largely linked from my point of view, there is nothing particularly controversial about that, so from my point of view one can certainly agree to this as a package. [[Abg. Vogl: What does that have to do with? Excuse me, what's that all about?]] [[Abg. Vogl: What?- Oh, my God!]] The second point, which has in particular been criticised by colleagues Fuchs, is why the financial offices are now supposed to take control of all of a sudden. – Even there I see it this way: Even if you are against the fact that the Chamber of Commerce is the promoter, you must nevertheless support the fact that, if you had already seen it in connection with the promoters, the financial offices would at least take control. The separation between the one who is the promoter and the one who takes control is desirable from my point of view, in so far as that is appropriate. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I shall also put forward an amendment, namely the amendment tabled by Mr Gabriel Obernosterer, Mr Jakob Schwarz, colleagues on Amendment 440/A, which is the 18th. COVID-19 Act, in 143 of the Supplements. Article 8 of the Federal Law on the Examination of Federal Funding on the basis of the COVID-19-Pandemy is amended, and the rules which have so far been provided for in respect of grants are almost extended to liability, i.e. to those liabilities in which the Federal Government takes over 100 percent. Paragraphs 1, 6, 7 and 8 are amended accordingly in order to be examined in a similar manner to those related to the grants. I would ask for your consent. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[18:39]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e20850	The amendment was presented in the main guidelines, was distributed to all Members and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Gernot Blümel is now speaking. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e20879	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! Mr Vogl has asked me to make a contribution to the debate; I am very happy to follow this request. I would like to take the opportunity to give a brief overview of the current level of disbursement of the 38 billion euro aid package before I say a few words on the current topics. We have now pledged more than 14 billion euros from this 38 billion euro fund, and this has made liquidity available. This is made up of several areas, one of which is tax receipts of EUR 4.4 billion, which cannot be paid out, that is one of these areas, but it remains more liquidity in the companies – in other words, not paid, but expensive, completely correct, but nevertheless promised, and this helps the companies to better get through the crisis. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In addition, EUR 2.6 billion has now been taken over in guarantees to enable companies to also lend loans. We have made payments of around 800 million euros within the framework of the emergency aid package, in order to make progress in the care sector, in the procurement of medical equipment and in clinical studies. We have now increased to 7 billion euros in connection with the corona-short work. In this respect, Zig thousands of applications have now been approved and the resolution is on high-speed. – Thank you very much also to all the employees in the AMS who make incredible, because if you know that there are perhaps a few hundred applications for short work in normal years and now to the 100,000 applications, you also know that this is already a massive additional burden – therefore a great thanks to all employees in all AMS jobs. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] With regard to hardness funds, which can now be applied for in its second phase, we have listened very well to the feedback that has also come from the opposition, from many applicants, where we need to improve. That is what we have done, in the second phase quite massively. We have also increased the volume to around EUR 2 billion, the directives adjusted, and the period of consideration has been extended. Of course, the Corona crisis is a little later in some people than in some others. If, for example, an invoice has been invoiced in February, which will only arrive a few months later, then this will be reflected in the revenues in a taxed period, but will not follow any further sales; therefore, we have extended the application period. We have also stated that young entrepreneurs who have just founded later are entitled to apply. We have introduced a minimum level of funding, including for companies that have never made a profit over the past few years, but still need money to cover private needs. In connection with the Coronahilfe Fund, the 15-billion euro fund, with which we deal mainly with the loan guarantees and put the grant product on its feet in the next few weeks, I would like to say a few words on credit: We have tried from the beginning to put the best possible credit regime on our feet. We have also looked into Switzerland to see how this is handled there and have then tried to do the same in Austria – with the big difference that Switzerland is not subject to European regulations. We have long asked the Commission to take over this 100 % guarantee product from the Republic. We were not allowed to do so because it does not comply with European State aid law. After a few weeks, the Commission then said it was allowed to do so. – We have, of course, already done a lot of work at this time, put on a 90 percent guarantee product, then in Windseailes, faster than the Germans, we have also put on a 100% guarantee product, and now over 1,700 applications have been made in connection with this warranty product and many of them have been processed. However, we have also seen that there is still great uncertainty among the banks as to how to deal with it now. But you must not forget – and I would also like to thank the many bankers who have really done great things; in recent weeks 17 billion euros have been granted to loans, a multiple compared to normal times –: Since the last financial and economic crisis, we have rightly found many regulations that banks have to comply with in order to reduce their risk. The bank advisor, the bank advisor, has been trained on the legal obligation to take as little risk as possible, and by this bank supervisor, this bank advisor, we now require him or her to change the switch and take as much risk as possible to help as quickly as possible. This is also a certain exaggeration for many who have been trained differently for many years now, therefore also because there is a great thanks for the great work done under very difficult circumstances. However, after some feedback, we have now tried to get even better in the resolution by, on the one hand, talking to the funding agencies, on the other hand also with the supervision of the financial market, asking them to look at how to manage the European regulation as flexibly as possible, wherever it is possible to make exceptions, and, on the other hand, we have achieved that, for example, the guarantee conditions required by the European level so that the State can assume liability, now can be signed by the company itself by means of an oath declaration without auditing. It is only subsequently examined by the financial system, which accelerates the process massively. We must fulfil these guarantee conditions because, unfortunately, it is required by the European state aid law of God. My request – and I hope you will all support me – is that during this crisis, which is an absolute exception, we will also temporarily suspend the right of aid at European level for the duration of the crisis so that we do not need to take more Brussels bureaucracy into account and help our own businesses faster. I also ask for support. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] After long negotiations with financial market supervision, we have succeeded in reducing and accelerating the credit assessment required under the Banking Act, including in the implementation of the European Directives, insofar as existing bank credit customers only need a very superficial audit by the bank, because the bank already knows the customer. In the case of new customers, these must be carried out quite normally, the financial market supervision has said. For many existing customers, however, this will lead to a massive acceleration in relation to loans. I therefore believe that we have used every opportunity to take account of the needs as quickly as possible and flexibly as possible. It's a crisis we've all never seen before. We are taking measures that we all have never put in place, because, I believe, we are doing well to include feedback and to implement it where it is possible and useful. – Thank you very much also for the good cooperation with the House, because this is only possible because there are fast legislative procedures here again and again; thank you very much for that. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] On the measures contained in the package of legislation today, just a few words: This is mainly about facilitating citizens' settlements, such as the exemption of sales tax from protective masks, which I believe is very important in the present time. A change is made in the Federal Tax Code, so that in addition to a requested or sincere payment facilitation, a credit can be paid in the future in an unabated form – even there needs to be a change. With regard to retired doctors, who now come back to help in the crisis, we adopt derogations so that they do not suffer from tax disadvantages. And, of course, in all that we are doing now, we want to make it possible for all the funding we are now giving us to be properly examined in the following years. We want to help as quickly as possible, i.e. let as much culture as possible operate, but at the same time it takes enough control to prevent structural abuse. In order to put forward the one clear bar, it is also necessary, from the outset, to announce that all awards can be verified by the financial system afterwards. I thank you again for the good cooperation with the House in very, very difficult times – thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e20979	Mr Josef Schellhorn is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e21004	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Yes, you have rightly referred to what I actually mentioned in the morning, and I just want to show you what I have gotten in the last few days. [[The speaker holds up a stack of documents.]] This is mainly due to companies suffering from liquidity problems. They have also done quite properly what we have always called for: that in this case the Basel III criteria must be dealt with differently and that this is urgently necessary. Only: ==References== May. Many companies that have sent employees in short work – at least some or more companies – are already lacking liquidity, because the AMS money is relatively late. In my case, it's a relatively proud six-digit sum. Now I ask you – and this is the interesting thing: How does this work, when does this message arrive at the bank officials? – I still get e-mails today, which say that you have a 100% liability – of the 100 000 euros you get 95 000 euros; Processing fee 2 000 euros, okay – but the bank requires a supplementary declaration, a personal change and an entry in the basic book. Why is that happening? That's the jumping point! You have also mentioned that 10 billion euros have been spent. The Federal Chancellor mentioned that 14 billion euros have flown. You are now saying, hopefully, that the banks have spent 17 billion euros. What money has now been paid to entrepreneurs? Only the money of the banks in the form of a normal loan or the money in the form of a liability? – These are the ambiguities with which we are now living, and I would like to point out that it is pointed to a button because the enterprises are also again the wages. In the case of a contract between a Member State and a Member State, the competent authority of the I ask you here, with all the bank representatives, with Mr Treichl, to speak from me also with Mr Mahrer, to ensure that tomorrow until the last bank officials from me in Raika Goldegg all know what this is all about. As you have rightly said, they appeal to the Basel III criteria, they can no different. For the entrepreneur, the single point of contact is only the bank official, and that is the difficulty. Practice shows that we like to talk about it, but practice must also work. That is why I ask you, in the interest of the employees of each individual company, in the interest of the entrepreneurs, that this be implemented. I can't make you liable, but I have to nail you here because it doesn't work otherwise. It is about small and medium-sized enterprises, about the smallest entrepreneurs who suffer from the fact that liquidity is no longer available. I can hand this over to you, there are many cases inside that we have to discuss. [[keeping the thick pile of documents in height the other day]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e21058	No one is reporting on this. That concludes this debate. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? – That's not the case. As agreed, I will put the vote on these agenda items at the end of the debate on agenda items 22 and 23, on which the debate will be held under one. I'm just paying attention to this: At the moment, I have two statements of speech, and then we are entering the voting process. [[18:52:58]] 22. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (37 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Payment Services Act 2018 and repealing the Pfandbriefstelle-Law (145 d.b.) 23. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (108, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Insurance Supervision Act 2016 (146 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e21101	We are now coming to Agenda items 22 and 23. There was no oral reporting. First speaker: Mr Taschner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e21129	Madam President. High house! The Payment Services Act, which we will now adapt, regulates payment transactions, in particular cross-border payments, currency conversions, it also regulates the exchange of card-based payments in cash. Cash, that's your own, very attractive word. Free to Dostoyevski: Cash is printed freedom. You, Minister of Finance, as a student philosopher, will surely know this beautiful word. At the time Dostoevskis was still printing cash with the idea that this money must be founded with real values, land and soil or gold, but not since the beginning of the 1970s, when the Bretton Woods agreement became obsolete, we live under the regime, a peculiar regime, uncovered paper currencies. [[Abg. Loacker: I can confirm that we live in a strange regime!]] This allows central banks to allow money to flow to an unprecedented extent, and that is exactly what is needed now. It is good and right and important that this is happening now in order to be the master of the crisis and to bring the economy back to life. Nevertheless, it is necessary to preserve the value of money by referring to something that represents its foundation. This foundation is now no longer ground and soil, is no longer gold, but – it is actually a philosophical concept – this foundation is trust. Money is based on trust, but in addition to this trust, you also need to know what money is aimed at: It aims to provide resources to satisfy needs, hopefully growing needs, the best needs that are sustainable and future-oriented. This is, in fact, the core of an economic policy of an ordoliberal state, namely creating a framework, creating a trustworthy framework to make this game of demand and supply succeed. It is important that the state actually pump billions into this economic situation so that it can run, but one cannot expect too much from the state. The money is guaranteed freedom for individuals so that they can act economically in their own responsibilities. [[Abg. Belakovich: Is this state money?]] That's what it's all about. That, so to speak, this dialectic between trust and freedom, which you rule, is meant to be a minister of finance who is a philosopher, is, if you so wish, a lucky case – or to formulate it differently and paraphrase a thesis of a great theoretical economist and philosopher: The opposition is currently only happening in the interpretation of different interpretations of the existing crisis. But this Minister of Finance is committed to dealing with this economic crisis, and we trust that he will succeed.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e21198	Next speaker: Mrs Karin Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e21219	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Let us come back from this philosophical view to reality, and let me begin with for those people who are still interested and are watching, perhaps briefly explain what this is all about. The Payment Services Act deals with exchange rate costs in payment transactions between eurozone countries and countries with a national currency. The fees are sometimes very high, and with this law these fees are to be adjusted to national level. Second example of this item on the agenda, capital evasions in insurance companies: Liabilities are interested in the formation of provisions, and this interest rate is country-specific and different within Europe. Take Italy: high costs, high risk in times like this; Italy pays a risk supplement. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] We are in Europe, but do we want Europe to be shared? – No, we do not want to, but these two examples from two different areas have shown this division. What role does Europe play now? What do we need from Europe? . We expect a uniformisation of the measures in the fight against crises, in economic terms and especially in financing matters. What exactly does that mean? – For example, we need emergency reserves in health crises, as we now have them, such as drugs, and we need a well-financed public health system – I emphasize. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What measures are still part of meaningful financing in this crisis? – We as SPÖ call for fair funding in this crisis. Dear colleagues! How can it be that online giants are the big beneficiaries of this crisis, whereas small businesses, individual companies, have to fight for the naked survival? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition: What are we doing with the super-rich? I'm talking about billions of money. In my opinion, it is very likely that precisely these people will contribute to the financing of the crisis. Yes, how do the workers get, how do the hairdressers, the bakers, the beesl operators, the care workers, the medical workers get to finance this crisis on their own? Federal Minister, play now You're back with your cell phone, but before, you've celebrated the banks how great they are. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] – You do not mind, but why not celebrate on the one hand the workers who have to work in the middle of the crisis, and on the other hand those who are still waiting for their money today and do not know if they can ever lock up their business again? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Summary: We rightly expect Europe to be united in the fight against crisis. However, we can also expect at national level that the Federal Chancellor will seek constructive solutions and will not insure our population with fear and horror scenarios. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[19:01]] [[19:01:16]] Vote on agenda items 20 to 23
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e21304	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Can we start with the vote? Is that all right with the clubs? - I see that's the case. We shall come to the vote moved on the reports of the Committee on Budgets, which I shall make separately on each item on the agenda. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 20: ==References====External links== COVID-19 Act in 143 of the Supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled a motion for an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Obernosterer, Mr Schwarz, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an amendment concerning the amendment to Article 8. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a sign. – This is also adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to this at third reading, I ask for a sign. – This is also true at third reading, which has been adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kickl, fellow Members, on 'Real aid for Austria'. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on item 21 on the agenda. Draft on 11. COVID-19 Act with title and entry in 144 of the Supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We'll come to the third reading. Is there a sign of approval of the same kind at third reading? – This is unanimously accepted. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 22: Draft Federal Act amending the Payment Service Act and repealing the Pfandbriefstelle Act, including title and receipt in 37 of the Supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – That is unanimous. We'll come to the third reading. Who is in third reading for this? – This is also unanimously adopted. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 23: Draft federal law amending the Insurance Supervision Act, including title and receipt in 108 of the Supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – That is unanimous. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Who is in third reading for this? – This is also unanimously adopted. [[19:04:39]] 24. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 436/A by Mr Mag. Michaela Steinacker, Mag. Agnes Sirkka Prammer, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the 1. Federal Law on Accompanying Measures to COVID-19 in Justice, the Social Law COVID-19 and the Civil Law Mediation Act (8). COVID-19 Act) (139 d.a.) 25. Point Report of the Committee on Justice on motion 438/A by Mr Johann Singer, Mag. Agnes Sirkka Prammer, colleagues on a federal law with which the federal law on the more economical use of energy by means of consumption-dependent billing of heating and hot water t (Heizkostenkonstitutungsgesetz – HeizKG 1992) is amended (15. COVID-19 Act) (140 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e21479	We now come to points 24 and 25 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I welcome the Minister of Justice to the House. Mrs Yildirim is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e21509	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Minister of Finance! The SPÖ Group agreed to this draft law in the Committee on Justice, even if there were plenty of criticisms. In the end, however, it is of course important for us to continue civil court proceedings and to ensure that citizens come to their right in a timely manner. As you know, only hearings and negotiations are currently taking place before the Court of Justice in very urgent cases. Under these conditions, the statements made by the Minister in the Committee on Justice and Citizens' Rights alone in the last month amounted to 40 000 procedures. This is a very high number, especially when one considers how tense the human situation and generally the resources available in justice are. That is, if we do not now deal with this temporary law, there will be a huge setback, and that is not reasonable to many people who are waiting for the results of their procedures. However, it must also be acknowledged that, because of the current crisis, of course, there is also a return to what space the justice is in. From these considerations, too, we have agreed on this technique, i.e. procedures by means of videoconferences, which in principle violates the principle of immediacy. This technique should be used equally in hearings and in oral proceedings outside the court building. I am particularly interested in video conferences, because there is legitimate criticism of interests that there is a tension with Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Why do we say yes? It is in need of approval. Both the parties to the civil proceedings and witnesses may, where appropriate, request the postponement or postponement of the consent by the end of the year. The law contains a number of other provisions which are quite welcome, such as an extension of the deadline for the maintenance advance, which is important especially in times when people lose income, where many single parents are waiting for maintenance advances. The deadline for receiving maintenance advance without making an execution request shall be 30. In June, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the The changes in the association law, a democratically important institution, are also useful; larger associations are given the opportunity to postpone their member meetings by the end of 2021. ==References== COVID-19 legislation, however, is very difficult to regulate in criminal proceedings, particularly when it comes to legal proceedings. I do not wish to preface my colleague, Mrs Bayr, who will present this in connection with the request she will support for the SPÖ. This 8. As a whole, we can agree with COVID-19 legislation, because the benefits of this law, namely the restoration of the comprehensive implementation of civil proceedings, outweigh the disadvantages. In this sense I would like to thank you for the discussion in the Committee and also for the open information policy, Mrs Minister, which I very much appreciate. – I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e21557	Mr Prammer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e21579	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! Even in the judicial system, the operation is just as good as quiet – but not for long, because on 1st. May Respective 2. May begin to rerun the interrupted deadlines. This also means that negotiations must take place again, and we must therefore equip justice with the necessary instruments so that they can also be implemented. I say it again: We're moving the tracks in front of a moving train. The measures that are suitable for re-adjustment are also video-conferences. We have just heard very detailed what measures are planned in this law and what possibilities are thus given to justice. We have also heard that the possibility of applying for maintenance advance without a previously filed execution request will be extended. But we all know it's not done with it. It is not enough to create the legal and technical possibilities for further work during the crisis alone. In addition, we must also give justice the necessary human and financial resources so that it can resume a proper operation. We must not forget that the restrictions on physical contacts have not led to the removal of the judiciary. Rather, the system has been shut down for decades and decades until it had finally arrived at a point where it was already at the limit of the portable. It will not be enough, therefore, if we restore the justice she was in front of Corona. We must make them the effective and reliable institution we need through targeted investments. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Tab.]] Not least, this also applies to judicial institutions. In recent weeks, employees have worked there under the most difficult conditions and under great stress. With great care, they have managed to ensure that the inmates in the judicial institutions have so adopted and contributed to the measures that were particularly incisive for them. There were no infections within the institution in any judicial centre. Infected persons who came from outside could be insulated well and in time, so that there was no spread. But for them too, it is important that they soon receive relief from additional staff. We're moving the tracks in front of a moving train. We have the power to put the course through the crisis and continue into a better future.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e21625	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e21651	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! On Amendment 436/A, we have made ourselves very difficult in the Committee and here too. In principle, we would have liked to agree to this request, but will not agree to it because it is too large and too little practical for us. Of course, we can imagine video conferences in order to re-establish jurisdiction. In civil law, this is no problem at all, and I have also made a request in the Committee to use video conferences in the course of detention proceedings, as it makes absolutely sense. Only in criminal law does this measure simply go too far. You're just thinking: How should this work in criminal law in criminal proceedings? – Then you must also remember that 70 percent of the negotiations with interpreters are conducted in criminal law, because the accused, the defendants of the German language are not powerful. Then it's about consulting with the lawyer and, and, and. First of all, we believe that the judges do not implement this request in practice, as it is decided today. That is why we are asking ourselves why it is such a far-reaching proposal. Secondly, if we do not want to be implemented in part by the judiciary, then there will be nullities and the supreme courts, such as the Supreme Court or the Supreme Court, will be lightened and flooded with nullities. Then, at the end of the day, you didn't save anything. We are sorry, but we cannot accept this request. Mr Schrangl will address the heating billing law even more closely. I can predict: We will agree to this law, although the SPÖ, I believe, Mr. Ruth Becher, has tabled an amendment to which we could be more friendly, because from our point of view that would be the fairer solution. It is quite clear that it is not the intention of the partially scared population of the Federal Government to see that the electricity provider is now sending people to the house to take the readings for the bills. That's what we're gonna see, it's got to be, but it doesn't have to be done right now. One takes into account the average consumption over the last three years and this average value is then taken into account in this exceptional situation this year. This would have to be possible, but Mr Schrangl will say more about it. As I said at the video conferences, we are really sorry that we would like to agree. We see this as well, but in criminal law, of course, the accused have rights from our point of view, and it is not possible for us to accept this so far-reaching request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e21689	Member Kugler has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e21710	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I'll get together again. What's this novelle about? – In the first COVID-19 law, we have kept the civil processes to a minimum: only where it was absolutely essential. In the meantime, there is a big backlog and we will loosen these regulations today. That is, it can be negotiated: if there are large halls, then there, and if they are not present and the parties agree, then also by video. There are two other changes that need to be mentioned briefly. Large clubs, where more than 50 participants are present at a club meeting and who meet only every five years under the association law, have a year longer. The mediators in civil law, who have to prove training, also receive a year longer for this. - That's why it's happening today. I am very surprised at the speech by my colleague Lausch, who says: The Freedom Party cannot agree here because the matter goes too far with the criminal proceedings. – That is not the case, Mr Lausch, in this novelle! It would be, I think, the minimum if a speaker looked at the documents before he gave a speech here. I think so, Mr Mag. Stefan, very sorry that the Freedom Party, unlike all other parties, cannot agree to this novel. First of all, you agree that measures are being taken, then you say: Those measures shall be taken away. – Then the measures are loosened, and then you can’t befriend yourself. I do not understand this policy and this appearance either. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] My predecessor from the Social Democratic Party has announced that we will hear more about the question of video-negotiation in criminal proceedings, and I would like to say this very briefly: We allow the use of video to be negotiated in the civil trial, if both parties agree, and in the criminal proceedings such video negotiations are possible without the consent of the defendant. That is why we are dealing with it, and this is also the subject of a request from the opposition. I would just like to say briefly: Yes, the principles of orality and immediacy are important and are also part of a fair procedure under Article 6 of the ECHR. We have only a very big difference between civil law and criminal law. I just say that civil law is about the claims of two parties. In civil law, the procedure can be terminated at any time. In criminal law, the State has interests in the sense of public interest to a defendant. That's changing the situation. The Minister of Justice raised this issue on 22 February. April published an orientation aid which has also been provided to you, all opposition parties. It makes it clear: If in criminal proceedings one deviates from the principle of immediacy and publicity, then it is only a cannibal determination. If there are halls that are large enough, then they should be used. The purpose of the provision is to be applied restrictively, even more restrictively in the case of barn participation. There are dishes that said they don't need it anyway. In individual cases, proportionality is examined. This is where, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of the health of the defendant, of all those present in the courtroom, but also – and this is very important – is about the entire detention centre from which he may come and into which he carries the virus. You can imagine what happens then. I believe that the question of whether it is disproportionate, for example, if a U-port takes a particularly long time, is also a question of fundamental and freedom rights. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, the Ludwig Boltzmann Institute for Human Rights has confirmed to the government that we do not violate human rights with these measures, but it has also said what we must pay attention to in order to remain that way. We all support measures here that protect our people, but also protect fundamental rights. That's what we're all sure of! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e21772	Mrs Bayr is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e21794	Mr President. Ms. Minister of Justice! Yes, it's about – and it's probably all about us – that we leave the virus out of the detention centre as far as possible, that's not a question. As we do, there are several possibilities for this, and the agreement on video is quite a probate too. In fact – we have already heard it; Mr Lausch is referring to the joint motion for a resolution – the difference is that in civil law the parties must agree whether video consultation is possible at the hearing, whereas in criminal law, on the other hand, it is a purely discretionary decision of the judge or judge, whether this happens in a court proceedings or not, in a court case or not. I think it's also quite okay to do this when it comes to agreeing to pre-negotiations with video. However, in the course of a main trial, when it comes to a defendant in criminal matters, who is in detention – then he has been charged for this because he has committed a very high punishment, so it has been a massive, decisive crime, and there is a possible decades or all of his future life in the main proceedings – I think it must at least be true that the defendant must agree to this if he is to be accepted by video in the main proceedings. That is the difference and that is the content of this request. I also think it absolutely justified to insist that the defendant must be clear from the outset what happens, what rights he has, and that he can also insist on not being consulted by video. These principles of immediacy and esophagus are very important. I believe that all parties involved, both the jury on the one hand and the defendant and his legal representative on the other, must have the opportunity to react directly, to be able to understand directly the directions in the faces, the mimik, the gesticism without the filter of a medium. We also discussed this in the Committee: If, for example, an interpreter is switched on and the defendant has the opportunity to be in contact with his lawyer by telephone, this will probably be a bit of overhelming – I say now – and for a defendant to be difficult to act. I think it is very possible to take precautions in courts that one can prevent the spread of the virus in these few cases that it is about, even without a video consultation, whether by plexiglass panes, by enough distance, by mouth-nose protection masks or other. I am very grateful to NEOS for this initiative, which we are happy to support, and I think that it really needs to be differentiated between civil law and criminal law. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e21828	Mr Margreiter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e21850	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, We can To understand the rule of law as a living organism that needs our care, which needs our support at all times. The rule of law is just like any organism. We are currently experiencing it quite precisely: As the virus threatens our living organism, so there are viruses that can endanger the rule of law. These viruses, for example, are called fakelaw, which is called disproportionate interference in fundamental rights. These are topics that we have been seeing somewhere on the horizon for weeks now, and we have to face them, so that we have to deal with them! When I talk about Fakelaw, what do I mean by that? – I mean exactly what has become apparent in the last few days, namely that the population has been precipitated, there are rules, but in reality there has not been them. An example, Mrs Bundesminister: If you click on the question of whether participation in negotiations is still possible here and now on the website of the Federal Ministry of Justice, among the frequently asked questions, the literal answer is: By law, the Federal Government has provided that the apartment must be left only if it is necessary for work to provide food or medicine or to support other people and to walk. This is not the exception to the visit to negotiations. In this sense, the public can now be excluded in criminal proceedings. - Quote. Mrs Bundesminister, this information is wrong from A to Z. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] The Federal Government has not provided anything by law, for the Federal Government cannot make law, but it was a regulation – the famous Covid regulation of the Federal Minister for Health, those with the famous exceptions that we now know are possible, if one keeps a meter apart – nor does the word “spac” appear in this regulation at all, for example. That's how it works. These are official announcements on the website of government agencies. These are Fakenevs and viruses that endanger our rule of law. I have to say that clearly. [[Bravoruf and congratulation with the NEOS.]] We have heard this many times in today's debates: Health is opposed to the rule of law as if this were not possible together. If you work hard and are connected to basic values and fundamental rights, then both go. Therefore, it must also be possible to comply with the procedural principles. In civil proceedings, this is with the request; therefore, we will also agree to the package of laws because the video negotiation in the civil process is linked to the agreement of the parties. But we also demand this for criminal proceedings, because in criminal proceedings the principle of immediacy is extremely important because there is lay participation in criminal proceedings – unlike civil proceedings – and especially when lay judges are at work, it is all the more important that you know the reality of the trial. I can say to all the arguments put forward because of health protection: Ladies and gentlemen, I know a courtroom, that's my field of activity. Aprés ski-bars are not an aprés-ski-bars, there's enough space, you don't sit there, there's to the judge 5 meters distance, there's to the sworn 8 meters distance; that goes if you just want. We therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[19:29]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e22053	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. President. — The debate is closed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e22077	Mr President. Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I would like to take the opportunity, in a few words, to explain the measures to be decided today in this judicial package. As you know, the first and second Covid-19 packages have put in place a number of measures which have greatly restricted the courts. You heard it before: A total of 41,000 court hearings were held last month, 30 000 of them due to the covid crisis alone. Of course, we want to reduce this backlog step by step, and that is why we want to get into action as soon as possible. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This law should now make it possible to conduct court proceedings not only in cases of genuine urgency, but also in all other cases. Of course, we are not going from today to tomorrow in a whole The Court of First Instance has held that the Court of First Instance has failed to fulfil its obligations under the Treaty Of course, we must ensure that the health of all those involved is safeguarded, and therefore there will be certain limitations. We will not be able to use every courtroom because simply and decisively the size of some halls is not enough for the implementation of the measures. With this legislative package, we also create opportunities that give us a certain degree of flexibility. We have provided the opportunity for negotiations, but we also have a video-based witness agreement. It is important to us that not over the heads of the parties be decided, but that all parties to the proceedings also agree to these video negotiations. There has also been some criticism as to whether the parties could then delay these negotiations, and therefore we have provided that a party cannot delay the procedure. If the party does not express itself within a certain period of time, the consent shall be deemed to be granted. Of course, the party has the opportunity to object. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am well aware that this is a very unusual situation for all involved, both for decision-making bodies and for the parties, but also for all witnesses. However, in order for us to be able to allow negotiation despite the unusual format without problems, but above all without losing quality, it is of course necessary to cooperate with all those involved. I would like to tell you that I am convinced that we will succeed together. I can assure you that the situation will be evaluated constantly. We'll look at it all the time: How do the video negotiations work? How are they taken? Where do problems arise?, because one is very, very important to me: Access to justice must be available to all and equal for all, including taking into account the health of all parties involved. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to address some criticisms which are not related to this concrete law, but which concern criminal proceedings. We have adopted a law on criminal proceedings allowing us to conduct video-negotiations also with defendants who are in detention. As you know, exchange with Parliament and also with people in practice is particularly important to me, and I take all criticisms and all indications very seriously. There is concern that these measures in criminal law could violate the principle of immediacy. – I can assure you that we have carried out a very difficult but also important proportionality test. Firstly, there is the right to a rapid procedure, and each defendant must know quickly: Does he have to stay in custody or can he finally get out? – On the other hand, there is, of course, also the principle of immediacy, and therefore, in criminal proceedings, the main proceedings take place in contrast to civil proceedings in the presence of all. Only if the defendant is already in a detention centre, so if he is already in detention, the connection by video is possible. This is expressly a candidature. That is to say, we encourage the judge to give the judge the opportunity to re-examination of proportionality and to take into account all the circumstances of the individual case, whether there are interpreters, whether it is a court proceedings or a jury procedure. It was also important to me, of course, to comply with the criticism of the Bar Association and the judicial association, and in the process of passing this interpretation once again. It is only very, very restrictive that this provision should be applied when it comes to negotiations involving lay judges, such as court proceedings or jury proceedings. We agreed with other criticisms. It was also made clear that, when the defendant is connected via video, he must also be able to talk to his defender, and we have now ensured that the defendants are provided with a mobile phone to be able to talk with the defender unimpeded before the trial, during the trial and after the trial. In addition, video switching is only possible if a video conference system is installed in which it is possible for the defendant to see all those present in the main proceedings. I am aware that this is a difficult proportionality assessment, and I would also like to remind you that we have limited these measures by the end of May. I can promise you that we will look at it very carefully and evaluate at the end of May whether it is necessary or not. Ladies and gentlemen! I should also like to thank the officials of my home who have worked without neglect in recent weeks to find the best possible solutions to the problems. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I can also thank all the members of the judiciary who have maintained the rule of law during this difficult period. Finally, I should like to thank all of you for allowing us to decide on these necessary measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e22178	Member of the Commission. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e22199	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the Corona crisis, much is questioned, and that is right. Parliament is also seeking solutions in this exceptional and extraordinary situation, but solutions that do not affect the fundamental rights of people in a process. It's about video deployment in court today. People in court now have a right to a proper, fair trial. This is a fundamental right, and it also includes the fact that the parties are directly personal – that is also called immediacy. This is of great importance to the truth finding, to the impression that the court receives. The SPÖ does not regard the use of video recordings of witnesses and participants as ideal, but fact is: The corona crisis also affects the judicial system massively. There is a huge backlog of negotiations, and the citizen has the right – Mrs Federal Minister, you have already mentioned this – to quickly reach a decision of the Court of Justice, a case law. For the SPÖ, the timing of the measures is quite, very important, but: The savings have a long history, and there is also a responsibility for the very limited resources in the judicial system. The ÖVP has been drumming for many years: more private – less state!, and this falls to the head of justice. The savings measures for which the EIA Finance Ministers are responsible fall to the head of the Austrian State Justice. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With the ÖVP ideology: more private – less state!, we will not continue in the field of justice, we will not make any progress. There is a huge lack of personnel. – Mrs. Federal Minister, it honors you to express your thanks to the judicial staff, but thanks will not be enough to realize a proper justice in Austria. There is this lack of personnel, there are shortcomings in the IT sector and, of course, in the judicial institutions. However, the law to be adopted today also concerns association law. The upcoming General Meetings or General Meetings may be held by the end of 2021. In particular, it concerns large associations – including the ÖGB – which is gratifying. The Civil Law Mediation Act is also amended. The mediators, who now play an important role in resolving conflict, in finding solutions, can carry out their continuing training measures, which would be due for this year – these 50 hours to be proved – by the end of 2021. This is practical and a very good measure. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e22250	Mrs Fischer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e22272	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We can only deal with the corona crisis together. Our actions are in demand. We here in the National Council can make a small contribution by law, and it is our task to take into account in all areas the people outside who receive the structures that sit at the supermarket banks working in the care professions, but also those who read the heat meters. We have a law here today on the question of, for example, 200 000 Vienna evaporators in their home and can only be read in a complicated way. You have to imagine this: This is a small tube attached to the heaters. [[Abg. Kickl: I know!]] – Yes, some of us know this and have already had good or bad experiences with it. If this self-absorbing is not possible, it is now possible in Covid-19 times that this reading takes place in such a way that there is an accounting for a year. This is just and practical, and with it we create one – and I believe we want to do so in all areas – to keep the case numbers as low as possible and to look after and protect our people who are outside. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is important that this consumption-dependent bill is made for just one year, because you need to know one thing: If I have a three-year calculation, then that is not fair, there is once a longer heating period, once a shorter heating period. If I charge for a year – I wrote down what the ÖNORM is called: M 5930 – and do it according to the state of the art, then it works perfectly. It is just and practical, and so we can hopefully help the people – these 200,000 Vienna and others who have such complicated evaporators – with this small law. – Thank you very much, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e22313	Mrs Becher is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e22335	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The heating cost billing law and also the reading problem are certainly already a bit obsolete and get general attention again due to the current situation. That is why today's request 438/A, which includes the fact that foreign people no longer have to enter the apartment to read off heat consumption, is also very positive from the basic point of view; but if one looks at the draft more precisely, he seems only to be concerned that the money of billing companies that take over the reading of heating costs is secured. Who are these companies? – The market leaders are two international companies, Isa and Techem, which mostly divide the market in Austria – at higher prices. The German authorities also have this impression. The German Federal Cartel Office also recommended that these abuses be offset by a law. This has not been done, but both companies have been sold to a Swiss investment firm and a Chinese group, around 4.6 billion euros and 5.8 billion euros. This is very remarkable for a company whose business consists merely of reading out the hot water and heat consumption of rental apartments. If you put this in comparison: Opel was handed over at 1.3 billion euros to a French owner. I think it would also be a very good way in Austria if you took the German examples as an example, where the service providers are terminated, your own meters are mounted and the reading is changed in the long term. With the new counters it looks different, too, you can do that with radio signals from outside the apartment. The main difference between the SPÖ amendment request and Mr Johann Singer's request, Sirkka Prammer's request, is that the actual average consumption shares over the last three years are high and that services – that were not provided – must not be calculated. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[19:48]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e22461	Thank you. The amendment is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Reiter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e22488	Mr President. Dear Minister of Justice! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! In the case of request 438/A concerning the heating billing law, it is a question of the fact that, as we have heard more often today, our own apartment for a reading does not have to be entered by foreigners. The heating billing law regulates the distribution of heating and hot water costs in buildings with multiple objects with central heat treatment. In objects where the consumption investigation is based on the so-called evaporators we have already been described very precisely, the apartment must be entered so that they can be read out. The amendment of the law creates the basis for the fact that it no longer has to come into the home during the Covid-19 Pandemic that employees of readers enter the apartment. As we have heard, only 200 000 Vienna apartments are affected by this – so really a very large group of people. The apartment users are given the opportunity to perform a self-absorbing, and if that is not possible, it is possible to charge. The calculation was also possible so far, complying with the ÖNORM standards and is also very reliable from a technical point of view. The change allows for a higher proportion of the heatable living space to be calculated as it has been possible to date. This also complies with the ÖNORM standards, is technically justified and practical for people. The scheme is limited to 31.12.2020. In my opinion, any action we can take to make everyday life more practical and easier in the light of the corona crisis is very welcome. Our task is to identify problems and find solutions. It's best we can do this with each other. A Hickhack's never brought anyone on before. That's why we're holding together. Stay me gsund! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e22528	Member Schrangl has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e22549	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs. Justice Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen in the House and at home! You know that: If you have a house central heating, it is read out every year, there is even a legal obligation that needs to be read out, and of course we understand the fears and concerns of the population when, at this stage, strangers enter the apartments throughout the house and perhaps carry this virus. That is why we are also in favour of this request. What we do not understand, however, is that in view of the fact that two companies are largely dividing up this market – Mrs Colleagues Becher has already set this out impressively before – not to go the way for consumers who already have to suffer from this crisis to get rid of these payments this time. We are on the side of the people and not on the side of the big corporations, and therefore we also agree with the SPÖ proposal that these large companies do not yet come to see that they do not even read out to pay a fee. The people who are already suffering from this crisis have deserved to pay nothing for it, especially if they read it themselves. We are on the side of the people and not on the side of the big corporations, we have also demonstrated this with our request that we have made today: 1 000 euros unbureaucratic for every Austrian and this can be redeemed in Austrian companies. One thing you have to say is: These two companies that share the market are, as the colleague said, a Chinese billionaire and a Swiss investment fund. We don't need to support these people who have enough money. We support the Austrians with our thousands. Please vote! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e22582	Mr Stocker is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e22609	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! If you follow this debate, you can see that the following is evident: When you look at things under the loop, you can see two effects: One is that what is considered under the magnifying glass appears bigger than it is, and the other that the things float around, the rest. What do I mean by that? – It's a little floating about what it's all about. Some 40 000 cases have been suspended, but at the same time, the courtrooms are not suitable for each and every one of them to implement the protection measures related to the corona crisis. If we consider that this House regularly grants rights but also intervenes in rights, we can see that this intervention happens, of course, within the framework of protection standards and that consideration is the essential thing. But what does it mean to weigh? – On the one hand, we have the Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which provides for the immediateity and fairness of the procedure, but which also says very clearly that the procedures must be carried out in an appropriate time. On the other hand, in the field of immediacy – for the orality is not affected by the video conferences – we have already intervened in the legal systems both in civil law and in criminal law: In civil law, I refer to hearing in the way in which the principle of immediacy is also broken down, and in criminal law I refer to counter-dictorial hearing – something which is not so unproblematic at all, but is intended for good reason because of the protection of victims. When we consider the consideration to be made there, we see that there is a decree from the ministry, which points out that it is a candidature and that as guidance, the judicial discretion in the exercise is binding. There is also, of course, a guide to the case law in order to obtain this guidance. I am a little missing the confidence of the opposition in the case law. It seems that there is an end to confidence in the case law in this area, even though this is not the case when, for example, the Constitutional Court of Justice is setting up an expeditious procedure. This is also a major intervention in procedural rules, an intervention also at the interface between policy and case law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Yildirim]] That means I don't mix it. [[New call of the abg. Yildirim.]] – Mrs. Colleague, the impression that arises is that your political compass needle is aimed at the magnetic field of party tactics. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Furthermore, the rule on this hasty procedure, which is envisaged or desired, has been an unlimited one, and this would have gone without consideration for you: a substantial intervention in the procedural provisions before a Supreme Court. – On the other hand, there is a time limit in the field of video conferences of one month. [[New call of the abg. Yildirim.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is the thing of opposition to look for the hair in the soup. [[New calls from the Abg. Yildirim.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: This is not our task!]] I see it as our job to work for the fact that we have a soup at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e22681	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. [[19:57:42]] 26. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on motion 488/A(E) for a resolution by Mrs Großbauer, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Eva Blimlinger, colleagues on safeguarding the art, culture and sports organisers against further impact of the COVID-19 panel (141 d.b.) 27. Point Report and request of the Justice Committee on the draft federal law establishing a Federal Law on the Protection of the Art, Cultural and Sports Life against Further Effects of the COVID-19 Pandemic (Art, Cultural and Sports Assurance Act – KuKuSpoSiG) (142 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e22728	We now come to points 26 and 27 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Drozda is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e22755	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! What is being discussed under the title of safeguarding the art, cultural and sports organizers will contribute to a better situation, nothing will be certain – I would like to make it clear – because it is a disaster here, today and now, but in reality it is about the state of the industry, and the state of the industry is a disaster. – I have to say that as it is, and therefore this title is also misleading. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Fireplaces.]] We are now in the sixth week of the crisis, in this sixth week of the crisis, the first round tables begin with artists and cultural artists, and I have to say that is quite exactly six weeks too late. In the meantime, the hardness fund was revised for the third time, most recently this afternoon. A real aid is not, of course, that. In fact, three basic errors were made: The first fundamental mistake has often been described by us – and because I see Sepp Schellhorn: also by him – and again and again. This fundamental error was the abolition of the Epidemic Law, which provided for a full compensation of the earnings. By the way, this would also have saved the organizer industry. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The basic mistake was that in the resolution one did not use the bodies that had all the data that could have been done and that could have done this quickly and unbureaucratically – I mean in the case of the financial offices and the Ministry of Finance – but no, one has served the Chamber of Commerce. Moreover, the offer that the art resort will help the collecting societies quickly was cancelled. Nor has it been achieved so far for the benefit of the common people. In the evening I heard and heard colleague Blimlinger in “In the Centre”, there are resistances from Turquoise. Maybe you can take the opportunity to find out where we stand. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Fireplaces.]] The third and no less serious fundamental error is communication with those concerned. Every practitioner could have told you that the 20-squaremeter rule does not work in the museum or in the theatre, nor, by the way, in the film. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Fireplaces.]] The filmmakers wrote an open letter today, and this letter is destructive. But there is a sentence in this letter that I would like to quote now, because it seems important and exemplary to me. This sentence is – quote –: On the set there is no new normality! and I add: Even on the test stage there is no new normality and there is no new normality in the Bordone Hall of the Art History Museum. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Fireplaces.]] Unfortunately, I come to the analysis that most of what you have proposed does not work and also makes little sense. All are far away from planning security. Everyone is aware that the first one to be locked is the last one to be locked up again. It would be useful to talk to artists like adults and tell them what things are and not to treat them like infants. She, Mrs. State Secretary, is responsible for giving security and clarity to the individual artists as well as to the most prestigious festivals in the world. This is the most important task of cultural policy. So we know from a press conference that took place today at 8 o'clock in the morning that it will now be possible to sit at an inn table four times, and that is fine. You can also use 5 square meters in the swimming pool, even that is fine. I ask you, however, all the serious: What is the use of the events, what is the use of the concert hall and what is the use of cultural events? They urgently need a clarification of what things are, and please tell the artists, please, nothing about baby elephants! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Fireplaces.]] To be honest, this is not the level on which you talk to artists. Now for the voucher solution: The fact is, the organizers have huge problems, and fact is, these problems do not only concern liquidity. Of course, it would have been more useful for these organizers to fall under the arms elsewhere. Now there is a proposal that the liquidity of the organisers and ticket providers should be essentially secured by consumers. We do not agree with this in principle, there must be only clear rules of play, namely clearly defined vouchers and a clear settlement in the event of insolvency, and certain groups must be excluded from this scheme. In this sense, I put an amendment to the report of the Committee on Justice in 142, e.g. ................................................................................................ In second reading, the National Council wants to decide that in § 1 para. 7 a point 2 which states that this exception is added to persons who are underage at the time of purchase and persons who, according to § 3 para. 5 Law on the broadcasting of broadcasting charges From the payment of broadcasting charges are to be applied. Thank you. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Fireplaces.]] [[20:03]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e22928	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Blimlinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e22953	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the amendment tabled by Mr Drozda, whom we will not agree to. Let me take a look at the voucher solution: It's an art that no one can do. However, we have tried to support as many people as possible on this issue of tickets. There are marks on both sides, no question. A compromise must be found between the organisers and organisers on the one hand and visitors, customers, all those who bought tickets on the other. It is perfectly clear that not both are at their full cost. Important on the one hand that the liquidity of the organizers remains. This will be made possible by allowing consumers, customers, visitors, ticket buyers and ticket buyers to have a mixed solution between refund of money and voucher. In the current situation, it would be so that ticket buyers could get back the full price. This would almost necessarily lead to the insolvency of the organizers, not only of the great art and cultural organizers, but also of the small cabaret courts and the small organizers, who – I say now – exist from Burgenland to Vorarlberg. What is particularly important to us in these events is also the area of sport in which there is also a ticket sale. Let me now turn to the question of subscriptions. So it will now be so that up to 70 euros a voucher will be issued. Between 70 euros and 250 euros, 180 euros remain, which can be paid out. For everything over 250 euros there is a voucher again. This is a solution that applies to all. In addition, it is like: If you have a subscription, for example at Rapid – to make a bit of advertising here – you will probably not want to take one for Austria next year, but continue to have the Rapid subscription. So you can have the amount credited to the next subscription or take a voucher as you want. But if you know the commitment of fans to football clubs, you know that the subscription is always ongoing. Except, of course, institutions that belong to a local authority – that is, the federal government, countries and municipalities. I would like to say to Mr Drozda's amendment: Targeting for minors is absolutely not socially sound. That would mean that all minors don't have money, and you probably can't say that. So we can't even go with that. The question with the GIS is, of course, one thing, because we are getting into the situation that there is some sort of poverty exposure to a private person, and we do not want to do so because we do not want to create a precedent. It would certainly be against the need to reveal poverty to a private person and thus to make a commitment to wealth, which we do not think is possible. That is why we do not want to vote in favour of this amendment. Let me add a short postal script to the ORF and the GIS: Among your governments, with the participation of SPÖ in government, it was so that the contribution of those who are liberated from the GIS – and which you are now meeting – was no longer re-founded to the ORF, which means that the ORF loses 50 to 60 million euros a year – so on the one hand, so on the other. I have to say that I think we have given as many people as possible the opportunity to get a certain degree of security with regard to the tickets and to obtain a certain amount of refunding, and also to see that the organizers do not become insolvent. It's a very difficult situation where we're in, and there's a little bit of a cut-off from each side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e23004	Mr Delegater. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e23030	High house! Art and culture suffer not only from the corona crisis, but also from the responsible ressort managers. We have a misalignment par excellence with the Duo Kogler and Lunacek. Your joint press conference, held in Brussels on 17 February, will be held in Brussels on 17 June. April now has something like cult status, but unfortunately in a negative sense. It is also a contribution to art if you provide a cabaret template for Stermann and Grissemann, but so they have got their job, I think, not yet understood. [[Calls to the Greens.]] If the government groups in the National Council now put in themselves a non-binding motion for a resolution, it is a disgrace which is not worthy of this House. Apart from the fact that the application text fights with stars and is so stunned that it is barely legible, the black-green Members of Parliament demand from the black-green members of the government in the cultural and sports sectors – and I quote from this request – that “the possibilities for the suspension of economic hardships [...] be examined.” – So much more non-binding is no longer possible! [[New calls to the Greens]] What do you really want to say to us with this request? [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: What do you want to tell us?]] – So either it’s true that the parliamentary clubs of Black and Green have found an abuse in government work and are now demanding a course correction, or, in fact, you’re doing pure show policy and constituency here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What artists need is something quite different: First of all, you need planning, second legal certainty and third, which is very essential, really practical, and you still owe it to us today. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let us now come to your second request, art, culture and sports security law: What you are selling here as a great rescue operation is in fact nothing but an unbridled legitimate coup for the cultural and sports sector. It is also much too complicated and a cleanery towards the customer. First, you took out the Epidemic Act and thus took the businessmen's legal claims and demolished them to beggars against the Chambers of Commerce, and now you go here and have clearly defined the ABGB. They thus remove the right of consumers to refund their already paid tickets. Instead of the state coming here and jumping in here with grants and loans, you make consumers against their will into involuntary lenders. The perfide on this request is that you play the organizers of art and cultural events and the visitors of these events against each other. If you are voting against your request, what we are going to do, then this does not seem to be supporting art and culture organizers here, but that is not true, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Call:Please.]] The State is here pressing ahead with its responsibility and imposing the risk on consumers. Consumers must be satisfied with vouchers, and if they still want to come to their money, they must lend them a loan by the end of 2022. Please think about it! First of all, this credit is compulsory and therefore not voluntary in most cases, second, it is non-interested, third, it is not inflation-proof, and fourth, the worst, it is not insolvent. If I had to set up such a credit agreement in my profession in the notary, I would have serious concerns and would warn my clients of such a unilateral and risky legal transaction and repudiate them because of my professional responsibility. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you were at least as fair and had built into the law an insolvency protection! In the cultural and sports sectors, however, it will become too many insolvencys – hold a bit of a delay, but then finally – and the tokens will then pay the consumers who then sit on their vouchers. I am sure that depending on the financial situation and individual cases, many ticket owners would be voluntary, and the emphasis is on voluntary, accept vouchers instead of payments; but you put Their authoritarian policy of state-appointed forced measures continues, instead of actually helping companies and associations. But the invoice will be made in the end, and they will Get presented, I promise you! Another curve will also flatten, rather steep down, namely the curve of your survey values, because the people in this country are slowly, but surely enough. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[20:14]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e23291	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Kaufmann. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e23316	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, but also dear visitors to the event at home in front of the screens! A few weeks ago, our world changed dramatically, for ourselves, but of course also for many companies throughout Austria. As entrepreneurs, we were busy with how our next days would look forward to our next weeks. We were concerned about how we deal with short-time work, with liquidity issues, and many measures were made available by Parliament and by the Federal Government. Of course, these cuts were particularly hard hit by the event area. In the arts and culture, but also in the sports sector, it was no longer possible from today to tomorrow to conduct events. From today to tomorrow, too, it was no longer clear how all companies operating in this field, such as Caterer, Tontechniker et cetera, will be able to act in the future and bring in their economic activity. This has happened from today on to tomorrow, and precisely for this reason, so that this from-today-to-morning will also go quickly, it is necessary to support this bill, which we are discussing here, because it is precisely this bill that allows the organisers, ticket vendors, to have the necessary liquidity to make events happen as quickly as possible. Let us now, just as it would be specified at the moment, without this bill proposal, the entire tickets return again, it is not possible for the organizers to quickly offer back events that we all appreciate together. For this reason, the present bill, which provides that part is issued in vouchers and the other part is returned in cash, is so important to enable the re-strengthening of the music, culture and event area in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! We have already discussed in the committee the request that the minors or GIS volunteers should receive a disbursement. I can understand this in principle, however, I believe that the many organizers in Austria would cause additional bureaucratic effort, and I do not think that we should also hand over this bureaucratic effort to the organizers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drozda.]] We also discussed in the Committee that there are, of course, different events, with colleagues from the Freeman and those from the SPÖ probably not meeting at the same events. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the honourable Members once again: Accepts this bill because it gives this huge economic sector in Austria the opportunity to perform events quickly. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Finally, I would like to express the following appeal to the honourable Members in particular: Invested in events and in vouchers and perhaps not in the Jörg-Haider Memorial!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e23364	Mr Josef Schellhorn came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e23389	Mr President. High house! Mr Kaufmann has, of course, spoken of the events, of the organizers, yes, she has already caught a good point. As an introduction, we would like to say clearly that we consider the draft law important and correct, but it is one of the very few right signals in the cultural sector. You can say this quietly: The voucher system is okay, there is a good sign for the organizer industry, but of course there is also something you haven't thought about again. For example, what about those organizers who paid back the tickets in their entrepreneurial care in March and April? What about These organizers? We have not taken these into account, but I believe that we should also take them into account, because their liquidity is also at risk. That was just the introduction. We cannot support the amendment because of the red tape and other problems, and that is the main point. Mr Drozda has said this with the filmmakers. So these rules – I don't know how many times you have talked to the protagonists about this, but obviously I have to ask the question now: Mrs. State Secretary, would you say that you acted really fast, that you knew exactly what it was all about? Would you say that the Chamber of Commerce is exactly the right institution for cultural creators for the settlement? Would you say that you started very early with all the artists, from museum directors to theatre directors to the big festivals and the little ones who started talking? Would you say that you were really looking for the conversation quickly, because you also really quickly recognized their needs? Or perhaps say, I'm sorry, we're not ready in the sixth week, we're still working on it because we've been pulled by the ÖVP on the nose ring by the Council of Ministers because they said: We will show you where the Bartl will bring the most, and the culture is not important to us!? – That was the case in the past government. Would you not agree that the really fatal sign for the world-renowned cultural nation of Austria is – not only in skiing, but also because of our culture we are recognized worldwide, and people also come to us because of this cultural competence – that you have really neglected those in recent times, in the last six weeks, and that you have gone a little too fast because perhaps – again – in the Council of Ministers was told that culture is not really interested at all? I think you have something to do with it very quickly, because it is really the same as Mr Drozda said: They only come back to their feet after tourism, when there is a vaccine. And to do this, they need a cultural master plan of real experts. Gather Don't take these people at a table and don't run these pseudo-PR conferences, because they don't care – from the little to the big – about a cultural artist! They want real results and must be able to participate in a concept.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e23437	Mrs Lunacek, Secretary of State, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e23458	Dear – ah, the wrong! I was just thinking: I used to be. [[General hustle and bustle.]] This is the habit of many years ago here long or until a few years ago. [[Secretary of State Lunacek goes to a microphone on the government bank.]] Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government and opposition parties! This is really about something important, and it is today the second point that we have achieved in our mix of measures for art and culture – including for others. I would like to thank all those who have worked on this. It is a broad package that helps both organisers and customers, but also artists and the venues in which organisers make their events. I will come later, let me say a few words to the two speakers of the opposition, Mr Drozda and Mr Schellhorn. On the one hand, I would like to thank you for the basic support that this is a sensible concern. I'd be glad if you might give yourself a back and agree to it at the end. Maybe it'll work. [[Abg. Schellhorn: We said!]] But now, on the points you have critically expressed, on the NPO rules, i.e. the rules for non-profit organisations: This is a very difficult chapter, because it is a matter of finding a regime for all the very different non-profit organisations, which then also holds. These are smallest cultural associations, sports clubs and large houses in the arts and culture sector, as well as throughout the social area, in many other civil society organisations that need support. We're on it, it'll take a few days, but we'll succeed, I'm convinced. I think that's what the whole government says about that it's really going to be something. In a few days, I hope so, it will be so far. A second one, which was also accused of often communicating with people – I say not concerned but people – who make art and culture in this country, is not to foster. I can tell you when I came – it's not long ago, early January – it was my principle to seek dialogue with everyone from the beginning. I met with many in Vienna, I may not have been looking for a personal conversation with everyone, but I had a plan to do this with everyone. I started a federal tour. Unfortunately it became clear that I was just in Linz, now it's not going on: back to Vienna, stay here, nothing of it anymore! ==References== March, i.e. in these first days, when this crisis began, I actually had over 40 representatives of art and culture physically at Concordiaplatz in my section, and we heard their wishes and ideas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] In the period after that, we – not I alone, but my cabinet and the entire section, section head and many others – have maintained regular contact with all the various groups that belong to it and have collected information about what they can imagine. Yeah, that's how it was. If you don't want to believe it, ask those affected. I can't call any person myself, but I'll do it now, I'll get a lot of things. We had yesterday, today and have tomorrow - - – yes, video conferences, Mr Schellhorn, right now it is no different if you want to bring 20 people together in a room, some of them who are not based in Vienna, which are also available in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] There is a great deal of art and culture throughout Austria, not only in Vienna, I would like to say that as well. That is why it is also important to make at least these video conferences. Something else about this accusation, the wish – let us say it so – that there may at last be security and clarity, planning security: Which one of us doesn't want that? The problem is, we don't have it. This virus does not give us the chance to say now what will be in two weeks, in four weeks, in summer and autumn. That's not how it works. That is why we are today, Rudi Anschober has said, in the second of four phases of this process – we are only in the second, the first one we already have behind us – and the second is: step-by-step towards normalization and opening. There is no model around the world that shows how. In this case, we are the first to do this now, and we are now doing so step by step. One thing before I come to the content for a short time – but it has already been widely discussed anyway – to Mr Drozda. Mr Drozda, yes, your wishes are there, also with this request, which has been made here, but the criticism that comes so massive from you, namely also to the precarious social situation of artists, I must give it back to you and your party. How long have you set the Federal Chancellor? How long have you been a minister of culture yourself, were others from your party art and culture ministers? Where does this precarious situation come from by artists? You could have done something for years, if not for decades, and didn't do it! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Now we stand there, I started a fair-pay initiative in the first weeks – how many were it?, eight weeks when I expected correctly, before Corona. But this is unfortunately because now we have to solve crises, now we have to solve the necessities of all these artists. We have created a broad mix of measures. We have the hardness fund, in which artists and women artists are also taken into account. We have already discussed this today, and a great improvement has been decided. There is the COVID-19 fund of the KSVF, the artist social insurance fund. Artists and cultural artists, companies can go into short work and have done so too, and many things we have already achieved for art and culture. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Don't tell us that's nothing worth it! There are a lot of people who would like to thank us. That's not all. There is now a second phase of the hardness fund and a second phase of the COVID-19 fund of the Künstler-Socialversicherungsfonds and so on. This will continue, and support for NPOs will also come. And yes, we are working on it, and I hope that there are, as in the past, support from you and not just critical words. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drozda.]] Criticism is okay, but still: It's gonna be even better, and we're gonna get a lot more there. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now for the voucher solution: I'm glad it was successful. Finally, it is about the fact that in this pandemic, in this Corona crisis, many art and cultural institutions had to close, and that art, cultural and sports events had to be cancelled and that the organizers had to be reimbursed according to their previous status. If this would have to do all the organizers and event houses at the same time because most of the customers want their money back, do you know what would happen? – Many would go into insolvency. And then what will happen? Which of the people who bought a ticket will then even have the chance to get money back? – Only a few from the bankruptcy mass, but most not. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Most would not get anything, most would be left completely in the rain and sit on their tickets and they might hang up – how beautiful it would have been – but not anymore. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drozda.]] In the same way, a lot of artists would fall around their faces and lots of venues, I said earlier, would not have received the rent they would have received if the concert, the theatre performance or whatever would have taken place. [[Abg. Martin Graf: That must do the...!]] So it helps a lot of people. And that's why it's a model of fair risk distribution. It helps four stakeholders, as I have already mentioned. I am glad that we succeeded, and I very much hope that those who do not wish to agree so far will give their support to a back and to this model. This will help a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e23579	Mr Lausch is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e23601	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! – Yes, Mr Wöginger, thank God we have the record, I can only give it back to you. [[Abg. Wögerer: Thank God Hamma the Scheibn!]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP. – The speaker presents a panel with a red-and-white background of coronaviruses and the inscription “Allianz gegen Coronamahnzinsinn.at – Now’s enough!” can be read on the speaker’s desk.]] It's been said a lot. I can also, in my speech, largely agree with the comments made by my colleague, Mr Mag. It has already said everything on the part of our group. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] However, I would like to refer very briefly to the comments made by Mr Kaufmann of the ÖVP, who spoke here to the speaker and spoke of a Jörg-Haider memorialist. This does not happen, nor does it require anyone to talk about a deceased country captain and then leave the speaker's desk with a smile. I believe that you do not need this, Mr President, and you should not do that with all fairness. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Application 488 concerning the protection of art, culture and sports organisers against further consequences of the COVID-19 panel: What's he gonna do? – Of course not the consumer. In our opinion, this request is too little for consumers, and that is why we are not going to agree and there is nothing to be considered. Mrs. State Secretary, you said something very important: What if the organizer becomes insolvent? - Then there's no bar. Mrs. State Secretary, what am I going to do with the voucher? What do I do with the voucher that is valid until 31.12.2022 when the organiser is insolvent? I'll ask you this question. You can't justify that. Look, it's not just a free history, but also the VKI, also with good law, is clearly against a mandatory voucher solution: ‘VKI against mandatory voucher solution at events’, ‘consumers must not be used to finance the organisers’. And not only the VKI, but also the AK consumer protectionist Gabriele Zgubic says: “If consumers of organisers are already to accept vouchers under the pressure of the Corona crisis, at least it must be clear that these vouchers are worth their money, i.e. they are insolvent.” That's what we're talking about. It can't be in the crisis, please, that you say: You now protect the organizers, but the consumer remains on the track in the event of insolvency! A request for goodness: You can say, okay, you're giving vouchers, but they should at least be insolvent. We wouldn't have a problem with the vouchers. It can't be that at the end of the day the consumer – and I think consumer protection is worth something to all of us – remains as a geneeper, as a damaged person. You, Mrs. State Secretary, find it funny, the injured one probably less if he can hang his voucher somewhere and get nothing for his voucher at the end of the day. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Disoski.]] We don't think that's funny, we're here with consumers. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that it cannot fail to give consumers this insolvency assurance not easy. It costs no millions, no billion euros. It's a pure cause of decency, and then the spirits separate: Either one has a reputation and says that consumer protection is worth something to us in this house, or the vouchers may be a bubble and consumer protection is therefore not worth us. It is absolutely worth to us the freedom of the consumer. That is why you support our motion for a resolution. Thank you very much. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Vogl.]] [[20:37]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e23732	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Großbauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e23757	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Dear Seers! High house! For the second time today, I am allowed to report on art and culture, namely on the application for the protection of art, culture and sports events against further covid effects. On the substance of this request, I should like to follow the remarks made by the honourable colleague Blimlinger, my esteemed colleague Martina Kaufmann and the Secretary of State: Culture is called event. I have already explained how art and culture are related to so many areas, including organizers, ticket vendors. And very often the cultural artists, the artists themselves are ticket sellers, organizers and the booking agency; they do all of this themselves. This voucher solution up to 70 euros is a very good solution, it is also intended for the organizers in the long term, i.e. for these companies and also for the artists who are themselves organizers, in order to maintain their liquidity, because otherwise they stand in front of the ruin. It is about large organizers, festivals that can also be multi-day, but also small stages, cabarets, micro-events, because we now have to look at the fact that the cultural sector and the cultural organizers can rise again in Austria. Mr Schellhorn, allow me another comment: I guess. You really are, but your eternal accusation to the People's Party that the culture does not interest us is such a cliché and has a beard that is three times as long as your own. That's just not right! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Culture is very important to the People's Party. That's always been the case. The last few weeks, health has been a bit more important, but I hope that will come back again. Dear colleague Reifenberger from FPÖ: So I haven't found any stars in the request at all, but if you're irritated by Sternderln, I'll be happy to do a home schooling lesson with you and help you read the application. Thank you. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[20:39]] [[20:39:54]] Vote on agenda items 24 to 27
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e23811	No one is reporting on this. The agenda is exhausted. We now come to the moved - - – Thank you! [[Deputies Scherak and Schellhorn:The agenda?- Oh, my God!]] That'd be nice! [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] We are now coming to the - - – Not even that! [[Call:... are exhausted]] Not at this time! We shall now come to the vote moved on the reports of the Committee on Justice, which I shall make separately on each item on the agenda. Can I ask the clubmen if they're okay? - Good. We shall now proceed to the vote on item 24, on item 8. COVID-19 Act in 139 of the Supplements. Hiezu is in favour of separate vote by Mr Stefan. I shall therefore vote first of all on the part concerned by the request for separate vote and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Article I as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those Members who are voting in favour of it to be a sign of approval. – This is the majority, accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I should also like to ask for a sign at third reading for those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This was also adopted by a majority of the third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Margreiter, Mr Bayr, Mr Stefan, and others on 'Video conferences in criminal proceedings only with the agreement of the defendants'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 25: Draft concerning 15. COVID-19 Act in 140 of the Supplements. There is an amendment tabled by my colleague, Mr Becher, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I shall first vote on the part of the amendment concerned and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. The Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment concerning Article 1 Z1. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent. – This is the majority, accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I would ask the ladies and gentlemen to give him the approval to give a positive sign. – That too is the majority, adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to the draft at third reading may give a sign again. – This is the majority adopted by a majority in the third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on item 26, the resolution attached to the Committee's report 141 of the Supplements on 'Safeguarding the art, culture and sports organisations against further consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the majority, accepted. [[33/E]] We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 27: Draft Art, Cultural and Sports Assurance Act in 142 of the Supplements. Mr Hiezu has tabled an amendment tabled by Mr Drozda, colleagues. I must first vote on the part of the amendment concerned and then on the remaining parts which have not yet been voted on. Members Drozda, colleagues have an amendment concerning § 1 para. 7 to be added. Who is for this, I am looking for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever is in favour of this, I can also ask for an acceptable sign at third reading. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members of the European Parliament on the urgent manufacture of planning, safety and realistic requirements for local art and culture. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Christian Lausch, colleagues on ‘Insolvency insurance for vouchers issued on the basis of the Art, Cultural and Sports Code’. Those who are in favour of it, I ask for a corresponding sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. [[20:45:32]] 28. Second reading: Report by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on Amendment 409/A by Dr Nikolaus Scherak, MA, Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues concerning a federal law, with which the Federal Law of 4 December 1989 was adopted. The Rules of Procedure of the National Council (the Rules of Procedure Act 1975) were amended on July 14, 1975 (147 p.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e23918	We're now on the 28th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Gerstl is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e23945	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Next Topic: Committee of Inquiry, an amendment to the Rules of Procedure. I am pleased to be able to say at the beginning that we have a common solution in this regard. It is simply a question of slowing down the time limits for the Committee of Inquiry and thus, because we have proposed that we can make the initial surveys within the framework of the Ibiza Investigation Committee immediately after Easter, we can repeat this time. We agreed on 42 days of survey, and the Ibiza Investigation Committee will, of course, run until summer next year. What's that about? – One more moment: It is simply about whether the statements of Strache and Gudenus were in the video simple brahing or whether these statements were also followed by actions, and of course we will investigate that. I thank you for the unanimity and clarity that have been achieved. This unanimity has probably also been achieved because it is clear to all that the corona virus is a corresponding intervention in the normal course of life for many Austrians, and therefore I can allow myself to use this item on the agenda now to speak again of the opposition, and especially of the SPÖ. It is about the measures that we have decided today, namely that we can get back to life, that we can really enter into force, and that requires a Federal Council meeting this week. If the SPÖ continues to maintain its resistance and the Federal Council meeting cannot be held this week, no new building notice can be issued from next week onwards, no new commercial permit can be granted from next week, then life in the city, the country and all over Austria will be held back by two weeks. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] – You, Mr von der SPÖ, are responsible for this if life cannot be raised in Austria! [[Abg. Vogl:...not! You're responsible for this!]] This costs the Austrian economy hundreds of millions of euros, and you bear the responsibility for that! [[I should like to congratulate Mr Maurer and Mr Prammer on his work.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it goes even further! It is also a provision of the delivery law, which states that, due to the Corona crisis, one does not hand over to the person concerned an RSA letter, which one has to issue in its own hands. Imagine the following: There is a person who is coronally infected, receives a special notice – and has to sign this RSA letter on his own within two weeks due to the opposition of the SPÖ. It contributes to the fact that this virus can be transmitted to dozens, perhaps hundreds of other people by means of the letter carrier. Ladies and gentlemen, this party policy, which is fully opposed to the interests of the population here by the SPÖ, is not responsible! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] I can only ask you, as an opposition, to keep in mind that in this difficult crisis phase, we are doing what is necessary for citizens. [[Abg. Vogl:... RSA letter!]] They, the citizens, have behaved as best they can, they have made sure that the curve has gone down that way. [[with the right hand making a movement steep down]] Now it is up to you that the curve remains below, Mr. von der SPÖ. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This is what I demand of you so that we can revitalize life and the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e24031	The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer. - Please. [[Abg. Mr Krainer: (in the direction of President Sobotka) I am sorry, Mr President, I am now allowed to talk about everything, or -]] – You are speaking, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e24081	Thank you, Mr President. This is obviously a free hour in which you can talk about everything, even if it has nothing to do with the subject. Nor must it be qualified, as Mr Gerstl has seen, that what is said can also be completely unqualified. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It can be bar of any knowledge of content; the President seems to believe that at this time one does not have to talk about the matter, that one does not have to stick to any content, one can simply say anything. [[Call to the ÖVP:On the matter, Mr Colleague! On the matter!]] – I don’t want to comment on this at all, that’s honestly too deep for me what he said. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I should like to talk about: This is a change in the Rules of Procedure. We have slowed down a number of deadlines due to Corona, and Mr Krisper has said that this should actually apply to the committee of inquiry. She made this request here – she was not present personally, so her name is not on the request, but it was her idea. This request was unanimously adopted by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. There is a small change because of this obstacle two more deadlines in the Rules of Procedure For this reason, I would simply like to make the following formal request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is simply about the fact that three months are lost in the calculation of the deadlines, because during these three months the corona crisis of the investigation committee cannot work. Just as this applies to court proceedings and so on, this should also apply to the committee of inquiry. I think that is right, and I am pleased that this can be decided unanimously at the end of the day. The importance of this Committee of Inquiry is also evident today. We remember the former vice - chancellor, who meant “Novomatic pays everyone”. Whether Novomatic has paid everyone, I don't know, the investigation committee will look at it, of course, but what we have experienced today has shown how incredible an influence Novomatic did not have on the FPÖ at all, but on the ÖVP. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] That's terrifying. So far, we have had the suspicion that, as far as parliamentary questions are concerned, MEPs are asking questions to ministers, so there was a right to suspect that the answer to a request from Mr Krisper by the then ÖVP minister was written off by Novomatic texts, which were publicly available. So the suspicion was: Löger writes at Novomatic when it comes to parliamentary responses!, which is actually unthinkable. Today – today! – has become known that it was not just that ÖVP finance ministers have written off from Novomatic, no, the Novomatic has answered parliamentary questions di- rect. The Novomatic attorney has prescribed requests for ÖVP ministers, and the Minister has only signed them. Please, what kind of country do we live in when Members ask questions about gambling to the ÖVP Finance Minister and the answer comes directly from Novomatic's lawyer?- Oh, my God! That's terrible – and I haven't heard a word about it yet! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] I have not heard a word here, neither from the current Minister for Finance Blümel nor from Mr Wöginger, nor from any ÖVPler, has no one said that this is a practice that does not go and is stopped immediately. That's terrible! The Examining Committee will also have to look at this matter, namely the influence or influence of Novomatic on the ÖVP, on the government. Because of what we know so far, I can only say one thing: I'm so horrified, I'm out of measure! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] [[20:55]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e24225	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Stögmüller is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e24249	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! It's finally going on: ==References== We are starting the investigation committee on June to become one of the largest political scandals in the Second Republic. It's time we finally brought light into this dark anticorruption swamp. At present, the headlines are going through anyway. The colleague presented it a little emotionally, but the headlines on the current situation are already very clearly focused on the Committee of Inquiry, whether in relation to the Soko, which – at present – was active in at least 35 investigation procedures. Further: Novomatic helps the Ministry of Finance to deal with parliamentary requests, Novomatic chief Count spends large sums of money on artists, and there is a long list of people who have received nice gifts from him, “posting in WhatsApp’s chat course”, blue institute as a “lukrative source of money” – just to give a small extract from what has happened in the last days and weeks, a rather short period, so in the newspaper. [[Abg. Kickl: Now it's gonna be exciting in the coalition!]] In the context of the Enlightenment in the Investigation Committee, we have now looked much more closely and I am quite honest that we will start soon and bring some light into so many darks, especially as regards these headlines and what the colleague has said. We have also used this committee of inquiry now, because of Corona, for free time, to roll files. I can tell you that there will be a lot of interesting issues that we want to show and become. We will also look closely at the topics. On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. We Greens, especially the green team of the Committee of Inquiry with Nina, are very pleased that there has been a common solution in the Committee of Rules of Procedure. We want to continue on this common path. I believe that this is a right way, especially on such issues, when it comes to information and transparency. We thank you very much for having come to a common solution here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The Committee of Inquiry will not be restricted due to the corona crisis, but the deadlines will be restricted for three months. We will use time intensively or have already used it to read us into the files. It is as I have said, so exciting, and I am looking forward to the work and to bringing light into the dark in the Causa Ibiza. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e24292	Mr Krisper is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e24313	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that our request, the SPÖ's request and us, with regard to time-limitation in the investigation committee, can be implemented jointly here in line with what took place in the judicial system – there was also the time-limitation. This is very important, in our opinion, because we need any time for information. Since the speech here last week, as Mr Krainer has already said, the “standard” has already been shown in an article on chat protocols that suggest that Novomatic supported the ÖVP-led Ministry of Finance in answering a parliamentary request from the opposition. First of all: This is a parliamentary question. If a ministry can help to answer such a request from companies, it must be criticized. If the knowledge necessary for answering a request is not available in the ministry, then there will be an acute need for action at the latest. If, however, the Ministry of Finance is still involved, which is a supervisory authority. Listening to gambling works, let a gambling company work out answers by Novo-Helphotline, then, ladies and gentlemen, this is an inconceivable abuse to be followed. It is obvious that in the case of questions, it is now necessary to end up asking who has helped in the preparation of the question answer. We remember the name drop of the former vice chancellor in Ibiza, keyword “Novomatic pays everyone”. It is likely that it will be necessary – and this is a blamage – to ask such questions in the future in order to get to the bottom of dubious liaisons. Such a dubious close-up relationship between Novomatic and ÖVP Finance Minister Löger was already publicly discussed by NEOS in spring 2019 as a result of a request response, since arguments in the reply of Finance Minister Löger were almost wordident to us with those of the press release of Novomatic. The press release is of course freely accessible, so the Ministry of Finance did not have to involve the CEO of a billion-hard gambling company in the request response. However, it is already a matter of taking over Novomatic's argument, if, as in this case, as Minister of Finance by buying by doing so, one takes into account the wording of the OGH decision in the case of opposition to the experts in his own home and to the legal view of his own home. Who used this fact-finding answer? – The Novomatic. As a result of the consistent argument of Löger and Novomatic, a permanent case law of the OGH as a case-law decision was taken in small cases, but after which all people who had lost their money at the non-lawful slot machines established by Novomatic in Vienna by the end of 2014 could claim their use of the game. This is about billions, and it is about the existence of mostly young men in already precarious conditions. What is the advantage of an answer to a question for Novomatic? – It can rely on the response of a Minister of Finance in processes that are currently under way. She writes, for example, in a process: This answer from Minister Hartwig Löger corresponds to our claim. Thus, the supervisory authority responsible for gambling represents the view that we have also carried out administratively approved gambling according to the old legal situation, which was precisely judicial by the court. - Quote. The picture thus becomes more and more clear every day, and we will be discussing problems in the committee of inquiry. It is good that we now have a full 42 session days available for the surveys and on many other topics, so thank you for your consent to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e24361	Member Silvan has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e24383	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen at home! We all know the allegations that stand in the room regarding the Ibiza video, we all know the allegations that are in the room due to the casinos-posting, in connection with Novomatic et cetera, et cetera. Everything has already been said about this, and it will be discussed at the next plenary and committee meetings. But what is it really about? – In reality, it is also about – and I am very pleased about the unanimity on the time-limitation of this committee of inquiry – that the population sees that the Parliament continues to work in spite of the corona crisis and is doing important information work in the sense of democracy. Parliament also follows its lead with the restless reconnaissance of events around Ibiza and Casinos Austria. – Let’s probably give a clear rejection to buying politics! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Every vote is worth the same. Let us ensure that, after choice, people's needs are treated equally, whether you have a thick wallet or whether you're not on the sun side of life! There must never be the impression that some can judge and some cannot. If there is a suspicion that policy is available for sale, then we must make every possible contribution to making it possible for such operations to be resolved without delay. Anything else would be dangerous to democracy. Democracy, democratic freedom is also the best compass in stormy times. I wish the members of the Committee of Inquiry all the best and good luck. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e24425	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e24446	Mr President. High house! Since Mr Gerstl was granted us as a late sandmaid and told us what is not going to happen now, I would like to say one thing: At the end of the day, you have to justify what measures you have taken, why you have put them in place, and what will happen. That's what we're going to look at, and I'm very excited. Another thing: If you are now complaining that the Federal Council will not be called up in advance, then think about why! You have always lost us in the last sessions, with collective laws and other things, and this has simply led to the fact that there is no confidence either; therefore we will not now support any measures that will help you to get to the goal faster with any measures. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stägmüller: Mr Stögmüller, you may have forgotten – I do not know – that you are no longer young, and overlooked that Mrs Glawischnig was responsible for the protection of players at Novomatic. [[Calls to the Greens.]] So we also need to look at how to get into this position – everything very exciting. On the subject: It is, of course, very, very important that we do not lose time in this committee of inquiry to ensure that we really have the necessary information. Of course, we as the FPÖ do not want to make our contribution to this. There must also be a quick investigation. For example, if we learn in today's media reports that there are direct connections from Novomatic to the Ministry of the Interior when we learn about networks every day and we really have to ask ourselves whether Novomatic is actually in the government – and if so, how we deal with it – then it is the highest railway that this investigation committee starts to work so that at the end of the day we do not find ourselves in this new normality that the gambling companies are in the government, answer questions and do other things in the cabinets. We do not want this new normality, and therefore I am looking forward to the soon beginning committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e24504	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. I ask the clubs: Can we vote? We shall now proceed to the vote on the report of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 147 of the Supplements. Mrs Gerstl, Mr Krainer, Mr Stögmüller, Mr Krisper, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the part of the amendment concerned and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Since this draft law is an amendment to the Rules of Procedure, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 2 of the Rules of Procedure specify the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. - That's the case. Mr Gerstl, Mr Krainer, Mr Stögmüller, Mr Krisper, Mr President, have tabled an amendment on paragraph 1. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. I expressly note that the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes is also available. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This is also unanimously adopted. I should like to point out once again the need for the two-thirds majority. [[21:09:06]] 29. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 411/A(E) by Mr Stephanie Krisper, Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 30. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Georg Bürstmayr, colleagues on a federal law amending the BFA Procedure Act 2012 and the Asylum Act 2005 (7). COVID-19 Act) (149 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e24599	We shall now proceed to items 29 and 30 of the agenda on which the debates will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Einwallner, to whom I am allowed to speak, is mentioned in the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e24627	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! On the one hand, we are dealing with one request on the amendment of the BFA Procedure Act and the Asylum Act on agenda items 29 and 30. This amendment agrees with us because it makes sense. On the whole, it is a question of extending the freedom of movement of unaccompanied minor asylum seekers in such a way that, in the case of necessary covid measures, care can also be taken outside a first place. It is also ensured that legal advice can take place there. In addition, the change is limited in time, so it will be happy to support it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, on this point of the agenda, we are now discussing motions for resolutions which have been tabled. Unfortunately, in parliamentary everyday life, one feels very, very little that the Greens are now part of this government, a government party, because these motions for resolutions have suffered a fate that many times suffer such requests: Of three motions for resolutions, two were postponed in the usual manner. In the meantime, the Greens have already postponed very, very good motions for resolutions. One then remains, and to this there is then a very superficial wasch-washing by the government parties that we will not support. As already stated in the Committee, the three motions for resolutions tabled by NEOS on the subject of asylum are in favour of our support, and we will support them there too and do not agree with the government proposal. One feels quite clearly: The Greens are becoming more and more an anti-transparency party. You can feel this when it comes to this Covid subcommittee. They become an anti-control party when it comes to the investigation committee. We are glad that you agreed to this suspension, but please remember how small you wanted to hold this committee of inquiry in Ibiza! And you will be world champions in procrastination, you will be world champions in adjourning applications, even on topics where you have to throw your attitude overboard, as in the area of asylum and human asylum. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr President, let me take the opportunity to address some of the measures you and your ministry have taken in the time of the crisis. We no longer have the time to discuss the whole set of measures. One thing before: My thanks and our thanks to the police who carry out an important task in this country every day, they do really valuable and great work! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At the same time, the complaints are increasing that the measures or sanctions imposed in the event of a breach of the Covid provisions are overwhelming; and it is the wrong ones, because it is the police, the executive on the ground. But debt is quite different, because it is the unclear requirements that come from the ministry. The police are overwhelmed with a lot of what's out there, and that's why it happens that the people's anger and frustration get away with the wrong ones. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the Committee you reported that there were 30 000 ads in these cases, there were 3,600 organ penalties. I would be interested, Minister, in how many of these measures How many of these penalties have been imposed or imposed on account of the unclear statements of the Federal Government. It was only yesterday that it became clear that there was quite a possibility in the private sector to meet, and all these cases belong to and addressed. At the very end – my speaking time is already over – I have to tell you one more time, Minister: The language you choose in this crisis is unbearable. They're talking about eradicating Glutnestern. They're talking about the flexibility that the police should be. – This language is a source of fear, and we do not need that! We don't need any fears! It needs security in the crisis and not the arousing of fears. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e24702	Mr Mahrer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e24723	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear Austrians! I believe that today's plenary session from 9 a.m. until now has shown: Covid-19 is omnipresent and has changed our lives. Covid-19 has influenced all areas, all political areas, and forces us every day to assess new situations and to decide quickly and heartily on measures, especially here in the House. In all of this, I feel that we all have a goal, namely to protect the lives and health of people and to give all people in this country a perspective, including an economic perspective. Security and stability in Austria are a very important prerequisite, and therefore – and it is important for me to stress this point of the agenda – we must never lose sight of our objectives and principles even in this exceptional situation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Never lose sight of this means – and I promise you, as security spokesperson of the People's Party – that: This Federal Government will continue to focus on security. In this context, it is also important to stress the following: Even if we currently have declining numbers of asylum and xenophobia, please do not overlook the situation on the Western Balkans, we do not overlook the situation on the outskirts of Europe, we do not overlook the situation outside Europe and we remain faithful to our government programme! The consistent enforcement of all foreign and asylum laws guarantees a man who is objective, balanced and competent, namely our Interior Minister Karl Nehammer, with his police officers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Since we do not differ from the consistent asylum policy, ladies and gentlemen, we yesterday rejected some of the NEOS' proposals in the Committee on the Interior and tabled some of our own requests. Even because of factual limitations – you know, the flight operation is almost stopped – deportations are currently only limited or not possible. [[Abg. Kickl: But harvest helpers can be flown in!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] In our resolution to the discussion today, the Federal Minister for the Interior is “responsible for “respecting especially” the actual situation of the COVID-19 crisis in relation to persons subject to foreign law” – including in the countries of origin. This does not mean, however, that a basic deportation stop, as required by NEOS, would be the right measure. Ladies and gentlemen, asylum law continues to apply, and with us there will be no general stopover. All of this means that we are in favour of complying with applicable laws and also that people in Austria have a right to health and a right to safety. Our current application for amendments to the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum's procedural law and the Asylum Act is necessary, correct and practical. These changes will allow unaccompanied minor asylum seekers to be transferred not only to a first place in the future, but also to a regional management, of course accompanied by a legal advisor. Also a relaxed accommodation of asylum seekers in the respective quarters, ladies and gentlemen, is already a reality on the basis of the directives already in force, also taking into account the already reinforced hygiene measures. Let's save our lives together! – This is the motto of these weeks, these months. However, this should be valid in all areas, accompanied by clear rules, with the help of which asylum and foreign rights are consistently implemented with respect and reason even in these challenging days. We have promised the Austrians that, ladies and gentlemen, a consistent asylum and foreign law and the consistent implementation of the asylum and foreign law. We will also keep this promise in these challenging times – for a healthy Austria and for a safe Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e24778	Member Krisper has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e24799	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! There are several construction sites in the asylum area that we wanted to repair with applications. Like all other people living in Austria, asylum seekers were suddenly faced with huge legal issues, for example whether the deadline for voluntary leave would be interrupted and deportations like in Germany – during the Corona crisis, colleague Mahrer – would not be suspended. We wanted clarity, the government parties did not, they rejected our request. In addition to legal ambiguity, there are other problems that concern only asylum seekers. One of these is the accommodation in large quarters such as in the first reception centre of Traiskirchen, which, Minister of the Interior, has been approved for 1,000 people, but has only a normal capacity for 480 people. At the moment, however, 606 people are staying there, not as coronatically as you seemed to believe in the committee yesterday. For example, in some facilities sanitary facilities are accessible only to 40 people. In particular, it is difficult to keep minimum distances when eating food in narrow windows. There one creates breeding sites for Corona and, of course, infected people appear, and then, as in Bergheim and Traiskirchen, quarantine is imposed on all hundreds of people there. Such great danger spots and quarantines for so many people could have been prevented, and now it is important to repair this status quo, and therefore In our request, we have called for the division of asylum seekers located in the Federal Service Offices to be divided into several locations to protect both the residents and the staff working there as well as, dear FPÖ, the entire population from infection with Corona. There was nothing out of this request, ÖVP and Greens have postponed with the FPÖ. Our request, which wanted to ensure the fundamental foundations of asylum law, was also postponed: it was possible to apply for asylum even in Corona. That such clarification is necessary is a cause for mourning for our rule of law, but it has been the case since the Health Minister's regulations and all the more since the appearance of an ominous, spiritual decree from the Ministry of the Interior, for it clearly states that the asylum application of people without a health certificate at the border is not acceptable. The BMI wanted to make us aware yesterday that it is only an instruction for officials, as the Minister of Health's regulation is to be interpreted. – Whether it's a decision or an order: The content of this document clearly contradicts the right to apply for asylum, thus breaking the Non-Refoulement Command. Mr. Interior Minister, you said yesterday that we would be overrun without this position of fakeasyl weavers. However, at a press conference at the end of March you yourself said that there were currently no more than twelve asylum applications per day, and yesterday in the Committee on the Interior said that no single asylum application has been filed at the border since the entry into force of the Corona Regulation. Therefore, before a potential overload of quarantine capacities, there can be no talk at all, but only a disregard of mandatory international law. Our request only wanted to clarify that the right to asylum still applies and was postponed. We NEOS will continue to work under this Federal Government, in which the Greens in the hostagery of the ÖVP will apparently carry everything – including in the human rights field – for people who have no strong representation, and now try to do so again with two further requests. The first wants to prevent the Austrian Ministry of the Interior from pursuing a project initiated by Mr. Kickl under Turkish Green and now implementing it, namely a state-of-the-art, completely pointless and probably – for according to the Minister of the Interior, Nehammer, we are not allowed to know the figures – expensive out-of-the-sin storage for non-removable asylum seekers in Serbia. That cannot be it, so I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The second request concerns the inhumane conditions in the camps on the Greek islands for years. It doesn't matter who's to blame now. It is good if you, Minister of the Interior, deliver container to Greece, but there are a programme of the European Commission for the unaccompanied children there. The Commission identifies these children, offers them to EU countries and also finances flights to the EU Member States. Such a programme relieves the Greek health system and enables these selected children to escape from a humanitarian crisis and emergency situation that is taking place on EU territory, which is in fact inconceivable – therefore also the European Commission's commitment. So there's an offer that you'd have to make actively. Are you really doing this as a minister of the supposed Christian ÖVP? – Luxembourg has taken up children, Germany wants to absorb more, Portugal has said today that they take children, Slovenia has said today that they take children. It can't be that we don't have a single child under a turquoise-green government! Therefore, I would like to make the following request: Resolution of Deputies Dr. Stephanie Krisper, colleagues on ‘Participation in the EU Commission programme for the reception of refugee children from camps in the Greek islands’ The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for the Interior, is invited to participate in the EU Commission’s programme for the reception of refugee children from camps in the Greek islands.” Finally, on the legislative proposal submitted by the government parties: We will only agree after clarification that legal advice seems to continue to be assured today. – Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[21:25]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e25000	Both applications are properly submitted, sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The Federal Minister for the Interior has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e25024	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, allow me to say that I am pleased that we all see ourselves here healthy. Before I come to my own statements, to amend the BFA Procedure Act and the Asylum Act, allow me to make a few comments on the previous speakers. On the one hand, Mr Einwallner: Thank you to the police I like to pass on because they actually do a great service and are very required. There are more than 46 injured officials, including the history of the Coronavirus period. There was a crime of body injury when the so-called – a completely absurd term – corona parties, where drunks resisted and attacked the police. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] Because there is often the question of why police intervention at Coronavirus parties was possible, a simple answer to it It was always ads, it was always advertisements of concerned citizens. [[Abg. Kickl: Define what a coronavirus party is, on a legal basis!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] These advertisements due to noise have to be checked from the police side, and there has been corresponding intervention and aggressive behaviour towards officials, as has been said, 46 are injured. There were actually 30,000 ads and 3,600 organ-punishment mandates in the period of the corona virus. This may appear a lot at first glance, but is really very little. I can give you a reference number: In 2019, without Coronavirus, there were 6 million ads due to speed violations – compared to 30,000 ads now, while special conditions in the Coronavirus time. You can see that the Austrians, the people who live in Austria, have sensitizedly cooperated, and just to them it is due and, above all, due to the fact that the number of infections is as low as they are now, in the bidigital area. But let me also make a comment. We must not forget one thing, and above all we must not tire of mentioning it: The corona virus has not been eradicated in Austria. We still have infection numbers, even the new measures from 1. May is intended to help us break the infection chains, to prevent a new wave of infection, in order to prevent and stop exactly the images we still have with our southern neighbours, or in Spain or even in Sweden, with triple death rates compared to Austria, as we currently have them. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Mr Krisper has already carried it out: There was a detailed debate in the Committee on the respective situations and questions of Members, including the accommodation of asylum seekers, and I am grateful that the prudent behaviour of officials in the Ministry of the Interior has led to the fact that we can keep the number of infections in the respective institutions as low as possible. We speak of 14 positively tested asylum seekers who need to be treated medically. It's another person sick, and yes, it's true here, too, to say – my condolences to the family –: A person died because she also had a severe predisease. However, the low number of infected people shows that the measures that have been put in place have been the right ones to prevent a major disaster. That is exactly the objective of all the measures that all of us as Austrians and Austrians who live in Austria complain about. And yes, I'm just as happy as you are that we can find one: On 30.4. at 24 o'clock end the starting limits. It also applies to the 1-metre safety distance, the mouth-nose protection, the hand hygiene that is important, but everything else we can leave at least now, temporarily, as long as the numbers are the way they are currently developing. Together, we all continue to make a contribution in such a way that it remains the same! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another comment, because this has also been mentioned, on the subject of Greece and why we do not include unaccompanied minors in Austria: Ladies and gentlemen, the Austrian Federal Government has a very clear line, which means: There is a need for strong external border protection of the European Union, but also for local aid. I signed a contract with the Greek Minister for Migration today: Austria supports Greece with 181 housing and sanitary containers, and they are needed more urgently than ever. A fire broke out on one of the islands where asylum seekers, migrants and migrants are housed, and ten containers were destroyed. The Greek Minister of Migration has thanked for this immediate assistance. Our cooperation is close, on the one hand, in external border protection – you know, we had a Cobra special unit with a armored vehicle on the ground – on the other hand, in helping where it is necessary, and this is shown by the fact that we want to improve the living situation of the people there and will continue to improve it. We think it is a false signal to bring thumbs high, thumbs down unaccompanied minors to Europe, to the mainland. It is better to help there on site and create circumstances that are worth living. That's what I say as a father of two children. The pictures we see are unbearable, you're right with your criticism. We are doing all we can to improve the situation there, and I am confident that the Greek Government is very interested in it – it is a new one – that it will actually implement it, as well as the European Commission and the European Union as a whole. This is where solidarity is implemented. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] One more thing, because it was a particularly moving moment for me: Our Cobra special unit was with the Greek special unit on site and has patrolled at the border fence. A Turkish special unit was on the other hand and always reflected when the Austrian police were in the case with the Greek colleagues on the spot, and there came provocations from Turkish side. The members of the Turkish Special Unit cried over: What are you doing?; go back to your country, that's not your border, and our Cobra special unit has called back: That's probably our border! That is Europe, and that is also the Austrian border! – A great thanks to the officials for their commitment! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] This reaction by the Austrian police has caused a great sensation in Greece, and the Greek Minister of Migration has once again assured me that this form of European solidarity is exemplary and is also a strong sign for Greece, which was so called for at this time. Now on the amendment of the BFA Procedure Act and the Asylum Act within the framework of the 7th Act. COVID-19 legislation, which is being adopted today in the National Council. These amendments to the BFA Procedure Act and to the Asylum Act are therefore necessary because we want to protect those concerned. What do I mean by that? – The BFA Procedures Act is to be amended to ensure the necessary flexibility in the case of covid-19-related closures of initial outlets. Additional information: The first recording site of Traiskirchen is currently closed by the end of April due to corona virus cases at that time. That is, this flexibility is necessary because it actually becomes visible in practice. As a result of the planned change that minors can also be transferred to regional and foreign offices of the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum, there is no change in the legal status of those. All procedural guarantees for minors continue to be guaranteed, there is no deterioration in comparison to the previous legal situation – I believe this is important – because the minors can now make their submissions in regional and foreign offices of the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum. This is – it is important to me to say that – like all the laws that we have passed in connection with Covid-19 have an expiry date and in this case apply until 31. It shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and in the Official Journal of the European Union. In addition, the asylum law should also be temporarily amended: Requests for extension of the residence permit ‘Residence rights of special protection’ should not only be able to be made personally to the Authority, but also postally and electronically. They see that this measure also serves on the one hand staff on the ground, but also applicants. [[Abg. Vogl:... comes again Corona!]] Ladies and gentlemen! All I've presented to you now is in the sign of the corona virus. I think they are sensible measures, and I ask for your consent. They thus protect, as has been said, the staff on the one hand, and on the other, the applicants on the other. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e25121	Member of the Amesbauer has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e25142	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Yes, of course, Mr Krisper and Mr NEOS have to be rejected, namely that we should suspend deportations for some reason; of course, this is not possible at all. We have an exceptional situation, but one thing is clear: The rule of law must be sufficiently done, and lastly legally negative asylum seekers must, of course, be taken out of the country after appropriate negative corona testing, if possible and if this is so agreed with the other countries. I do not understand at all that there are now some excuses to stop carrying out deportations, because if harvest helpers can be flown into Austria, it will also be possible to fly out certain rulers. This must be ensured, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The problem of asylum has not disappeared, although we are always assured, there are almost no asylum applications. A few figures: We currently have over 25 000 open asylum procedures in Austria, the main part of which is in second instance. The Minister of the Interior has also announced yesterday in the Committee on the Interior that there are estimates of his place of business, according to which around 110 000 migrants are currently moving and staying on the alleged Balkan route closed alone by Sebastian Kurz. So that's fact once. New illegal immigrants in Austria are also constantly being attacked, including in Styria. It was not until Sunday that twelve men between 16 and 30 years of age, from Egypt and Iraq, were taken up in Graz, who were sent to Austria by tractors via Croatia, via Slovenia. So the tractors continue to carry on their business, and it is our task that we ensure the rule of law that we really close the borders – especially at the beginning of the corona crisis – that we secure the borders now, that we fight the tow and that we pursue, above all, a proper, rule-of-law, consistent asylum policy, and always, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It was also remarkable in the last few weeks that from the bright sky in the Styria, also in my district, the report has appeared that the asylum quarter in Steinhaus am Semmering, which was closed by Herbert Kickl at that time, is being reactivated. In Leoben too, so-called preparation measures for an asylum quarter were taken in the Baumax Hall, which provides space for 150 people, in order to lock it up as an emergency facility. There were then objections that nothing was planned and that it would not be safe at all. – However, it is already funny when, at the same time, the maintainer company ORS operates over the Internet job registrations, at a time when the Ministry of the Interior had already demented a planned occupation. Housemasters, day-/night-porters, nurses, cleaning staff, refugee caretakers, and psychologists were sought. So that's very, very exciting. We don't want these large quarters in the Styria! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, one last point, because Mr Einwallner referred to it, but you too, Minister of the Interior: I really ask you to communicate clearly the measures that are being put in place, because it has now come to the conclusion that much that was perceived as a valid law in public was not at all that way, but that it had a maximum of recommendation character. This concerns meetings in the private sector, but this also concerns the fact that if you move outdoors in public places, you do not have to justify them. I would also like to say that: We are proud of our police officers, who always do good work, but also in this exceptional state of affairs excellent work – a great thanks to all the police! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Their unclear form of communication, which leads to the chancellor's speech and his government fighters being often interpreted as a valid law, the panic and the targeted fear-making, which has now also become known – the Chancellor wishes people to believe that the lives of parents and grandparents are threatened – all of this leads to people being unsure and police controls that no one can understand. For example, shopping bags were checked to see if only for the daily, vital needs were purchased. - This is not the task of the police. It even came to warning shots because the safety gap was allegedly not observed. – It can't be anything. It has also become known now, please, again, that is in a very current press release that is recommended that the new, from 1. In May there will also be private compliance, and there will be no “prior” police controls in the private sector. Dear Minister of the Interior, please make this clear as soon as possible – the word is deeply disturbing to me for the moment – because the police have lost nothing at all on suspicion in a private apartment! That's not what the police want, it's not their job, nor have the people in Austria deserved to be suspected of being generalized.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e25210	The honourable Member has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e25236	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Due to the strong presence of the Corona crisis, the humanitarian disaster in the refugee camps on the Turkish-Greek border has come into the background – out of sight, out of sense; in the truest sense of the word. However, the situation in the camps has not improved due to the Covid-19 Pandemic, quite the contrary, it is becoming a humanitarian and health disaster. In the Moria camp alone, 20,000 people live together in the narrowest places under the most adverse conditions: The water supply is not or hardly given, 100 people share a toilet, mask requirement and distance rules, as we know them, are not possible in the camps, conditions for washing hands are not even given. People are generally weakened due to the situation, so it is important to place a sign just in the corona crisis so that the corona virus cannot spread in the refugee camps like a running fire. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] Mr. Minister, housing and sanitary containers may be a good first solidarity aid, but that is definitely too little. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] Meanwhile, Mr Krisper has already mentioned that EU countries have joined forces to bring 1,600 refugee children, unaccompanied minors from these camps to Europe on the Greek islands. 1 600 adolescents: Germany, our neighbouring country, and Luxembourg have already carried out the first transports of these young people to Central Europe, and seven EU countries and Switzerland have agreed to do so – the black and green Austria is not there, and this is very embarrassing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have read in the government programme that it says that there will be “no initiatives in the direction of distribution rules” of refugees. – You do not have to do this either, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, you do not need to take an initiative, you only need to join those countries that have already shown that it is possible and that it is urgently necessary not to leave Greece alone, to clear these camps and to avoid the humanitarian situation, in particular, becoming a health disaster. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] I really wish – and I mean it exactly as I say; I really wish it – that the green party could prevail in this question in the government, would not throw their ideals overboard, Vice-chanc Kogler could make his “private opinion” that the children should be taken from these camps, that they would make a government opinion and we would finally become active there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Many mayors have agreed to include families and children in their communities. So let's get active! Ladies and gentlemen, we know that in the camps on the Greek islands alone, about 2,000 unaccompanied minors live – nine out of ten are under 14 years of age. If we put together a sign and support this request from NEOS, let's get the children out of there! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e25312	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e25333	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! The past few weeks have been a powerful act for almost all people in the world, for, as the government has repeatedly stressed, all the people who live in Austria. These people also include refugees, protection seekers, asylum seekers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] Over the past few weeks, they have spent in great uncertainty, in concern for themselves, their health, their families, in concern for their families, in concern for their future – in large quarters with hundreds of others and in part for weeks in quarantines like in Traiskirchen, with contradictory and partly shortened information regarding their rights and freedoms. That – in all clarity – should not have happened. [[Congratulations on the Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] That's where we can and we need to get better. We are on a long way, there are weeks of restrictions and distance ahead, including hundreds of people seeking protection in the first recording centres. Meanwhile, a number of quarters are available in federal care facilities, which would allow better accommodation, better care and better care. There are communities that are willing to include people in their communities; I almost believe – I am sure – that you all know one or the other of these communities. There are committed individuals who offer their solidarity. This is not only for those seeking protection who already live in Austria, but also for those people – families, children, the sick – who live in Moria and other Greek refugee camps. These camps are a shame and must be closed! [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and SPÖ and NEOS representatives.]] No one who or who has left in recent weeks, washed and disinfected his hands with warm water, restricted social contact and knew himself in safety and health at the end of the day, would like to imagine the conditions under which other people, other families, other children must survive because their escape routes – forgive them! – have led to this political Rue de la Gack. In this sense I will and we will continue to use all our possibilities to evacuate these camps. [[Call the SPÖ: Then it's true!]] [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: With all possibilities?]] – With all our possibilities. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] This is not possible from today to tomorrow, but we will continue to work on every way that these camps are closed, that those seeking protection are accommodated in an environment where they are perceived in their humanity and that offers them future prospects, and that they should respect asylum law, and especially in this crisis. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: I would be ashamed and angry!]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Yes, I agree!]] This is not possible from today to tomorrow, and we cannot implement everything today, but we will vote for it and we will talk about it. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: When it comes to it, leave it out!]] There are not just one moment, there are many ways. We were politically clear, we will continue to speak in this political clarity on this issue.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e25461	Mr Minnich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e25487	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear spectator at home in front of the TV screens! Today, by a large majority, we decide on the 7th. COVID-19 Act. In particular, I would like to point out the provisions that our security spokesman and the Minister of the Interior have already highlighted: that unaccompanied minor asylum seekers will not only be able to be placed in first place in order not to be overcrowded and asylum seekers thus to be protected health. This will make necessary changes as a result of the corona crisis. Even during the Covid crisis, Austrian asylum and foreign law is not exposed. The health situation must be taken into account in all measures, in accommodation facilities and in deportation decisions. Yesterday, our Federal Minister Karl Nehammer referred to the Committee on the Interior on the various challenges and tasks of police officers working to assist health authorities. A warm thanks goes to all these police officers who are particularly demanded and burdened during this difficult time and who play an important role in the fight against Corona. Thank you, Minister of State, for the clear statements, for stability, for security and for saving many lives! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to address briefly the two motions for resolutions tabled by Mrs Krisper, whom we do not agree with. First of all, to the deportation centre in Serbia: As regards the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Krisper on the termination of the work agreement on a deportation camp in Serbia, it is more to be seen as populist. I would like to point out here the parliamentary answer to Mr Nehammer's question on 14 April 2020. No further explanations are necessary. This is an open institution ensuring access to human rights organisations. Secondly, to take up refugee children: It is not a question of setting populist signals, as Mr Krisper called for in the motion for a resolution, but our aim must be to help on the ground, just as the Federal Government and the Minister of the Interior have already said and started in Greece a few weeks ago: Support for Greece in terms of human and financial resources. As the Minister of the Interior has already said, 181 residential and sanitary containers, including beds and medical staff, are on their way to Greece to alleviate the situation on-site in Greece. Until 26.4., police officers from Cobra with a armored vehicle were in use to assist Greek colleagues at our common EU external border. Ladies and gentlemen! This is living solidarity in Europe! Thank you for that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our Ministry of Interior is in close contact with the Greek Ministry of Integration to be able to put in place all important measures here at any time. We are not concerned with taking up asylum seekers on time, but our government is clearly in favour of solidarity in the EU and on-the-spot assistance. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e25546	Member Christian Ries has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e25570	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! We have agreed to this temporary request for an electronic or postal extension of the residence permit under the Asylum Act. This is because it is also for the protection of officials and because it is usually the case that there is already a residence permit in accordance with a settled procedure. We can accept this as a liberal. What we cannot accept is what the EU has now declared to be an excuse for asylum. The glorious idea was to be able to bring in and deal with asylum applications, i.e. first applications, at least until the end of the Covid crisis. That, ladies and gentlemen, is something you really cannot support for someone who deals with this matter. Yes, the EU Commission is moving so far as to say that it is far from the reality of life. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Why do I say that? . The Commission does not consider it necessary for an asylum seekers to be questioned in person, but without first and follow-up surveys, there are unexpected possibilities. There is a lot of lies to be opened, and free-invented life stories can be given for the best, and beautiful, promising templates can be transmitted. This does not open the way to human rights, but it creates something else. In this way the tractor industry is being called upon to extend its activities by electronic means as well. With such proposals, you make yourself the birth aid of cyber-driving. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's why my prognosis is: Within a short period of time, you will be able to acquire impeccable CVs, fed with great pictures, which will then serve proof. Also the delivery of fingerprints, i.e. the recording in Eurodac, could then take place later, one thinks. That is, in the first procedure, it is not possible to make a comparison with other EU countries, whether the same person is not already involved with another story and with a different name. Such advances as the EU Commission is doing here are ideas from “thousands of a night”. The dream destinations of the towing world – and Austria is part of it – could not be given any greater bear service at all. It is incredible how the EU, which we heard nothing about at the beginning of the Covid crisis, is unwittingly promoting towling. Ladies and gentlemen! With us, there will be no such kneeshots in refugee policy, and we assume that this will not find a majority in the House at all. Dear Minister of the Interior! Also make it clear to your coalition partner that there will be no such solutions for Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e25619	Mr Hofinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e25640	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we are living at a special time, and what applies to health care and to the economy or to food safety also applies to security in the country, to the right of foreigners and asylum, namely, that one must face and adapt to the challenges in the crisis. In the same way, the Federal Ministry of the Interior makes it during the compulsive returns: It reviews the destinations of the target countries precisely for respect for human rights and for Corona, and each deportation is preceded by a non-refoulement review. On the side of our government groups, I would like to point out that it is very important to us, and also in such a special time, to carry out the implementation of asylum and xenophobia law, as it is also in other countries where there is no suspension or suspension of deportations. In addition, it must be noted that many asylum seekers want to return home to their families at this particular time. What does it actually look like in practice right now? – Due to the limited freedom of travel, the situation at airports and restrictions on third countries, it is almost impossible, or only very limited, to carry out deportations at all. Therefore, unlike NEOS, we do not see it as such that legal changes need to be made here, nor if there is no end to the crisis. We have tabled an own-initiative proposal, and I would like to table the following amendment to the Committee's report on this subject: [[Quoted print version removed]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Allow me to thank the police who, in this challenging time, are doing very good work and are mastering their job, and also the Federal Minister Karl Nehammer and all the servants of the Federal Ministry of the Interior, who play a central role in this situation. The crisis unit is also located there, and that is why they have a very important role to play. A warm thank you! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Our Federal Minister has already mentioned it: The relatively small number of ads makes us aware that the mutual interaction between the population and the police really works very well. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[22:00]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e25766	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Ernst-Dziedzic is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e25791	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I don't know who ever bothered you to read the green electoral program. It is – hardly surprising and, from my point of view, unfortunate – not equivalent to the government programme. [[Abg. Loacker: You are the only ones who point to...!]] I have very often made clear the position of the Greens who are finding themselves there in the last few weeks, and my previous speaker from the Greens has done so here today, too, unmistakably at the speaker's desk. As far as migration and asylum are concerned, it has long been known that there is a small amount of cut between the coalition partners. That's the truth. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I would just like to look at two different assessments which can be found in the NEOS applications. From our point of view, Afghanistan is not safe, as UNHCR says. The distribution of refugees would be useful and necessary and Austria should participate in the alliance of the Willful in Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] The fact that asylum is a human right is not only the position of the Greens, but European law. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In relation to deportation centres in Serbia, however, there is quite an agreement with the ÖVP beyond the green position, namely that the idea of former Minister of the Interior Kickl cannot be implemented in this form. Why? – Because we have agreed on an examination of whether or under what conditions such agreements are at all possible. These conditions are not currently met because Serbia is not a safe third country. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Kickl and the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] Very soon: There is no agreement within the coalition on a European distribution mechanism, but an agreement on a truly committed commitment to a common European solution to the asylum issue – more assistance on the ground and humanitarian aid outside Europe or in Europe, such as logistical, medical and financial support for Greece, which is also ongoing. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] We have not been able to reverse the non-signatory of the UN Migration Pact, but we have agreed on a general government migration strategy, including coordination and implementation of these with other countries. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] Similarly, yesterday in the Committee on the Interior, there was an amendment concerning the deportations to Afghanistan, which is considering the Covid crisis. And yes, that the right to asylum continues to apply, that is fact, which the European Commission has just recently clarified. And no, especially in the area of human rights, migration and asylum, there is no continuation of the enemy policy with us Greens. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Scherak.]] What exists with us is an unbroken commitment to fundamental rights and certainly no deviation from international law. I understand opposition work, but it's already dared to claim that our commitment would be less. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: This is exactly what you are carrying!]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] That is the opposite! [[New call of the abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] In the opposition it is easier to put on what corresponds to your own position. In a coalition, one must actually negotiate and embrace the democratic compromise, which nevertheless reflects exactly what is important to both coalition partners. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Reisinger]] [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] If we perhaps work more together here in the future instead of constantly focusing on what is not going on, this commitment will certainly also be more efficient. In one case, I am right to NEOS, but also the SPÖ at this point, namely that there is a great deal of pressure and commitment in these areas. We are also continuing to continue this commitment within the ranks of the Greens, to seek the dialogue with the Coalition Partner and to find decent solutions that we can agree on in a majority way. In this sense: I am grateful for this pressure, but you will also understand that, as a green person, we do not leave the path of fundamental rights, but on the contrary, just as a smaller coalition partner of the ÖVP all the more vehementer on it. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: You've already done that!]] That we will continue to do so, you can rely on it!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e25935	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the reports of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which I shall make separately on each item on the agenda. Before we vote, I may ask the club members if it is okay on the part of the clubs; I stick to what was made out in the presidency. - I see that's the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on Agenda item 29. Firstly, we shall come to the vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 148 of the additions to the motion for a resolution 411/A(E). I would ask the ladies and gentlemen to give their consent to a corresponding sign. – This is the majority, therefore adopted. We shall also vote on the resolution on 'Containing the right to asylum and to the right of foreigners' annexed to the Committee' report 148 of the Supplements. I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this vote. – This is the majority, therefore adopted. [[34/E]] We shall vote on agenda item 30: Draft concerning 7. COVID-19 Act in 149 of the Supplements. Mr Mahrer, Mr El-Nagashi, Mr Hizu have tabled an amendment. I must first vote on the amendment and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Mahrer, Mr El-Nagashi, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment concerning the amendment of the title of law. Whoever gives his consent, I may request the consent. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on and received as part of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This too is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I should also like to ask the ladies and gentlemen, at the third reading, to give their agreement. – This is also unanimously accepted. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Krisper, colleagues and colleagues on the termination of the work agreement on a deportation camp in Serbia. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Krisper, colleagues, on 'Participation in the EU Commission programme for the reception of refugee children from camps in the Greek islands'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. [[22:09:53]] 31. Point First reading: Request by Mr Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, Members of Parliament, concerning a federal law amending the equal treatment law and the law on the equal treatment commission and the law on equal treatment (382/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e26076	We arrive at the 31st. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Mrs Deckenbacher is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e26104	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Dear spectators in front of the screens! On the application submitted by the SPÖ, which aims, inter alia, to amend the equal treatment law, it should be noted that it is now intended to intensify the existing prohibition of discrimination – for equal treatment without any difference with regard to sex or ethnicity – by further extension in relation to age and sexual orientation. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: A long overdue extension!]] The focus is on providing the persons concerned with goods and services available to the public, including the housing. This therefore essentially concerns entrepreneurship. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] This has often been discussed in the House, and I should also like to point out once again that the EIA has complied with and implemented all the equality directives that have been adopted at EU level. That's good and that's right. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Heinisch-Hosek and Vogl.]] For a serious discussion, however, we also need information: What is the situation in other EU countries? What is the real need for an extension of the State of Discrimination? We need to evaluate existing EU legislation in advance. An EU directive, which is exactly the same as that, has been on ice at EU level since 2008, and probably not without reason. Laws must therefore be necessary, appropriate and proportionate. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I don't know what to do. Let me give you a few examples to see what demands and the effects there are: Family weeks and children's weeks in hotels are to be set because there must be no more special programs for age groups. No more top youth tickets, no more senior rates – age discrimination! [[Call the SPÖ: That's nonsense!]] Yes, and even some of your colleagues say: Well, for these examples – and there are many more – you just have to find exceptions. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You're talking nonsense!]] I wonder, If I already have to write all the exceptions to a law, why do I need that? If it is not necessary to make a law, then it is necessary not to make law. This would probably be written to you by the great theorist of Montesquieu's division of violence in your diary. Instead of levelling-up, we stand for private autonomy, freedom of conscience, freedom of ownership, business freedom. Finally, I would like to say: Of course, we reject all forms of discrimination and are clearly in favour of protection of discrimination. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] This is not a contradiction, but it is important for a self-determined society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e26213	Mrs Schatter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e26234	We are discussing today – Mr Deckenbacher has already mentioned it – our request for levelling-up at first reading. I think I have to judge a lot because you seem to have not understood a lot correctly. It is not a question of intensifying anti-discrimination law. It is a question of extending the protection of discrimination, and that is already a difference. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We mean and we demand with levelling-up the extension of protection against discrimination due to sexual orientation and age to the field outside the working world. There is already extensive protection against discrimination in the field of the working world. This exists, and the law has created a clear directive against inequality due to ethnicity, gender, age, sexual orientation or disability. It prohibits, as it were, discrimination against workers in the workplace as a result of these components. However, there is a need for action in all other areas of life. In other words, when a homosexual couple is referred from a local because of the sexual orientation, when two lesbian moms with two children are denied a discounted family ticket at a leisure facility, or when people are refused to rent an apartment because of sexual orientation or age – whether homosexual or similar – then it is currently possible in Austria without consequences, and therefore there is also a need for action. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mrs Deckenbacher, you said there were no occasions. All the examples I have just mentioned are case studies that have been proved. Just another example: In a 2013 EU-wide LGBT survey, one third of respondents stated that they had been discriminated against at least once in the past 12 months in the field outside the working world due to sexual orientation. There is indeed a need for action, it is urgently given. That is not why – and I have already mentioned this – the first attempt we are taking in order to ensure this protection of discrimination. So far, it has always failed with FPÖ and ÖVP. [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] And yes – and you seem to have not finished reading it, Mrs Colleague: There are derogations, and these are also set out in our request accordingly. You will find these derogations when, for example, it comes to offering cheaper tickets for students, students, seniors and seniors. It will also be possible to implement children's hotels, adult hotels and the like in the future. This is set out in the derogations. But it should no longer be possible that someone cannot rent an apartment because he is lesbian or gay or too old; and there we want to act. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The black and green government program has not planned a levelling-up. The Minister for Women said in an interview that this point is not in the government programme and therefore is not implemented. Yes, this is very disappointing in many respects, ladies and gentlemen, but I think a lot of things that are happening at the moment and that we are discussing are not in the government programme and yet we are working together on it. That is why I would like to ask you, and above all also the representatives of the ÖVP and FPÖ, to work with us in the Committee on Real Protection for the extension of protection against discrimination due to age and sexual orientation. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e26307	My ringing has once again motivated the understanding in the hall, in order to give respect to the speaker, nothing else. Mrs Ecker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e26336	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am quite at SPÖ when it comes to discrimination in relation to age. When it comes to the older generation, it's just like saying: There must be no discrimination in social life! But let us also be honest: It is up to all of us, it is because of the overall social responsibility and it is in our actions as individuals. In the field of working life, there are already good laws that have been decided to protect against discrimination. This request concerns the provision of services and goods. The desired implementation already raises some questions – we have already heard it –: What about offers for special target groups? Is there any free tickets then? Are there any special price reductions? Is that possible for the providers, for the companies? Let's be honest again: If a person does not want to provide a service in the service sector, he will not mention the grounds for discrimination. Then many applicants will be there for an apartment, then the apartment will be already forgiven. There are many excuses in these areas that we all know. Especially in terms of living – because this is also explicitly so inside of the application – there are many examples that are still subject to discrimination for me, if families with several children do not receive a home or find a new apartment very difficult, because the one or the landlord fears in the noise, or fears that the financial circumstances may not hold. At present, a young family, the mother in Karenz, the father unemployed, does not find a home at all, because she already fails at the beginning, because she cannot bring proof of income and can certainly not bring any longer in the current situation. At present – and this is also subject to discrimination for me and is certainly well meant for health – the life of the older generation, living in a retirement home, characterized by loneliness and isolation, is well meant, but, as I believe, not always well done. The EU is not discussing – or discussing any more – because the directive is still not ready, and I think it will be discussed in the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e26376	Members of Dziedzic –Ernst-Dziedzic have been reported to speak, so much time must be. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e26398	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, to the colleague Ecker: We do not make any difference who is allowed to be discriminated against and who does not, discrimination protection must apply to all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervening calls from Members Amesbauer and Hafenecker.]] - That's one thing. Dear SPÖ, thank you for the request! I can remember how the Greens made exactly the same requests during the previous and previous legislative period. There you still put the chancellor, and it was not possible for you to anchor this discrimination protection outside of working life accordingly. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – It is also important to me to say that. In principle: There is a reason why the Greens -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e26454	I'm really asking for a little rest! There are only two speakers.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e26469	It's the truth: It was not possible for you as Chancellor Party – I like to repeat – to anchor the protection of discrimination outside working life. - That's it. There is one reason why the Greens not only have a parity but also to the 25 years of the Green Andersrum sub-organisation, and it is no coincidence that there is one here in the Green Parliament Club, in the National Council Club, four queere, speak LGBTI-persons, as well as in the Federal Council. That is, our commitment is, I think, undisputed, and we have been more often at one or another rally when it came to equality of LGBT individuals or the rejection of any discrimination due to sexual orientation. What have we agreed on in the course of the negotiations with the ÖVP? . We agreed that there will be an extension of protection against discrimination. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer]] This is the first reading today, we now have enough time to debate, and we will surely find a good solution, how we will propose discrimination in Austria regardless of which group someone belongs to. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In this sense, good negotiation, and, Yannick – because you're right behind me – we'll stay there in conversation instead of directing each other to what's not going on! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e26518	Mrs Shetty is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e26539	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! First of all, thank you very much to the SPÖ for this initiative. I am already looking forward to the discussion in the Committee and then perhaps at the second reading here in plenary. I actually did not want to speak on this point at this late hour. But what the Greens have listed here today is such a naughtiness that a few more words need to be said about this.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e26569	Please take back the word “Frequent ”!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e26585	I would like to take back the word “breakiness. ” – I find it absolutely unworthy how the Greens behaved here today, and I also explain to everyone who may not have listened so attentively to what happened earlier: Today, we have made a request that the ban on blood donation be lifted for men who have sex with men. ÖVP and Greens have lowered this request. - Fair enough, it's okay. They have made a further request, which will now ensure that a working group is set up to evaluate whether or not the blood donation ban is to be removed at some point. . Well, we have agreed to this proposal as a minimum compromise. Then one hour ago, a colleague sends me a screenshot of a Facebook post of the Greens with the text – quote –: What a day! The Blood Donation Prohibition for Swallow men could fall. - Quote. There is a link to Mr Dziedzic's speech. Dear Green, I have tried to be binding this morning, but I am now saying it clearly: The LGBT community has been sold for decades for stupid, and the community looks through this cheap, this bold, this insanity-free PR-gag! [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] In the case of blood donation: fallen down; in rehabilitation for homosexual victims of criminal law: fallen down; in the repair of the registered partnership: fallen down; in the implementation of the VfGH judgment for intersex persons: happened. – We note that LGBT people do not have a priority for the Greens in this government. That's bad, but stand by it and don't spread falsehoods!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e26642	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 382/A to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. The agenda is exhausted. [[Unrest in the hall.]] – May I ask for attention? [[22:27:12]] Vote on a request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e26687	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by the honourable Members. Lightenfried, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Committee on Reporting on Request 60/A for a deadline until 30 June. In April 2020, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. [[22:27:32]] Assignment of the application for the establishment of an investigation committee
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e26715	According to § 33 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, I agree with Amendment No 2/US by Mr Kickl, colleagues and colleagues, concerning the establishment of an Examining Committee, ‘COVID19 Investigation Committee’, to the Rules of Procedure Committee. [[22:27:53]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-28-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00027_d8e26742	I would like to make a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the official minutes on agenda items 1, 3 and 4, 7, 11 to 13, 17, 20 to 27 and 29 and 30 in order to be deemed approved at the end of the sitting. [[Unrest in the hall.]] – I would like to draw your attention very briefly, so that the right thing is really in the record! I come to the lecture: Agenda item 1: ‘The amendment Annex 1/1 is amended as regards Article 4(259)(1). 1 rejected [...]. The amendment Annex 1/2 is rejected [...]. The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal, will be adopted in 120 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendment proposal Supplement 1/1 – except for Article 4 § 259 para. 1 – adopted in separate vote in second reading [...] and in third reading [...].’ Agenda item 3: ‘The draft law shall be adopted in the second and third readings in 122 of the Supplements in accordance with the Committee’. Agenda item 4: ‘The draft law will be adopted in the second and third readings in 123 of the Supplements in accordance with the Committee’. Agenda item 7: ‘The draft law is adopted in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 126 of the Supplements, taking into account amendments to Supplement 7/1 and Supplement 7/3 in second and third readings [...].’ Agenda item 11: ‘The draft law, in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 129 of the Supplements, shall be adopted in second and third reading, taking into account the amendment proposal for a Supplement 11/1.’ Agenda item 12: ‘The draft law is adopted in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 131 of the second and third reading supplements [...]. [...] The motion for a resolution Supplement 12/2 EA is hereby adopted.’ Agenda item 13: ‘The referral request Supplement 13/I is rejected [...]. The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal, is adopted in a separate vote in 132 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendment amendment Annex 13/1 and at second reading [...] and in third reading [...].’ Agenda item 17: ‘The referral request Supplement 17/I is rejected [...]. The draft law will be adopted in the second and third reading in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 136 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendment proposal for a Supplement 17/1.’ Agenda item 20: ‘The draft law shall be adopted in the second and third reading in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 143 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendment proposal for a supplement 20/2.’ Agenda item 21: ‘The draft law shall be adopted in the second and third readings in 144 of the Supplements to the Committee’. Agenda item 22: ‘The draft law is adopted in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 145 of the second and third reading supplements.’ Agenda item 23: ‘The draft law shall be adopted in the second and third readings in 146 of the Supplements in accordance with the Committee’. Agenda item 24: ‘The draft law, in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 139 of the second reading, shall be adopted in separate vote [...] and in third reading [...].’ Agenda item 25: ‘The amendment Annex 25/1 is rejected [...]. The draft law is adopted in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 140 of the second and third reading supplements.’ Agenda item 26: ‘The resolution attached to the Committee's report 141 of the Supplements shall be adopted [...].’ Agenda item 27: ‘The amendment Annex 27/1 is rejected [...]. The draft law will be adopted in the second and third readings in 142 of the Supplements in accordance with the Committee’s proposal.’ Agenda item 29: ‘The resolution attached to the Committee's report 148 of the Supplements shall be adopted [...].’ Agenda item 30: ‘The draft law shall be adopted in the second and third reading in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 149 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendment proposal for a Supplement 30/3.’ Are objections to the version or to the content of those parts of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. These parts of the Official Protocol are therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. [[22:32:14]] Inflow I am allowed to announce that in today's session, the self-employed have received applications 491/A to 527/A(E). The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 22.32 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
