ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e7875	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Values Representatives of the Federal Government! Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Values of media representatives! Dear spectator at home in front of the televisions! I should like to welcome you very warmly and to declare the meeting open. I should like to point out, first of all, that the staff of the Expedition Facial Vision are issuing to ensure protection in order to comply with the recommendations; there is the possibility of wearing the visor instead of the mask, as the recommendations of the health authorities and the Minister of Health continue to apply. The non-reading parts of the official protocol of the 30th century. Meeting and the Official Protocol of the 31. Meeting of 13. In May 2020, Parliament's management has been disputed and has not been challenged. We sit back in the relaxed seat order, MEPs have also taken place in the gallery. I am allowed to announce that the media representatives also have access to a presidential log in this week, so that we can hopefully make the visual reporting quite satisfactory despite the limitations. [[The representatives of the FPÖ carry buttons at the revers on which are pictured against red-and-white-red background coronaviruses and the inscription “Allianz gegen Coronawahnsinsinn.at – Now it’s enough!”]] For today's session as prevented, MEPs Kira Grünberg, Josef Muchitschund Herbert Kickl, are reported. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e7927	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e8037	I may announce that the ORF will transfer the meeting to ORF 2 as usual until 1 p.m. and then to ORF III until 7.15 p.m. Afterwards, the meeting will be transmitted to the TV library. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e8056	In accordance with § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration of the written question 2064/J by Mr Jörg Leichtfried, colleagues to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany on ‘It takes real help instead of empty promises – the failure of the short government to combat the economic and social crisis consequences’. The orderly treatment of the urgent request will take place at 3 p.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e8077	It is proposed that the debates on points 1 to 5 – including general debate – and 6 and 7 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e8098	Consensus on the design and duration of the debates was reached between the members of the presidential conference. According to § 57 para. 3 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure have been agreed for the present day a day block time of 9.5 ‘Vienna hours’, so that the following speaking times arise: ÖVP 185, SPÖ 128, FPÖ 105, Green 95 and NEOS 76 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for today of those Members who do not belong to a club, each 38 minutes; in addition, their speaking time shall be limited to 5 minutes per debate. For Wednesday, 27th. A day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ was agreed on on May 2020, so that the following speaking times arise: ÖVP 176, SPÖ 122, FPÖ 99, Green 90, NEOS 72 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for that day of those Members who do not belong to a club, each 36 minutes; in addition, their speaking time shall be limited to 5 minutes per debate. For Thursday we have agreed on 8 ‘Vienna hours’; Communication time allocation: 156 minutes for the ÖVP, 108 for the SPÖ, 88 for the FPÖ, 80 for the Greens, 64 for the NEOS. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time of those Members who do not belong to a club, 32 minutes, 5 minutes per debate. The Presidential Conference adopted the following debate on Agenda items 6 and 7: Today: Subdivisions 01 to 06, 10 and 17, then UG 32, UG 12, UG 13, and finally UG 11 and 18. Tomorrow, Wednesday: UG 34, 41 and 43, then UG 14, then UG 33 and 40, UG 42, finally UG 30 and 31. On Thursday: UG 10, then UG 20 and 25, followed by UG 21, 22, 24 and then UG 15, 16, 23, 44 to 46, 51 and 58, as well as text of the Federal Finance Act and other parts of Appendix I, including Annexes II to IV. The final votes to TOP 6 and 7 will then be taken. This is also a written statement to the honourable Member. In any event, the intended breakdowns will be discussed on the same day and the meeting will be suspended thereafter. Resolutions can only be tabled during the debates on the respective breakdowns. The votes on any motions for resolutions tabled shall be taken after the third reading in the order in which they are submitted. The time-limit for government members according to § 57 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure shall not be used. If the 20 minutes exceed for each member of the government responsible for the respective advisory groups, or if the 10 minutes exceed the 10 minutes for each State Secretary responsible for the respective advisory groups, the overdue speaking time shall be taken into account in each case at the time of the respective government group. The speaking time of non-governmental government members or state secretaries shall at least be counted on the time of the respective government group. With the exception of this, the speaking time of the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor in the general debate held under the Budgetary Accompaniment Act shall be as long as it does not exceed the duration of 20 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft and the speaking times that have just been presented. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Let's go into the agenda. [[09:12:49]] 1. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (71, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law, which amends the Foreign Employment Act, the Labour Market Policy Finance Act, the Insolvency Tax Insurance Act, the Construction Workers' Bad Weather Compensation Act, the Construction Workers' Allowance Act, the Family Tax Compensation Act 1967, the Civil Service Law 1979, the Wage Law 1956 and the Environmental Promotion Act (Budget Accompanying Act 2020) (175 d.b.) 2. Point Report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment No 537/A by Mr Gabriel Obernosterer, Mag. Dr. Jakob Schwarz, BA, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Income Tax Act 1988, the Sales Tax Act 1994 and the Sparkling Tax Act 1995 (19. COVID-19 Act (184 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment No 538/A by Mr August Wöginger, Mr Sigrid Maurer, Mr BA, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Federal Act on Accounting (21. COVID-19 Act (185 D.B.) 4. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (110, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Federal Tax Code, the Financial Penal Code, the Federal Law on the Human Resources of the Modernisation of Tax and Customs Administration, the Federal Law on the Examining of Pay-related Charges and Contributions, the Federal Law on the Creation of an Office for the Control of Fraud, the Alcohol Tax Act, the Act on State Aid Enforcement, the Dispensation Act 1970, the Digital Tax Act 2020, the Income Tax Act 1988, the Financial Procuration Act, the Fee Law 1957, the Gambling Law, the Municipal Tax Act 1993, the Account Register and Account Assessment Act, the Motor Vehicle Tax Act, the Standards Tax Act, the Tax Act on Taxation, the Taxation Act 2000, the Tax Act 2000, the Law on the Enforcement of Customs Law, the General Social Insurance Act, the Civil Code, the Construction Workers' Law on Vacations, and the Allowance and Social dumping Law (2. Financial Organisation Reform Act – 2. FORG) (173 d.a.) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment No 452/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Karin Doppelbauer, colleagues and colleagues on transparency in the budget (174, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e8249	We come to points 1 to 5 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Klubobfrau Pamela Rendi-Wagner has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e8281	Mr President. Dear Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! Corona with all its consequences is omnipresent for the population, for all of us for weeks, for months. Corona determines our lives, because the social and, above all, the economic consequences of the lockdown are unmistakable. A budget will be decided here in the House in the next few days. It is the financial plan for this year, for 2020. But what Parliament is supposed to decide what you, Mr Finanzminister, have presented to us, does not in any way reflect this century crisis – while Germany has succeeded: A few weeks ago, Germany was able to present and even decide on a very detailed supplementary budget with a very detailed forecast of less revenue and additional expenditure forecasted for this year due to the crisis. What you are presenting to Parliament, Mr Financier, is particularly lacking: There's a plan missing. There is no plan and there is a lack of perspective, Mr Finanzminister; there is a lack of guidance. It's exactly that: Plan, orientation, perspective – these are the parameters that create confidence, create confidence in the economy, among entrepreneurs, in politics and, of course, in the entire population. Yes, this plan would be most urgent. If we know one thing today, then: that this planlessness was the cause of dramatic consequences which we will still feel until today and probably in the next months and years. It is the consequences of empty promises and unplannedness, of the Federal Government with which we have to fight. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] The consequences of this planlessness, this lack of guidance, are a historical peak of unemployment in Austria, a high level of people reported for short-term work, more than one million people in Austria – by the way: the unemployment rate in Germany is only half as large, Germany has quite certainly experienced the same corona crisis as Austria – and hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs are facing an unclear future and do not know how to survive the next few weeks that will be healthy – if not quickly really come true help. Yes, at press conferences, billions are being juggled almost daily, but as we know at the latest since the "ZIB 2" yesterday, these 38 billion euros, Mr. Finanzminister, have just been awarded 460 million euros – 460 million, a small fraction of the money you have announced in more than 80 press conferences. It is clear from this fact that there is a group and a lot of people in this country who have sleepless nights – not you, Minister of Finance: It is the 550 000 unemployed in this country, the 1.1 million people who are registered for short-term work, the hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs who do not have a clear future ahead of them. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] And the unhappiness, fear and uncertainty are growing in Austria from day to day. They are people like a Vienna flower dealer who has so far applied twice for support from the hardening fund, has not received a cent from this hardening fund for weeks, and in an interview a few days ago only one says: “I wish the government had finally “holds what it promises.” – Or a young Salzburg entrepreneur who said in a print interview, she was surprised, despite the many great promises on her way to the support of many bureaucratic obstacles; or a host from Vienna Landstraße, who recently said on radio, on Ö1, that he had not seen a single cent so far. A study by the University of Vienna proves this: More than 1,000 small and medium-sized enterprises were surveyed, and more than 70 percent give the government only a sufficient or even a insufficient amount of support. Only 2 per cent consider your assistance that you have given in recent weeks to be very good. – This is not a good witness, dear Federal Government! Yes, it finally needs real help, real help instead of empty promises, dear Mr. Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It needs real help for more than half a million unemployed, it needs real help for hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs, for thousands of single parents in our country and many more. For all of them, it needs this real help, and it doesn't need it in a few months, no, it would have used it for a long time, at the latest now it needs this real help. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is a critical moment, and if you are not now determined, clear and opposed with plan and orientation, then – and this is a little one-off – a negative spiral of unemployment and economic downturn. The longer you wait, the faster this spiral moves down and the harder it is to stop this spiral down, and the more means you will also need to stop the means of taxpayers in order to stop this negative spiral – and that must not happen, dear Federal Government! [[Complementary by the SPÖ.]] What it needs now is a plan, it is political determination and it is competence, and these competent voices tell us that in Austria it needs the largest investment and employment package in the history of the Second Republic. - When, if not now?- Oh, my God! We must finally reduce the taxes on workers so that they can have more money for daily life and thus a higher purchasing power, boost consumption and thus support the economy. We must increase unemployment benefit to 70 percent of the net replacement rate – an important human gesture, but also a necessary economic gesture, Mr. Finance Minister. With smart and sustainable investment in growth and employment, we must finally put a stop to this negative spiral, this largest social and economic crisis in our country. All of this should be reflected in the budget you have presented today, but unfortunately all of this is not reflected in your figures. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One more thing: We're not an island either. Austria and the Austrian economy are not alone, are not an isolated island, so as Austria and Austria, we must also have a high and great interest in an EU-wide investment plan for European reconstruction, in a common reconstruction – not from a purely European solidarity act; from my point of view, because I always think solidarity, but from your point of view, perhaps economic reason would be the more attractive momentum. I do not see that either, Mr. Finanzminister. It should be in our very best interest that all the countries of Europe are stable through this crisis. That's an hour's commandment. To act as if we were not dealing with the economy in Italy in Austria is small-spirited, short-sighted and economically simply unreasonable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! It now needs responsible policy, and responsible policy means to show exactly these links, to explain these links to people. This is the task of a government, and this is the task of responsible European Heads of Government. Austria should be part of the solution and not part of the problem, because the European future is also the Austrian future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e8395	The clubman of the ÖVP August Wöginger speaks. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e8420	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it is true that we are debating the 2020 budget in a very exceptional situation. However, I would like to make two comments on my previous speaker. I meet many people in my constituency who are happy and grateful for the fact that until now - - - you seem to be not going to the people, for otherwise you would hear that too, ladies and gentlemen. [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Amesbauer:... ÖVP folksnah... new!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I always take it very seriously what the people tell me, and there are a lot of people who are happy and grateful for the fact that Austria has so far come very well through this health crisis – and we are talking here about a global pandemic – and I do not understand why a former Minister of Health has not lost a word about it. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Matznetter:... Government crisis!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Secondly, you are talking about economic reason, you are demanding the largest aid package of the Second Republic. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kollross and Mr Leichtfried]] I'd like to tell you one thing: The social partners agree on good things, for example, by taking the short-term work scheme as an example, which has now reached a volume of EUR 12 billion, and then here you stand and criticise these measures, which your own trade unionists have rightly agreed with. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We have accepted the social partners' agreement on one point, it is now the extension in which the trade union representatives vote. [[Abg. Matznetter: No, we criticize that...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Move it.]] Neither can we, ladies and gentlemen, negotiate and agree on the one hand, on the other hand criticise. This is unsavory policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Why do we decide on this budget? – You have kept this to yourself, Mrs Klubobfrau: because there is additional funding for many areas in the individual sub-divisions: a plus of 119 million euros for police and federal forces; an increase of 10 per cent in justice, especially for support staff, of 165 million euros; additional funds for rural areas and protection from natural hazards, a plus of 144 million euros, for example for transport billions; and the budget for environmental, climate and energy measures will be increased by almost 70 per cent in 2020. Above all, it is also necessary to decide on this budget, because this would not be possible with the continuation of the budget procedure. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] You have also been silent, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Currently, growth forecasts, which are unfortunately negative forecasts, are changing almost daily. Wifo alone currently assumes a range of minus 5.25 percent to minus 7.5 percent of gross domestic product. The International Monetary Fund predicts negative 7 percent, the Austrian National Bank minus 3.2 percent, and Bank Austria expects even minus 9 percent. [[Call the SPÖ:Raika?- Oh, my God!]] So we have a range of minus 3.2 percent to minus 9 percent. You have appealed to the economic reason I have missed in the SPÖ since its existence, but what does that mean now at minus 3.2 to minus 9 percent? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] How would you like it to be, Mrs Rendi-Wagner, what are we supposed to write into the budget? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] This is about billions of money. – This too is not to be said by the people, Mrs Colleague, but perhaps it would have been helpful to listen to the experts in hearing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] – What you can do well is scream, Mr. Matznetter, that has been written on your body for many years. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] If you had really listened to the experts, you would have heard that Martin Kocher of the IHS, for example, stressed that “in spite of weekly updates of the studies, a forecast of the economic situation at the end of the year is not possible.” Margit Schratzenstaller of the Wifo spoke “of the most difficult budget creation in the history of the Second Republic. ” [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kollross and Mr Matznetter.]] You hear: “The budget can therefore only be a snapshot, but at least it offers the opportunity to put the main accents of the Government Declaration into figures.” – That is what we, ladies and gentlemen, are doing, the most important accents that we have agreed on will also be decided with this budget. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] For the corona aid measures, the budget provides for a surplus of EUR 28 billion, because the other EUR 10 billion is tax subsidies. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] Payments are set out in a comprehensive report for the purpose of transparency each month. In addition, the Court of Auditors has now also announced the examination of the Covid measures, which is good and correct, because the Court of Auditors is the control instrument of Parliament. [[Interlocutory calls from Members of the Double Bauer and Meinl-Reisinger]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] We are also discussing a subcommittee at the parliamentary level in connection with the Cofag Advisory Council. At the moment, we can only talk about snapshots, anything else would be unscrupulous, ladies and gentlemen. On Sunday, the Minister of Finance also made it clear in the “Kurier”: The Brussels report was not a budget data report but an economic data report at the request of the European Commission. [[Abg. Loacker:... bend!]] [[Abg. Matznetter: That wasn't the Wifo!]] At present, there is no final billing, neither revenue nor expenditure, and a cash loss only makes sense in autumn, which is also confirmed by the experts in this field. It is necessary to decide on this budget now so that we can picture where more expenditure is planned. [[Abg. Double farmer: What budget?]] Finally, some aspects to understand why we do this in this way: Tourism will open next weekend, and of course we hope that the Austrians will accept this offer again and make a holiday in the country. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Tourism in normal times accounts for 15 percent of the gross domestic product, but we do not know what it will look like this year in the final statement. [[Abg. Matznetter: But this is very...!]] We have set aside 12 billion euros for short work; the billing has not yet been done, it will only happen in the coming weeks and months. [[Call at the SPÖ:... payout...!]] Today a municipal package with a volume of 1 billion euros is introduced. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] 50 percent of the investment costs in the area of the municipalities are taken over by the federal government, for future but also for existing projects that are reflected in the estimates. There are the payments in the area of the hardness fund and fixed-cost grants, which are already paid to the entrepreneurs concerned in advance. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] Ladies and gentlemen, what do you want to put this into a budget from the point of view of economic reason if no one knows what this billing will really look like at the end of the day? [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] That would be unscrupulous, and that's why we don't. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] However, we decide on the budget that is available because we need it as a basis for correcting those expenditures that we, the government groups, have agreed on – that is why we will also decide together on this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e8749	Member of the Fuchs has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e8770	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Estimated members of the Federal Government! Dear Austrians! The approval and control of the State budget are among the central, most important and oldest rights of Parliaments in democracies. Unfortunately, there are 97 black and green national councillors who will knowingly decide a wrong budget on Thursday. We also have a Finance Minister who is unable to provide all of his predecessors with a proper and correct budget. [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of SPÖ and NEOS.]] We also have a National Council President Sobotka, who has no problem with the fact that the Minister of Finance is knowingly presenting a wrong budget. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] The budget is the policy cast in figures – this statement has never been as true as it is today. We are still discussing in the House a budget that the Minister of Finance has prepared before the Corona crisis. This budget, together with the budget speech, was already adopted by the Minister of Finance on 18 November. Tossed into the dunk. However, the Minister of Finance does not find it worth the effort to deal with current budget figures. The statement by the Minister of Finance is inconceivable: Any number that we know today will ultimately be wrong, says the Minister of Finance; and because that is the case, according to the Minister of Finance, it makes no sense to update the budget. Mr. Finance Minister, are you aware that there is a federal budget law? I can – and also you, dear Klubobmann Wöginger – in this context § 28 para. 2 to inform the Federal Budget Act: “The estimates should be calculated, but if this is not possible to appreciate.” – So don’t listen to your experts, read the law! [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Lightness: That was a...!]] Now we imagine that the AUA Board of Directors is presented to the Minister of Finance with a business plan or a budget that the Executive Board has prepared in pre-Corona times and requests state aid. – AUA would not receive a single cent from the Minister of Finance. But what the Minister of Finance requires of an enterprise must also apply to the Minister of Finance. [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of SPÖ and NEOS.]] This week 97 black and green national council members will approve 82.4 billion euros of disbursements and 81.8 billion euros of deposits, resulting in a net financing requirement of around 600 million euros. But we already know today that the Minister of Finance was on 30 June. In April, not 600 million euros have been reported after Brussels, but 30.5 billion euros – but even these 30.5 billion euros will not be enough at Weitem. Brussels is thus informed by the Minister of Finance of the current budgetary situation, but not the National Council. Brussels has a higher priority for the Minister of Finance than the House. Nevertheless, 97 black and green Members approve a wrong deficit of 600 million euros. And as a reward for giving us a wrong budget by the Minister of Finance, he also receives a blank check for 28 billion euros free of charge from the Black and Green Members. A possible unconstitutionality of this empowerment does not bother the government parties anyway, one is already used to that by the Covid-19 collection laws. – This is how it looks with the budgetary sovereignty of the National Council when black-green has the majority; budget transparency does not hold much black-green. It is all the more important now that the Covid-19 Subcommittee is finally set up so that all the fiscally relevant state measures are subject to genuine parliamentary control. This is the Austrian tax money, and transparency and control have never been damaged. The opposition has already asked the Minister of Finance to finally provide a budget based on the available data, even if, as we know, these data are insecure and not all uncertainties are foreseeable. The draft budget now before us is, in any case, an expression of great disrespect for the Minister of Finance and a disregard for the National Council. Meanwhile, we national councillors get more information from the budget service than from the Minister of Finance; on this occasion I can thank the head of the budget service, Dr. Berger, and his team for the expert analyses. [[General condolences.]] After ten weeks of budgetary inactivity, the Minister of Finance has now taken the budget out of his dungy and seriously believes that we will give this budget our approval. – No, the FPÖ will certainly not agree to this budget! Let me make a few comments on the Gastro package of the Federal Government: The increase in the amounts of non-taxable food vouchers will benefit workers, but not the innkeepers; it is therefore no longer consumed. All entrepreneurs will benefit from the temporary increase in the tax deductibility of business friends, but certainly not the innkeepers; there will no longer be any business food. The abolition of the sparkling wine tax helps the sect producers, but certainly not the hosts. The in-houses benefit only from the temporary reduction in the rate of sales of open non-alcoholic beverages. In fact, the gastro package announced by the Federal Government is not a gas package at all, but a collection of tax benefits from which all benefit – not just the host. The gastronomy and the hotel industry, however, quickly need a real aid package and not a black and green marketing package. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But it's nothing new: The ÖVP devotes so much time and detail to the staging of politics that there is little time left for the content design. We have a federal government that has promised rapid and unbureaucratic assistance, but this promise does not even comply with it. There is nothing working quickly and unbureaucratically in the aid measures. The Federal Government has promised the companies 38 billion euros of aid, up until now only 464 million euros have been spent in cash. For example, the amount of EUR 2 billion was spent on the hardening fund, and – you hardly believe it – only EUR 191 million were paid out, which is less than 10 percent. If you continue to do so, Mr Finanzminister, with your bureaucracy and your form industry, most companies will be pleading before they have ever received a single euro of help. This is how the Federal Government's rapid and unbureaucratic assistance looks. A budget, in which every single number of people will eventually be wrong, is a policy in which every single measure will also prove to be false. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e8846	The word is Klubobfrau Maurer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e8867	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers in front of the screens! We are faced with four very intensive plenary sessions, which will focus on the budget for the already advanced year 2020. The year 2020 has been a very challenging year and it will certainly remain very challenging: for the many people who have lost their job, for the many entrepreneurs who are in an economically very precarious situation, but also for the parents, especially the women, who have faced the great challenge of home schooling and home office in recent weeks. But it will go uphill! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] We have easings, we have aid funds, and against the individual examples that are always mentioned here, there are a lot of examples of where the money is very good, even if one has to improve here and there. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The budget we are going to decide here is the result of very long and tough negotiations, which started in the autumn of winter palaces and moved far after Christmas. They are also the result of much shorter but no less tough negotiations with the Ministry of Finance in February. At these times, it was not yet foreseeable that Corona would shake up the Republic, that Corona would take a line through our account. The budget has been cast into figures – so far, three out of four speakers have said that. This sentence will be further strengthened on this day. While the opposition here speaks loud of a fake budget, i.e. of a falsified budget – and this is a rather strong statement, I would say, which I certainly do not share – I would like to focus here today on the policy that is behind these figures and which has been cast into these figures. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Even though Corona has taken a line through our account and we have to re-dispose in many areas logically, the government programme, which this turquoise-green government has made up, on which we have agreed, is anything but a coincidence. It is a government programme which we have committed ourselves as a green group and which we owe to the Austrian people and, of course, to our voters. No question, even the originally planned budget without Corona would logically not have included all the measures provided for in the government programme. It was always clear that it would be a sort of transitional budget. However, we have set many priorities with which we underline the policy we want to make for this Republic in the next few years. I want to focus on that today. We have committed ourselves to taking decisive steps in the field of climate protection and to averting the catastrophe that still threatens us by the unbridled warming of the planet. This means that we are making an appropriate contribution to preventing this disaster. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] We double the funds for photovoltaics, we increase the budget of the Climate and Energy Fund by EUR 15 million. [[call to the FPÖ.]] Corona is now turning a lot of people on the bike. The budget available will be increased ten times. We have a total increase of more than 160 million euros in the area of environment, climate and energy, more than 200 million euros for mobility, more than 20 million euros for research in this area. Another point: Alma Zadić, our Minister of Justice, has successfully fought for a substantial increase in resources in this budget so that justice can overcome its chronic sub-financing. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] 165 million euros more also mean 30 new prosecutors for the fight against cybercrime, hatred in the network and corruption, 100 new stations for support staff, which will significantly speed up the handling of the cases in justice, as well as an increase for the judiciary or the data protection authority. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light snow]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Another area that is very important to me personally and which now also affects us more strongly by corona is violence against women. In a first step, we increase the budget for women by 20 percent to 12 million euros. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: 17 million...!]] The money is intended in particular to be used for the protection of violence. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We decide these days on this budget, including the excess appropriations necessary to remedy the corona crisis. This concerns, as has already been said, several billion euros for short-time work, the aid funds, the hard-fall funds, it also concerns measures such as the support. In addition to this direct aid, however, we also provide impulses for the economy to come back and do exactly what you have called for here, Mrs Rendi-Wagner, for example, with a 1-billion-euro community investment package to ensure that projects that were planned but which can not be carried out potentially due to the loss of income in the communities – the construction of kindergartens, of schools, of retirement homes – are carried out anyway. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] We support 50 percent. This parish package also bears a green handwriting. We are also driving this investment package towards ecologicalisation. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Projects in the field of renewable energy and in the field of thermal rehabilitation will be supported. New buildings have to meet the climate-active silver standard. All these are important steps in the fight against the climate crisis. We have also provided 300 million euros of fresh money for the expansion of the railways, in particular the secondary railways, which is a question of boosting the regional economy. We have provided 200 million euros for the protection and ecologicalisation of our waters. Corona has hit us hard, but together with the forward-looking investments, we will also be able to get out. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We know above all today that we do not know how the year 2020 will end in terms of economic policy, labour market policy and health. [[Abg. Vogl:... 31. December!]] We don't know. We know, however, that even if the Corona crisis is overcome, the next crises are at the door – an economic crisis and the climate crisis – that are to be overcome. We will be flexible enough to welcome the necessary changes due to the budget adopted today. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I think that speaking of a falsified budget is clearly inappropriate. Insert false numbers – other false numbers – for this you would be sure to beat us, dear Mrs Rendi-Wagner, just as much. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] Accordingly, I very much hope that the further debate on these next days will be devoted to the actual contents of this budget and not just to this metacritism. [[Call the SPÖ:... Take real numbers!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e9020	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e9047	Mr President. Mr. Bundeskanzler, Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear viewers not here in the hall, but perhaps in front of the screens! It has already been said a lot about the budget debated over the next few days, and I have also read a few words about how this has been said. There's the talk of house numbers; you could just as well discuss house numbers. It is, I think, also very strikingly spoken of ‘old paper’, which has actually been more or less symbolically burned into the dung cube a few weeks ago. One could, of course, stand on the point of view, that is the stupid opposition, which does not understand what an extraordinary situation one is in, and that it is very difficult to provide really accurate figures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there is every understanding that not every number in each sub-group will be kept in focus – that is absolutely clear. That's just as clear to the opposition. However, not even trying to provide a serious budget with a corresponding supplement is indeed a disrespect for parliamentarianism and for the people's representation in that country. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] Mr Klubobmann Wöginger, you said it would be unsolicited to put revised numbers on the table. The guiding principle of this federal government or the representatives of the government groups should therefore be: If it's unscrupulous, then it's hot! [[Cheerfulness of the speaker.]] We are going to present the paper and no new figures – this is just as unscrupulous or even more unscrupulous – and then we will not debate it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] That's not a claim! This is not a claim that can be made to a serious budget debate. Again: The understanding is there. But if the best information we get here in our own house as a Member of Parliament is prepared by our budget service – at this point a warm thank you for the really excellent work that has been done there – then this is a job refusal by the Minister of Finance and the whole Ministry of Finance. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ as well as with members of the FPÖ]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] The budget service has worked out what was reported to Brussels, and it may already be that this is not comparable in depth – no question – but it has enabled substantial estimates and forecasts to be made. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Greiner]] What you are doing is actually continuing your activities in recent weeks: They are using the crisis to gradually drive Parliament's disillusionment. [[I would like to appeal to Mr Neos and Mr SPÖ, as well as to the members of the FPÖ.]] It is a regulatory authority that you then implement on a land that is dizzy by the rule of law. It is now a question of exceeding authority. When I read that there are some who say: That is a small debate, then I say to you: This is not a small debate! It is about the basic institutions of democracy and the budgetary law of Parliament. If, on Thursday night, the representatives of the government groups will decide that the Minister of Finance will be given almost a third of the budget by means of an overrun - a kind of blank check - without Parliament's right of participation, I believe that this is a task of parliamentarianism. And what this means for democracy in this country, you should end up discussing in your political groups! [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] Production suggests content – we know essential figures from press conferences. This is always particularly interesting if we don't get regular numbers delivered here, but like so many feverish at the 80. The press conference is sitting in front of the screens and then listening to the numbers that you present as a policy cast in numbers – as a plan. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] I have already stopped talking about what this means again in respect of respect for Parliament's budgetary law when we learn about these figures from press conferences. However, since yesterday – since the “ZIB 2” – we definitely know that staging also affects content when it comes to the issue of economic aid. Excuse me, but if we can only read about the budget in the coffee soda – even if Mrs Klubobfrau Maurer has really tried to stick to the goals that were set out before Corona – then we will discuss what Covid-19 aid measures actually happened and what effectiveness they have had! Look, I got a button in the brain. A few weeks ago – in fact, months ago – you stood here and conspired to a close of your shoulders, said that we only come out of this crisis together well and strongly. There were times and again moments when great gestures were announced, which would not be done now. The biggest of all gestures was: “Taste it what it wants!” Again and again, there were situations where members of the opposition parties drew attention to the fact that some kind of aid measure might not have been as clever as you spoke in the press conferences that perhaps some kind of aid measure, such as short-time work, could become a sort of liquidity trap for entrepreneurs, because the payouts do not happen quickly. What did you say then? – You said: The opposition can only criticize, that's all wrong, that's all not true! – And now look You can do this on the basis of the actual figures that are now also on the table! Yesterday we heard about the short work: This has now been increased to 12 billion euros, 273 million euros have been paid – the whole situation in which the double salaries are due in June. [[Abg. Wöginger: It's not even billed yet!]] – This is the tragedy, Mr Wöginger, that has not yet been reckoned! That's exactly the problem we warned about. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We have said that this will be a liquidity case for companies. [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Wöginger and Schellhorn.]] It's made bad, absolutely bad! [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Or the hardness fund: The hardening fund cannot be outnumbered to bureaucracy! [[Abg. Schellhorn: Insanity!]] Don't overdo it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] For perhaps 436 euros, entrepreneurs report all the figures – not only estimates – and all the data of the Chamber of Commerce, and 191 million euros have been paid out. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl]] [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Woeinger]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The question is: Can't you or don't you want it? [[Call:You can't do it]] – If the budget is put into figures policy and is a plan, then one must say that is evidence of immense planlessness. [[Abg. Woeinger:... Give it to me?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Schellhorn: (in the direction of Abg. Caughter)? What are you giving?]] [[Abg. Wöger: (in the direction of Abg. Schellhorn)... Investigation Committee!]] – May I ask the gentlemen to discuss this afterwards? Thank you. It testifies to an immense planlessness and, ultimately, to a refusal of reality, what businesses, what people, what workers, but also entrepreneurs, really need. Phase one should mean quick and unbureaucratic help – well, I think we can find today that it didn't work so well. The phase two is now going up. This is a very sensitive area, and I have already said that the great gesture is not enough, it must happen with a lot of conscience – inconsistencies are enough – but above all it must be accompanied by optimism, confidence and planning. At this point I can only appeal here once again to listen to what the opposition says sometime. With fear-retorics – there is the top fear-rehearser – one will not bring confidence and optimism into this country alone, neither among consumers nor at the businesses that are now going up again. [[towards Bundeskanzler Kurz]] [[Congratulation with the NEOS]] If I want to be consumed, if I want the farms to work again, then it needs this confidence. We also made proposals yesterday – I can also give them to you again – which is necessary for this confidence, this planning and optimism. If we are talking about freedom, and I believe it is urgently necessary to talk about it, then in this situation we need to talk about freedom for entrepreneurs. The creative minds that have adapted over the last few weeks are constantly at the limits of the trade order. When, if not now, would the plan be to bring confidence and entrepreneurial freedom to this country and to reform or also bring relief to the trade order? Mrs Klubobfrau Rendi-Wagner also said: please prefer tax relief in the collective reform, so that we have a chance to stimulate consumption and thus bring confidence! It is also important to strengthen equity; therefore, our proposal to suspend the auction for profits not taken over the next two or three years. This will be an essential issue – listen to Mr Treichl in the “Morgenjournal”! –: the capital requirements of the companies. Ensuring investment in companies, strengthening equity – I have already said – and now I am telling you the last point – I suppose we will discuss it too – namely: Europe. Optimizism and confidence also mean recognizing – as it has already been discussed here – that Austria is not an island, but thanks to a very networked economy. I hope that, unlike in the fifties and 1960s, a European idea has prevailed among the rulers that a purely first Austrian position is the stupidest one to do. We are connected, that is good, and the strength of Austria, even in the future, is in a strong Europe. This means that we must open the borders, and that means that we must also act in solidarity at European level at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e9287	The Minister for Finance has been reported to speak. I can give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e9331	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the TV screens! Above all: Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition groups! I can actually give you the right in some criticisms, but in many criticisms I must strongly contradict you. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] I should like to give you the right to be in a situation where we are in the highest degree of uncertainty and are in this policy. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I am right if you say that this crisis is probably the biggest and most difficult one we have experienced in all our lifetimes. I am right, too, that there is constant potential for improvement. For this very reason, the Federal Government has decided to set up an unprecedented aid package of 38 billion euros in order to lift a protective shield over the Austrian economy to help all those most affected by this crisis – and this aid comes, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Call the SPÖ: Who?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I can give you a few figures in this respect Until now, 250 000 requests for tax payments and tax reductions have been received in the Ministry of Finance and directly approved to the extent of EUR 6 billion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Greiner]] [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] This money remains as a more liquidity in the companies in order to be able to get through at this time. [[Abg. Belakovich: They have no revenue!]] As regards guarantees and loans, more than 20,000 applications have been submitted and approved so far, a total of EUR 4 billion in guarantees from the State has been taken over. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] With regard to short-time work – originally designed together with the trade union with a maximum of EUR 400 million – applications of over EUR 10 billion have now been approved. [[Abg. Belakovich: We already criticized that!]] Of course, the short work can only be taken into account afterwards – that is how it is designed – if you know how much has actually been worked. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: Wrongly designed!]] This has been possible since the beginning of May, and more than 40 000 applications have been charged in this area too, and the money has been spent. So I would ask you to take this into account, too, if you already want to express any real criticism, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Of course, not everything is perfect. There is no blueprint for a corona crisis, there is no manual for it, so we are constantly working on improvements. We have set up a hotline in the Ministry of Finance, where only 12,000 citizens have now been contacted. We not only speak and answer the citizens and help them, but also draw lessons from them – we see where we need to improve and improve. [[Abg. Schellhorn: Sapperlot!]] However, if you look at the international figures and comparisons that are published – whether they are from the European Commission or the OECD – you can see that Austria is obviously better than other countries through the crisis, whether this is in the field of health or whether we can now increase the economy faster than it is in other countries thanks to the decisive measures of the Federal Government. [[Abg. Greiner: What numbers are these?]] This is not just what we are saying, as the European Commission says. The aid measures put in place in Austria are partly among the best in the world. The short work model is the most attractive and flexible one in the world. [[Abg. Schellhorn: Who says that?]] [[Abg. Belakovich: How do you get it?]] With regard to the loans that you have always criticized: The Austrian state is one of only four across the European Union, which guarantees up to 100 percent of loans. Just one example, because Germany has also been mentioned: In Germany, there have been 8 000 applications for these loans, almost 7 000 in Austria, more than 6 000 of which have already been approved – one to ten between Austria and Germany. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] That too is a truth of this crisis. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The fixed-cost grant started last week, there have been almost 2,000 applications so far, the first money will flow at the end of May, early June. We have also learned from the debate and greatly preferred the payment of this fixed-cost grant: from the coming year to the beginning of June and the end of August. I can come to the budget and the topics you criticised. I believe that it is useful to decide on the budget in this form because many good, important and right measures are included in it, whether it is more money for justice – 30 prosecutors more than, over 100 people more in support staff – a 70 percent increased budget in many areas for the environment, climate and energy, more than 100 million euros more for the police or a plus of 400 million euros in the field of science and research. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] That can be seen. Thank you for allowing us to decide on this budget this week, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The forecasts for growth in Austria vary greatly, ranging from minus 3.5 percent to minus 9 percent. The economic researchers also say that it is only in autumn that it makes sense to make a cash crash and put the figures on the table, what it has cost up to now and what it may cost in total. At the latest in the autumn, we will also discuss the 2021 budget, and there too this cost truth will arise. We are working very transparently with regard to the previous Corona expenditures. We also agreed that there should be a surplus of up to EUR 28 billion in the budget, which is also reported each month. Every month, Parliament is told exactly what happened to this money. A separate subgroup for covid measures has been set up for this purpose, and what exactly happens to the corona measures can be tracked. In addition, of course, we will address the criticism and represent the amount actually paid out in the budget. Fourth point: The report, which has gone to Brussels – it has been said many times already, even yesterday in the Ö1 “Morgenjournal” by an economic researcher – obviously has nothing to do with the budget. A budget has 36 000 accounts, a budget estimate from the Ministry of Finance lasts several weeks, is made twice a year and affects 5 000 to 6 000 accounts. What has been reported in Brussels is a Wifo estimate with total national economic figures and nothing else. On the criticism of Mr Fuchs concerning the legality or doubt of this: I do not know who you were talking to, Mr. Fuchs – I usually appreciate your opinion in terms of content – but all the constitutional lawyers and budget experts we spoke to confirm the legality of this procedure, whether the university professor Dr. Heinrich is from Klagenfurt, university professor Dr. Poier from Graz, or budget expert Manfred Lödl. We have all specifically asked them after this criticism had occurred, and all of them confirm us a correct course of action. – Thank you also to these experts, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Finally, I can give you the following permission: We face an unprecedented challenge. In this situation I would like to expressly thank you for the last weeks, especially all employees in the cabinets, in the ministries, who are working day and night to ensure that improvements are constantly being made in the various bodies that are fighting this crisis together with us, and thanks to the Austrians for their strong cohesion in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e9551	Member of the Upper Nosterer has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e9601	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear spectators at home in front of the TV screens! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] Mr Finanzminister, you have done this and I do not want to repeat anything, but let me address a few words on the budget to the opposition parties. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Greiner.]] My family has two hotels, we also need to create a budget. We sat down last week before we lock up – on the weekend we lock up both houses – and we looked at what the budget for this year looks like – because it is the same as we did with 1. Years have created, no longer fits – which fixed costs we have, because we also have the obligation to the banks. We know exactly the fixed costs: They are composed of what we need in the kitchen, what we need in the service, on the floor, in the administration. – In the same way, for the Minister of Finance, the costs for the individual departments were: These costs are fixed on the table – also here in the state budget. Then we have a budget for special actions that we need to put in place so that we can perhaps go up to the level better and faster. For this, there is a lump sum – we do not know today how much we can use it – and this corresponds about, if I compare now – the red is the same in small and large – the special budget, the empowerment for these funds of 38 billion euros. And do you know where the biggest question mark is in the company and probably here in the state? – It is behind the question: How much money is coming in? – We cannot say that at home, and the state cannot say it either. Once again, to understand: This government is currently focusing on what is to be done so that the economy in this country goes up again and that people get back to work; and to that end I congratulate this government on German Chancellor Kurz and Vice-Cancellor Kogler. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Then I come – as I am a gastronomy and a hotelier – to the second point that we will still decide on today, namely, the Wirtshaus package. Mrs. Köstinger, the framework conditions under which the gastronomy and hotel industry can lock up in Austria are exemplary for the whole of Europe! I have looked at all the examples: Such liberal and practical regulations as we in Austria, which nevertheless guarantee security, do not exist in any other state. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – Look internationally at what is there, and don’t laugh! Work with the matter once, since you do not know the practice – I tell you quite honestly! [[Intercessions by MEPs Angerer and Worm.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] What's next: The business package, Mrs Bundesminister, which you have now put on the table, with a package of up to 400 000 euros, the tax relief, the reduced VAT on non-alcoholic beverages in the second half of the year until Christmas, makes, yesterday, a tax advisor working mainly for innkeepers, a country guest house with a turnover of approximately 300 000 euros, which, of course, makes a half-good profit – if it is operated in the family association – between 5,000 and 15 000 euros only on tax reliefs, without having to apply for anything. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kollross and Mr Matznetter]] [[Vivid cheerfulness and call of the Abg. Worm]] These tax reliefs, Mrs Bundesminister, which are included in this package, are more than the fixed-cost subsidy to which the companies can apply. This is help, it has quickly helped, and I thank the government very much for this really practical implementation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e9710	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e9731	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! There are some things that this government, especially the ÖVP, can do quite well: She can make very good press conferences. She can do very well PR and staging – that makes her very good, you have to say. It can also make very well-partisan-politically motivated decisions, both in the case of personnel decisions and, for example, in the case of those who deal with hardness funds – namely the WKO and not the financial offices. The whole world takes financial offices because they can do better because they have more staff because they are faster because they are more unbureaucratic; in Austria, on the other hand, this has to be done by the WKO, because President Mahrer obviously still has time for other things and wants to represent himself as patrons – so it's about staging again, because he's distributing the money to the businesses. – So that can be the ÖVP, and it can also work well from above. But there are also many things that the ÖVP cannot do, which also Finance Minister Blümel cannot. The first thing he cannot do is to present a constitutional budget. He can't. It is also unable to present a budget which corresponds to budgetary law. He can't. Germany can do that. Germany is doing this! Explain You're telling me: Why, of course, can the Germans say from today's point of view how revenue and expenditure will develop – from today's point of view – and that can't be presented to Parliament, but the Blümel and the ÖVP can't do that? Explain to me why the Germans are so much better than you are! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Double farmer.]] In the meantime, however, I have heard that you have already announced an amendment. It seems that these experts you have listed have told you what is not going on, that what you are doing here is not constitutional, and that is why you will have to submit an amendment, because otherwise this budget will be unconstitutional. I have heard that exactly as you have announced, you will submit an amendment in which you will change the numbers – because you need to change them. You did not listen to us, and when we announced that we would be mandated external experts to examine this, have they become quite nervous, both in the BMF and in the Constitutional Service – who is the head of the Constitutional Service?Use custom fonts; [[Abg. Steinacker: That's incredible!]] [[Abg. Steinacker: No,...!]] Your former chief of cabinets, now I think of it again! – and have now tried massively for days to get even an expert. This is not so easy to find in Austria, who want to review what you are presenting here, because everyone at first glance says: [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] That is clearly illegal, that is clearly unconstitutional! – So you already announce that you have to fix it; and this is good that you at least announce it here. Whatever you can't, is to organize help. You're great at making press conferences, saying: 1 billion euros for the EPCs and SMEs, then there is the next press conference in which it says: Not 1, no, 2 billion euros! – What we know, however, is: This help doesn't come! Not even 200 million euros from the 2 billion euros promised emergency aid has arrived. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Tens of thousands of EPCs, tens of thousands of SMEs get nothing or a few hundred euros. That won't be enough! And you know that the money doesn't come – you admitted it to yourself yesterday, because you can't deny it anymore – and always say: We're going to re-adjust! – I say to you: Let this finally be more practical! Swirl You finally do this about the financial offices, and finally involve practitioners from the opposition who know how to do it and how to do it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The next thing you don't have is ideas, i.e. innovative ideas, how to really deal with this crisis – in contrast to the mayor of Vienna, who has a very simple concept Every Vienna household receives a voucher worth 25 euros – for single-person households – or 50 euros for use in in-houses. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Steinacker]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Upper Noster]] [[Abg. Wöginger: This used to be the Haider!]] This will be sent out in June, and that is what it is about: This money comes to those who need it, namely to the innhouses and to the coffee houses – they don't want money for nothing, but they want guests and want to make sales. And that's where it comes from! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you really want to support tourism, why do you reject the opposition's requests? We have said that exactly the same concept can also be made for tourism companies: Let's give every Austrian, every Austrian, every one who lives in Austria, works here and pays taxes, all who live here, a 200 Euro voucher to be redeemed in an accommodation farm of their choice by the end of the year! [[Mr Haubner and Mr Steinacker.]] – This will help tourism! You can still put so much into advertising so that the Germans come here and possibly get back some viruses – I prefer that the Austrians make a holiday here in Austria. [[Federal Minister Köstinger: Hello?! Hello?- Oh, my God!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That's what we need! That is something that would really help, namely innovative ideas, so that it works! We also see the law we are currently debating here that you can't do it by hand. [[Abg. Lopatka: What does that mean by dragging viruses in?- Oh, my God!]] [[Federal Minister Köstinger: The Germans drag viruses in?- Oh, my God!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ottenschlager.]] [[Further calls at the ÖVP: Drag in viruses?- Oh, my God!]] This is to be tax-free – that is the protection of the substance, which is to be tax-free – and to which it is still to be paid tax, because you can't do it by hand. [[Keeping a mouth-nose protection mask in height]] [[Keeping a face visionary in height]] Today, we will also give you the opportunity to make this work better, namely, that both will be tax-free, and we will also give you the opportunity to improve this budget in such a way that it will be in conformity with law and constitutional law. It would be good for the former economic party ÖVP and for the former control party the Greens to follow us there. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e9993	Mr Schwarz is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e10015	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear sisters! I know that many of these laws are not up-to-date enough. I think we all would have liked to have up-to-date figures, but if, as you have asked, Mr Krainer, we had updated the figures at the beginning of May before the Committee's deliberations, then today they would have been overdue due to the crisis. That's the problem at the moment when creating this budget, and it's just hard for me to understand that you can't understand it. Yes, Mrs Klubobfrau, the budget is a plan, a plan for the projects and the priorities, the government's political priorities, and they are shown in the budget, whether in the field of climate change or in the field of digitalisation. These measures and objectives have been right before the crisis, and they will be right after the crisis – they are right, both with and without Corona. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] These measures include a five-fold increase in the out-of-the-oil bonus, which is a promotion, a boiler exchange programme that has typically been exhausted after a few weeks, and a ten-fold increase in resources for cycling and active mobility, as well as an increase of over 100 locations in the judiciary – a 10 percent increase in the budget, an increase in the female budget by 20 percent. [[Call the SPÖ:17!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] These are political objectives that have been put into the budget in the form of figures. That's exactly what the budget is all about. On these bases, on this goal comes Corona on top, and at Corona it makes no sense to say: We set the goal that short work costs 20 percent more. – This is not the way to make budgetary policy, but it is about – and this is the political agreement within the government – that the economic disaster, the cost of what it wants, is turned away – this is what it is about and we have agreed on – and that we ensure stable economic conditions. Now, to set down on global budgets, which can cost Corona, would also mean a certain risk: Imagine that we would be budgeting too low, then it would probably be a first-come-first-serve principle for example in the various funds. [[Call to the SPÖ:In the type of payout there is no...!]] People would get up and the others would be left. That can't be right. Conversely, if you budget too high, it can come to take-away effects, and worse still: It may result in estimates in the March budget being more accurate than an update that we could now enter. I believe that giving the Minister of Finance the authorisation to agree to overruns of the various UGs is precisely the right access, because it is a characteristic of this crisis that problems at different times arise differently. You have to be able to react to that, and that's exactly what this variant is all about. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] What it needs, however, because of the high dynamic – I agree with you – is transparency and control and the necessary reports. We have achieved a great deal in this area. On the one hand, we have – we have already discussed it in the Committee on Budgets – had a relatively detailed chapter on the corona crisis in March, on the other hand, we are today presenting a joint proposal with NEOS, the detailed budgets, which show where the various UGs use the corona aid. There are also negotiations on the Coronaunter Committee and the Cofag Advisory Council, where there will be strong minority rights and regular reporting obligations. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: It's not about minority rights! That's kind of weird!]] In addition, we are just ahead of the next budgetary negotiations. In autumn, I think, we will have a better view of how both economic and health conditions develop. We will then, I believe, have to review both the budget and the financial framework, not only because of the corona crisis, but also because of the other measures taken by the Federal Government, especially because of developments in the climate crisis. I think that's all the right access. I hope that in the end you may still be able to get through and agree to this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e10090	Mr Belakovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e10111	Mr President. Values Tax payers! Today, therefore, we are discussing a budget which has in fact been decided in February and which the Minister of Finance has, in his own words, long been thrown into the old paper. Nevertheless, it should be decided today. The question is as follows: How serious is that? – This is not serious at all, because we do not get any information about what is to be financed in truth, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Finanzminister, I have listened carefully to you: You will be able to issue a regulation once again today, i.e. more than EUR 28 billion in order to exceed the budget, but you have not told us today what you are planning to do with this money. You just don't say what you're planning to do in the next few years with 28 billion euros of tax money. Mr Finanzminister, this is a disregard for taxpayers! It is not the private money of this Federal Government, but the money of the Austrians, and they have a right to know what to do with this money, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Because they have been addressed so many times today, the great help: What's so beautiful? – Whoever helps quickly helps twice! Mr Finanzminister, that was the first credo of this federal government, and the second was: “It costs what it wants”! – If we see the naked figures today, we see that 38 billion euros have been paid almost nothing. They themselves have been here before and explain what fundings have flown. Mr Finanzminister, you have only said what has been done in support and what has been in liability, because you know very well that only very little money has actually flown, namely exactly 464 million euros. Perhaps this little money is also with a reason why you were not at all willing to review this budget, because one has the impression that you are messing up quite, quite, very strongly with the Austrian entrepreneurs. As little as possible is to be paid out, obstacles are installed, applicants are made to be bitters. Mr Wöginger said it right today: People are grateful to us and this government. – Well, that’s exactly where the ÖVP wants the citizens: that they become dependent, grateful people. – That is not what we want, ladies and gentlemen! [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and the representatives of the NEOS.]] We want the Austrians to be allowed to move freely, that entrepreneurs may freely decide what they are doing and how they are doing, and not that there are only restrictions from above. That's all this corona madness that's playing out there, and all this is breaking the companies – it's not the virus, but it's your actions, ladies and gentlemen, that you're putting on the Austrian companies, the Austrians, day after day! Expression of that is then this funny face mask, which we know exactly, that it does not help at all, and yet write You still have this mask before all citizens in this country, despite the temperatures that will soon come. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: And the children!]] Already there are a lot of rebels. There are already many Austrians who no longer want to wear them and can no longer carry them because they get allergies because they do not tolerate them. When I look into the ranks of the ÖVP, I notice that there too the rebellion is increasing: More and more ÖVP members are sitting in the plenary room without a mask today. Listen So, finally, you're going to get rid of this masquerading duty, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let's get back to your budget. If you say it's been so much money, you have to ask yourself, Minister of Finance: Which entrepreneurs do you meet? Perhaps the Chamber of Commerce is the wrong institution to disburse these funds. Perhaps the Chamber of Commerce is simply and simply overwhelmed, and perhaps one should let it be paid out to the financial offices – then perhaps it would be a more objective procedure, because these are people who can do that; they have learned this, they are there to pay out money – so that the money actually comes, because much time, Mr. Finanzminister, we do not have anymore. Many entrepreneurs are already so far today that they say they're locked up. Many gastronomy companies have had one, two days open and locked up again. I don't know in which world You live that you think it's so wonderful now. You see, of course, there are the same and the same: For some it is not so important that you keep a distance of 1 meter, for some it is not so important that you wear a mask. If Mr. Federal Chancellor is driving in the car with his chauffeur – I don't think he lives in the same household with his chauffeur – he doesn't wear a mouth-nose protection. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Deimek]] If someone else does this, namely someone from the common people, he receives a punishment. If the Federal Chancellor goes shoulder to shoulder with Vorarlberg's head of state, then sits down in the "ZIB 2" and explains that the population was guilty, then I wonder if he did not realize that he had not complied with a security gap to the head of state. So there are really differences, just as there are with the President of the Federal Republic – but I think this is very high, that, unlike the Chancellor of the Federal Republic, he has apologised and admitted that it was a mistake. But precisely because the President-in-Office has also seen it, I believe that this period of suspension is a long way off. I have already asked the question: How does it look, is the virus night active? Is it active from 23:00? – So get away with that break! Let the entrepreneurs who work for gastronomy as long as they want to work, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can only invite the President of the Federal Republic of Germany to also sign our petition on the website www.coronawahnsinn.at, because that is exactly one of the demands we have: Get away with the break and get away with this empty mask duty, ladies and gentlemen! Stop with that corona crazy!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e10181	Member's head has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e10202	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! Appreciate spectators in front of the screens! This coalition, ladies and gentlemen, and this federal government, too, are highly politically legitimated by the outcome of the 2019 National Council elections. The two 2019 election winners, the ÖVP and the Greens, have given themselves a very, very ambitious government programme, which sets out social policy initiatives, sets up security initiatives, sets environmental initiatives and, last but not least, also sets out economic initiatives. One could say, quoting the Federal Chancellor and also quoting Werner Kogler, “the best of both worlds”: an eco-social government programme. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] It is only logical and legitimate that the Minister of Finance, together with his colleagues in the Federal Government, has put expenditure priorities in the budget negotiations, which naturally follow this government programme. These priorities, which can be found in this government programme, are still up-to-date and valid in spite of this unfortunate corona crisis, so they are right to find their place on the expenditure side in this budget now available – completely right. Yes, of course it is right that Corona has dramatically changed the situation with us in the country. It also changes the situation for our budget, both on the expenditure side and on the revenue side – no question. It needs to be spent on grants to companies. There is a need for generous expenditure to ensure jobs, high expenditure on short-term work. Special industry concepts such as gastronomy need to be developed. Further concepts are needed: whether for the hotel industry, whether for the tour operators and bus operators, whether for the event organisers and many more more who are particularly affected by this crisis; this is also being worked on. A total of 38 billion euros is currently available. In addition, credit guarantees – the Minister of Finance has already carried out how they are to start and be used now – as well as support from taxes and taxes to a very high degree. Yes, it is all right for all those who call for further economic action to be taken. However, the right time must be set with the experts, the economic researchers; it must be agreed with them when these measures can be most effective. More will be needed: structural measures in the area of taxation, bureaucracy. If you look at all of this together, you have to say that it is simply impossible to make serious forecasts at this time about what these additional measures – and there will have to be followed by what we do not yet know – all of them will cost each other, including in terms of the revenue side. It is true that the revenue will remain significantly behind the budget now available, but who is able to predict serially when it comes to economic forecasts and economic researchers who differ between 3.5 per cent and 9 per cent in terms of economic performance, where the revenue actually comes from? That would be an unsavory look at the glass ball. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That is to say, it is absolutely serious to present this budget, negotiated by the Minister of Finance on the basis of the government programme, just as it is now on the table, to Parliament – all ministries need a suitable and legally binding basis for their expenditure activities; it continues to be based, among other things, on the government programme – but it is also serious to regulate the uncertainties in revenue and expenditure that I have just described, first of all with an overarching authority to the Minister of Finance. [[Abg. Belakovich:... unscrupulous!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] In addition to these structural measures, which we have in the government programme, this also allows for a maximum aid framework, and it needs a maximum aid framework, because many entrepreneurs are hard and hardest hit in their livelihoods, as this maximum margin for the Minister of Finance to put these measures in place. Maybe another one: Of course – and the Minister of Finance has already said this – these measures are also notified and presented to Parliament by means of a monthly reporting obligation. Ladies and gentlemen also from the opposition! The criticism of this selected budget technology – and we are really just talking about one technique here – I just think it is small. Instead, it would be appropriate to support, on the one hand, the social, environmental, security and economic initiatives of this government and, on the other hand, to support us in creating maximum scope for assistance for those in need in Austria – and that, unfortunately, is very, very many.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e10257	Members of the European Parliament are speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e10278	Mr President. Dear sisters, dear Seeher! High house! [[The speaker put on the speaker’s desk a light-turquoise-colored dungbird with the title “A budget for bubbling”.]] [[Abg. Matznetter: Even the Turquoise is already pale!]] [[Call to the ÖVP.]] Values Members of the Federal Government! [[Call the ÖVP: A high-ranking man!]] Dear Minister for Finance: “The act will be forgotten, but the outcome remains.” – Minister of Finance, I do not know: Does this statement perhaps tell you anything? Do you know that? - He's not listening to me right now. [[Federal Minister Blümel looks at his smartphone.]] He'd have to know it, because it's from his favorite poet Ovid. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] In fact, Mr Finance Minister, you have refused your work here; this may be forgotten at some point, but as a result you will be the first and only Finance Minister in the Second Republic, who has not managed to present a proper budget to Parliament, its representatives, the Republic and the citizens of Austria. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Instead, we discuss waste paper here. – Mr Finanzminister, these are your words. Because this result remains, I would simply like to hand over to you as a reminder this Recycle Bin, into which you have sent your budget or your budget speech. [[Abg. Lightenness: Perhaps the Minister of Finance can be brief?- Oh, my God!]] [[The speaker put the dung dome on the ground next to Federal Minister Blümel.]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] What should we actually discuss here or what should we do? – To decide would be a realistic federal budget of the Republic of Austria. Especially now, it would be so important for the economy to have a really good timetable, to have a roadmap in view, but what happens here? - There's no one. What is also particularly important is that, in times of uncertainty, everyone knows his or her duties and also takes his or her responsibilities seriously. Let's just talk about how this normally works! The Minister of Finance of the Republic – and yes, that is in your job description, Mr. Finanzminister – is responsible for presenting a budget. This budget will then be discussed in the National Council and it will finally be voted on Thursday this week. This coordinated budget is the budget, which is the framework that the Federal Government will have to follow, and it must also account for it. The role of the National Council, of this House, is to check here that these uses are monitored accompanyingly. These are the rules of the game – they are not ours – that is what is provided for in the Constitution. Unfortunately, however, we cannot rely on these democratically proven rules of the game at the moment. Ladies and gentlemen, you all know why this is so: because the Minister of Finance is here and an old paper can be discussed – an old paper with figures from before Corona. We don't like it, it really bothers me. I am also annoyed, Mr President-in-Office, if you say that this is all serious. - It's not that. There are figures and these figures could be incorporated. There are numbers that could be presented here. One sends more recent figures to Brussels, but what one does not do is to present them to Parliament. The National Council has been discussed about waste paper – and these are the words of your Minister of Finance. I am already wondering how parliamentarianism is being briefly lived by this force, and I say that it will not live well and democracy, the rules of the game will be trampled on. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Honestly, I also asked myself – it is not that we do not want to make proposals here –: Is there a good reason why it goes as it is at the moment? Then you ask and hear the quote from the Minister of Finance, which is his credo: Unfortunately, all the figures are wrong, so it is not worth submitting a proper budget! – That’s absurdly absurd, that’s a cowardice! It is very serious, Mr Finance Minister, that you would be active in the private sector, that you would be the CFO or the Chief Financial Officer of a company that now needs a loan because of the crisis. Then go to your bank and face the bank advisor who then asks you: What about the current numbers, and you say to him: Well, I don't know, the numbers are all wrong anyway, didn't please me! – Then he might ask you: Do you have a plan? What are the forecasts for the future? And you answer him: Oh, well, I don't know, I don't know! What will happen then? - He'll send you home, he'll send you home without a penny. What's going to happen? – your management or Your Supervisory Board, depending on, will terminate you, and that is right, and he will look after a more capable person who will do so. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I mean, seriously. I would like this honestly today and here too, but right, we are not in real life, we are here in Parliament, and then there is another step forward: As Minister of Finance, you can also get a surplus of 28 billion euros – free-handed and, of course, without parliamentary control, this money can be granted again, because that is already happening again. [[Abg. Wöginger: That's not true at all!]] – Of course that’s true, of course! – Mr Wöginger, moderate yourself a little bit, I will come to you too! [[Abg. Wöginger: That's not true at all! That's simple and just wrong! They are Members of Parliament and claim the untruth!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: You too!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] What we need, what we want, what we also negotiate, what we have proposed as an opposition, is a budget subcommittee for accompanying control. What to do You as the Federal Government? – The Federal Government goes here and injunctifies by saying: Yeah, you can have one, but only if you go to the Cofag Advisory Board! - Very seriously: This Cofag advisory board simply has nothing to do with parliamentary control! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I think you have to explain it again, because from the outside you might think: Why don't they go in there? They would have a good chance to look at the numbers! – There are two points that we criticize as opposition. The one point is the: Only part of the funds allocated in the crisis will be examined in this advisory board. The second point is even more serious: You are subject to strict secrecy in the Advisory Board. That means that this has nothing to do with parliamentary control. We're talking about taxpayers spending, and there's a different access. This Cofag advisory board is a toothless tiger and a distraction maneuver, so that you can just completely disintegrate the opposition and get gagged as a fig leaf into the boat, so that you can finally say: You were all there anyway! – Quite honestly: That's not how it is! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Yes, there are also small steps in the right direction. For example, with a NEOS proposal, a request from us, we have achieved greater transparency at least in the monthly reports. This is a good step in the right direction, and I would like to thank you once again for the budget service, which has provided the template for it. This, ladies and gentlemen, would actually be what we should do here in this House; this is actually the job that we Members have in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, above all from the ÖVP, but also from the Greens, I ask you, therefore I also appeal to you: Voices You have to go to this budget sub-committee, because you can really control the whole money! Mr. Klubobmann Wöginger – because we already talked earlier – and also Clubobfrau Maurer: You have a responsibility to your team, to your fellow Members, because you are practically asking them to become fellow citizens, and that is not what we need in parliamentarianism. You don't need all the sticks that the government is accusing you of apportioning right away, just turning everything down and swinging through what is being done. This is not the task of a parliamentarian! You really don't get paid for that. We, the collected opposition, demand proper, accompanying democratic control by a budget subcommittee – now and immediately and not injunctimised with anything else. It's not acceptable what's going on right now. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Finally, I still have one, something very beautiful: I would like to tell all the maturants – we forget that they have been sitting in the morning since today and writing Matura – really want everything, everything good and say to them: You do a great job, you really do a great job in this absolute exceptional situation! I would like to add one more wish: I would like to see the same commitment to our Minister of Finance. However, I would like to give him a last chance to work on it, by making a request today, namely a referral back to the Committee on Budgets, in order to give the Federal Minister for Finance the opportunity to make up for its failure and to submit a current budget to the National Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e10461	Madam President, the motion is not before us. [[Abg. Scherak: He'll be here later!]] - Good. Mr Klubobmann Wöginger spoke on an actual correction.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e10506	Mr President. Mrs Doublebauer has claimed that the EUR 28 billion will pass through Parliament's control rights. – This is the untruth! I am actually correcting the fact that, by law, there is a monthly reporting obligation to the Budget Committee, which is used by these 28 billion euros as it is. Secondly, as Parliament's control instrument, the Court of Auditors is now examining all the cod measures and, thirdly, we are in the midst of the negotiations on a separate subcommittee, in which all Covid measures are to be dealt with once again. Mrs Colleague, I expect a little more seriousity!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e10537	Mr Koza is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e10558	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! If the crisis has shown something, then how important a strong social state is that we have a health system that, fortunately, is not as broken as in other countries and hopefully remains as strong and healthy as it is that we have a social state and social security systems in which the automatic stabilizers can actually work and work in such a way that on the one hand they protect against poverty and on the other hand secure income and thereby stabilise demand, and that we also have socio-governmental institutions that function. That alone is not high enough to appreciate. It has also been shown, however, that we have gaps in this social state when it comes to providing rapid assistance, rapid support, rapid support when it comes to ensuring adequate protection against poverty and social risks. We have also experienced that the institutions of our social state are partly at their limits – at capacity limits, at the limits of their possibilities. I just think that the AMS needed massive increases of staff in implementing the short-term work scheme and was simply not prepared for such a crisis. That also shows this budget. This budget is not a budget that takes into account the crisis prepared for the crisis, because it has simply not been made for this case either. It is already very comprehensible and understandable for me if the opposition – even I personally and many of us probably – would like to have updated data, of which we can say: That's what we can rely on, that's what's right, that's great. Now we know about what direction it is going. Just, very briefly: I don't know if you know this paper. [[Keeping some expressions in height]] This is the paper of the Fiscal Council of 17th century. In April 2020, for example, the short-term work scheme is still estimated at EUR 5.4 billion. Today we stand at 12 billion euros, and in truth we do not know how much of this short work to this day – listen, learn something! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] – it actually gets beating. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] We know from the last crisis that the short work of approximately 25 to 30 percent has become expenditure-relevant. [[Abg. Worm: This is a self-reliance! It's a self-esteem!]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] We now stand at EUR 12 billion. We have no idea. Will it be 30 percent? Will it be 40 percent? Will it be 50 percent? – That means that we may have deviations of over 2 billion euros. This too is not necessarily a form of serious budgeting, I am sincerely sorry, even though I have the figures in it. However, what we regrettably know is where the direction in public budgets is going. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross.]] The budget service has worked out a wonderful way of looking forward to what the Ministry of Finance has reported in Brussels. The Maastricht deficit is forecast to be 8 percent of GDP, with 30 billion euros, of which 19 billion euros on the expenditure side, 11 billion euros on the revenue side. In the Fiscal Council's paper – and I am quite honestly concerned about this – the fact that social security schemes are likely to have a loss of EUR 5.6 billion this year and that they also raise their debt accordingly. This will be the central challenge for us in future and in the current budgetary policy: to continue to finance the social state and its institutions, which have borne us through this crisis that has supported us, in a sustainable and sufficient way. We need the social state not only now in the crisis, but we always need it. [[Call the FPÖ: Then don't break him!]] The social state is simply not just an institution for combating poverty, for social security, but a key economic and local factor. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the context of this budgetary process and future budgetary processes, we will also need to speak tabooly about old, new and future forms of funding, as we said during the crisis. We will also have to talk tabooly about the adoption of previous budgetary practices, about the zero deficit, and about the future financing of our social security in a strong social economic system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e10640	Member of the European Parliament, Mr Matznetter, has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e10661	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! My previous speaker, Mag. Koza has meant that there are gaps in our state as regards the speed of disbursements. Let us talk about a gap that lies in the administration at the head of the direction pyramid, the Ministry of Finance. I would like this example, Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Double builder has just brought in a little bit further spin: Let us assume that the Republic is a company and all taxpayers are the shareholders the state belongs to. You have a CFO called Gernot Blümel, and the CFO, which is responsible for accounting, explains that any number he submits is wrong because he cannot present correct numbers, and that, if he presented other numbers, they would also be wrong. [[Call to the ÖVP:Superb choice!]] [[Abg. Haubner: That's not true!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] Then it comes to the annual accounts of this company. This House, the Parliament, has prescribed to all major corporations that the Executive Board or the Management Board there should report a situation report, which must also represent future developments. I look consciously toward colleague Dr. Fuchs: What would the auditor have to do if the competent board of directors issued a situation report in such a way as to say: The figures are wrong, I am unable to mention correct figures, and by the way, what the legislator wants is a prognosis, and that is, of course, particularly difficult as far as the future is concerned, so I am not giving a situation report at all! What confirmation should the colleague or colleague give to such a company? - A restricted or none! What is the task of the General Assembly or the Annual General Meeting? – It would have to fail a board of directors because it is unable to meet the minimum requirement regarding what it has to do. The argument that the numbers can change is ridiculous, ladies and gentlemen! You must always announce the right numbers today; you too, Mr Blümel! You won't learn from Candy Crush! Try to really do it once, and do your job! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now I come to the part that is necessary: We have an increase in unemployment to 58 percent, compared to 19 percent in Germany; Hundreds of thousands of women and men in this country are unemployed and have little perspective. Mrs. Dr. Rendi-Wagner rightly called for the first speaker to be: “Austria needs the largest investment and employment package in the history of the second Republic”! – Now, and not again in three months and not with improvement and effort! Now! Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] If we don't do that, we'll crash even further, and if the insolvency issues roll, we'll lose exactly those who can do it. At this point, if the ÖVP Group does not know who to take it instead of Gernot Blümel: Gabriel Obernosterer has admitted that he manages to create the budgets for his hotels. Take the top noster, he'll create a budget! [[Call the FPÖ:Well, please don't!]] You don't have to put a philosopher, take an experienced hoteler, which is certainly an enrichment for this house! Thank you. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] [[10:56]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e10867	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Baumgartner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e10892	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Dear Seers! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to stress once again: The budget decision brings security to all departments. Crisis management is top priority, and the priorities have shifted. The Corona pandemic has changed the political, economic and social conditions. We need to create security of action. In autumn, we will present a budget again, then more data and more valid figures will be inserted. To demand it now shows that the opposition itself has no better solution proposals. I would like to say one thing: The experts of all parties have had different approaches in the budget hearing and have largely agreed that the Federal Government is acting correctly. One must have been against it – it would probably see red everywhere. We link aid packages, take measures to help the Austrians in the crisis to get the country out of the crisis well: Short work, Family hard work funds, Gastro package, the aid fund. Yesterday the parish package was presented, which I am particularly pleased as mayor. Thank you, Minister of Finance! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We also see, however, that it needs a new form of financial management – it needs to become faster, digital, more efficient, unbureaucratic – and it needs full competence in the individual areas. The requirements and expectations of financial management have changed permanently. In order to address these changes, a first important modernisation step has been taken through the organisational reform of financial management. ==References== Financial Organisation Reform Act, which we decide today, can introduce and implement the necessary changes. Dear opposition, especially Mr Krainer and Mrs. Colleague Double Bauer: I am really sure that Minister of Finance Gernot Blümel is doing a really good job at this time of crisis and even after that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e10935	Mrs Prince is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e10956	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Corona time is speaking time. One of the many sayings that the Federal Chancellor has recently taken in the press conferences and interviews about us was as follows: It is the virus which the economy has paralysed and is responsible for the devastating effects on the labour market – although, it is not the actions of the Federal Government, it is the virus itself. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] So it's also the virus that went down the family, social and working life. It is the virus that has announced the unconstitutional and illegal regulations and events, and not the Minister of Health. It is the virus that the police have sent to the streets to prove to citizens who have behaved fully in accordance with law and in their own responsibility that they have draconian punishments – punishments for the life-threatening. That was the virus and not the Minister of the Interior. Many of the theses announced in the countless press conferences have not so much to do with home mind, reason and logic. There would have been only a little critical questions that the journalists and the media did not come up with. Why? – Well, they were, of course, fed up by the extra-tourist press promotion, which was cast over them. This money arrived, in contrast to the money for the companies that are still waiting. “Every number that we know today will ultimately be wrong,” says Mr Finanzminister – understandably, but that the initial figure that the 38 billion euros are simply a wrong number is not understandable now, because this money does not come to the companies. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] To sum up briefly: It's actually about loans and loans, and that's all to pay back. Therefore, the AKV and also the Wifo assume that there will be a time-consuming insolvency, an economic crisis and a recession, because companies will probably not be able to afford to repay the loans that are then demanded back in half a year or a year. Whether the outsourcing of EUR 15 billion to the Black and Green Financing Agency, which is now so loosely implemented, is in line with the constitutional budget rules, will also be checked. The next saying: ‘It costs what it wants.’ - Yes, that's true. It was really all taken in order to continue the lockdown to the limitations that still exist in order to save the sudden new wealth of power for the Federal Government and the sole freedom of opinion and self- praise and to the new normality. There's no cost or effort at all. The shutdown of the borders and the airport of Schwechat, which the Freedom Party demanded very early, has never been implemented in such a complete way, I fear; there have still been flights from China. The fact that the burner may be blocked has long been referred to by the Minister of Health as a populist action of the FPÖ; Closing borders is not so the thing of the green party. Collateral damage has been purchased: the psychological consequences for many, many people in isolation, above all the damage to children and young people who have been totally neglected by the Federal Government; Children who are sitting at home for the third month now, many of them depend on school education, younger children who are now going back to school, but with the most absurd regulations they are very disturbed. The shattering of fundamental rights has been taken into account. – Please, the easings are not a right of grace from the Federal Government! The proportionality of the interventions shall be checked every day. What was perhaps all right in mid-March was no longer constitutional at the beginning of April. In the context of the shattering of the The rule of law, because of the unconstitutional legal bases, lacks in the budget a post for the law enforcement, for the damages that will come on you. The collapse of the economy has been purchased. Two to three weeks the Shutdown could have taken, for a holiday period of two, three weeks, to create economy and society. This time one could have taken to really prepare and learn to deal with the virus. From the beginning of April – there is this thesis of many scientists – the Federal Government has taken a wrong course, from there the Federal Government was on the road as an economic and welfare risk. The Federal Government should now no longer deal with the long-term rights of citizens. Don't even think about introducing a forced app to introduce a compulsive vaccination, but make a good budget, detach the economy, deregulate! Leave Please, increase the bureaucracy – the paper and form economy is now increasing exponentially – and you are deregulating that this short-term work will not be a long-term unemployment for many people! We want personal responsibility at all levels for the parents, for the families – we can take very good care of our children – for the employed and the entrepreneurs. It needs less state and no more. Don't listen to your green coalition partner who wants to extract Karl Marx's concepts right now and there – that's not the solution! We also need personal responsibility and freedom for politicians, even for German Chancellors. Of course, in the Kleinwalsertal, he can go to his voters and his admirers, he is close to the people – but not when people are not allowed the same and then they are blamed for having approached him so much. It also needs freedom and self-responsibility for Vice Chancellor Kogler; of course, he can give a press conference with Leo Windtner, the President of the Public Service, kissing shoulder at shoulder – not when, at the same time, rules for our boys are announced, how they have the initial circle on the football field, that they must not rejoice and how to shower. Of course, it also needs freedom and self-responsibility for our Federal President; he should be allowed to sit long after midnight in the lazy guest garden – but we also! I regard his behaviour and his defense as a friendly, agreed consent to the FPÖ online petition: Stop the corona!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e11045	Next speaker: Mr Lukas Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e11069	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen. We, ÖVP and Greens, have agreed on a common goal, and this objective is: Austria to make climate neutral by the year 2040 and also to say goodbye to oil, gas and coal imports, which cost us billions of euros each year. I've been getting a lot of news in the last few weeks – I don't know how you've been doing – I've been asked: What about climate protection now? Does climate protection die because of Corona? Can we afford it at all? What about your goals now? – My answer is: We have not lost sight of our goals for a second, and this budget also shows that we are still taking climate protection as seriously as before and that even more than ever is expected to do so. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The budget we have been presented strengthens every single climate policy instrument; I would like to give you a few examples. We strengthen, for example, the out-of-oil bonus, which is not only a question of the exchange of oil heating, but also of gas and coal heating. There are still 650 000 oil heating alone in Austria. So far we have had a stop-and-go funding policy; the funding has only been enough for a few weeks. Now we're going to make up the funds, and that's a very good news. In the case of the UFI, the environmental support domestically, 80 percent of the funds go to SMEs. The UFI will be increased by 20 million euros to the legal maximum – which we will certainly increase – to 90 million euros. The UFI finances businesses. An example of a project this year is the brewery in Schladming, which has converted to climate-neutral production. These are all regional projects. Photovoltaic promotion was increased by 7 million euros. There is at last a substantial support for the construction of cycle paths – even in cities, that has not been possible until now – since we increase the funds ten times. What makes me particularly happy as Wiener: The Vienna metro will also continue to be co-financed with 78 million euros in the coming years. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, it is not only about climate protection, but also about jobs and regional value added. Who then changes the oil heating in a house and where are the pellet kilns produced? – In Austria, in Upper Austria, for example, pellet kilns are produced. Investment in climate protection is therefore important not only for climate, but also for the economy. One thing I would like to address, in any case, because here again and again a fake budget is spoken of and that one can throw it in the dungy: I'm calling for a little attention. They are insecure people waiting for us to finally start the photovoltaic promotion. We must now decide on this budget so that we can finally make climate change investments. All those who listen to me now, I would like to say: I can assure you that there will be these funds, they will not be deleted, they will not be thrown into the dung cube. If we decide on Thursday, there will be these funding. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I come back to climate protection, and the question arises: Is that enough to achieve our climate goals? – Of course not! No one says that either. Apart from the fact that climate policy is a little more than simply tipping more money into an old system, it is clear to us that there must and will be a much higher budget for environmental and climate protection, not in spite of the corona crisis, but also because of the corona and economic crisis, as we will solve the economic crisis precisely with climate investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e11151	Next speaker: Mr Josef Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e11176	Madam President. Estimated Minister of Finance! Dear ministers on the government bank! Mr Finanzminister, you have previously been in the framework of Your speech said that tax charges, liability acquisitions et cetera flow or are calculated. – Yes, calculated She, but there's nothing going on, and you know that. I think it would be very relevant to stress this. Mr Finanzminister, imagine that both of us would exchange the roles: You're a businessman, and I'm a finance minister. You, Mr. Finanzminister, or rather Entrepreneur Gernot Blümel, would expect me, I believe, to lead my office as Minister of Finance at this time in a special way: Especially fair, particularly transparent and especially careful, I should be in charge of my office. Especially in a time of crisis, it is important that you carry out your duties particularly transparently and with particular care – and I would do so. Imagine, dear entrepreneur Gernot Blümel, I would have told you eight weeks ago: 10 billion, no, 14 billion euros have already been flown to support you as an entrepreneur – for the money you need so much for bridging. The Minister for Economic Affairs also said: 100 percent of the liabilities now flow quickly and unbureaucratically. Minister for Economic Affairs Schramböck also said: In one, two days it's over! If you go to the bank as an entrepreneur, Mr. Gernot Blümel, then this is how it works: The AWS says: The housebank's to blame! The housebank says: The AWS is to blame! or: Basel III is to blame! The AWS says after the housebank She sent back: We still have to wait for the Cofag! The Minister of Finance says: Eh everything there! Now the last bank official in Goldegg knows that this is all there! The Minister of Economic Affairs nods and says: All right, all right, all right, And the bank official in Goldegg says again: I don't know, I'm not responsible! I'd have to stand straight for everything if you'd become insolvent! – This is the reality, Minister of Finance, that is the reality for an entrepreneur! If I learn – as yesterday – that not 10 billion, not 14 billion, not 38 billion euros, but 500 million euros, I can imagine an entrepreneur who is supposed to get nothing out of the hardening fund, a micro-contractor. You, as Minister of Finance, also know very well: For a fixed-cost grant, for short-time work, for an emergency fund, wherever you apply, you must indicate sales failures. These losses may also indicate you. A decent merchant, a responsible finance minister, a fair, a transparent, and a careful finance minister would indicate three scenarios: from the best case to the worst case. They have mentioned various institutes, and they have everything in them from the best case to the worst case. If you were to offer us these three possibilities today, we would all understand that, but the problem is, you say: It's all right anyway, we don't know anything! As an entrepreneur, I can never go to a bank and say: I don't know anything! – I have now had to budget for the summer, what it looks like when the Salzburg Festival fails, and what it looks like if they don’t turn out. I think that an entrepreneur Gernot Blümel should do the same and he would be equally responsible to these banks. The bank we are talking about is the taxpayers, because they give you the money you should manage responsibly, all the spectators outside. And everyone, even those who have no work, must know: How will it turn out in the future? What scenario do you want? Where do we want to go when everything's over? Do we want to relieve the labour factor so that we bring more people into employment? What do we want to do? – This would be a responsible, particularly transparent and particularly just approach that you should take. I am very sorry about Mr Wöginger's chatter and Mr Maurer's chattering. They say: It's all great anyway, all right!, but we don't get together with the numbers anymore. Today a new State Secretary for Culture is here with us. The cultural budget – and now I am not talking about entrepreneurship – is less than 100 million euros without a corona pandemic by 2024, because inflation is taking place. And now tell me how you want to fatten up the cultural area while at the same time reducing the number of museum visitors, the number of theatre visitors, the Burgtheater visitors and the support for this theatre! How do you want to do this? – This is what interests taxpayers, who are interested in culture, and I think this is particularly important. There is a lack of transparency, there is a lack of justice and there is a lack of solidarity in particular!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e11239	Next speaker: Mrs Gabriela Schwarz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e11263	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It has been a talk in the last days and weeks and also today several times about Fake and the Kubel – I prefer to keep it with the facts. To recall why we now have this budget in this form: The fact is that we are still dealing with a pandemic that is calling for victims worldwide. The fact is that countries that have reacted much later and not as consistently as Austria have much more deaths to complain about. The fact is, Austria responded in time. And we owe it to solidarity – because it has just been mentioned – to all the people who live in Austria, that the measures have been implemented so consistently and that it is now possible to take step by step easing. The fact is that this – we know very well – requires a lot of understanding and patience and that we need to review regularly what steps are taking which consequences. However, it is also a fact that the Federal Government has acted with great responsibility and has done so and the Minister of Finance has also reacted with high awareness for necessary steps and we are being informed here once a month about these steps, namely where money is going. The estimates of the experts, including the fact, are far apart – we have heard it several times today – between 3 and 9 percent. And fact is that we still don't know what things are planned and predictable, but that we will just have to buy and buy certain things. For example, in today’s edition of the “Kurier” we read that Wifo chief Badelt says: “Spending a budget with concrete figures would almost be a self-deception. A collapse in the budget makes sense only in autumn”. – More is, I think, not to say either. Fake, on the other hand, – now I'm on the fake – is that Corona is a flu. Fake is when measures taken to save our lives are called madness. Fake are conspiracy theories and fake is also that there should be forced apps and forced vaccinations. - That's exactly what I'm saying. Ladies and gentlemen, is for the broom. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Finally, I should like to make a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Gabriel Obernosterer, Dr Elisabeth Götze, colleagues: The support for social security contributions should be extended. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that we will all be able to make the comeback for Austria together if we continue to take every step of reason, mind, heart and brain. Thank you for that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[11:20]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e11438	The amendment was presented in just under its broad outline, was also distributed to the Members and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e11465	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen. Watchers! Today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, we are talking about billions and billions of euros. It's unimaginable, I think, for each and every one of us, what these are for sums. I am now thinking of the hundreds of thousands of unemployed women and men, who may now be watching partially and - May is tending to the end - who may not know how to produce the next food purchases. At the end of a month, it can become quite tight for these people. If 55 percent net replacement rate for unemployed people is the government's opinion enough, that's certainly far too little for tens of thousands of people in Austria. I do not understand at all why one of the measures is not implemented. Because today has already fallen: Well, the opposition is supposed to make proposals! – I can’t count how many proposals we have made. For example, 70 percent unemployment benefit would be something that could help right now, but you have rejected it. This is just one example. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Who in this House is talking about women at all? – Except for Dr.in Pamela Rendi-Wagner, no one has done that yet. The Minister of Women has disappeared, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has long since. – Mr Finance Minister, from the budget above all you would be obliged to look at the impact of expenditure on women and men in this country. Each department is invited to formulate proper equality goals, not any flower destinations that are anyway for everything or for nothing. They have failed – the budget service has not failed – that you do the same. Here in the House, we need to look at how much money is spent on who. Women don't need applause if they don't have money for their families at the end of the month, nor do they need the approvals of Mr. Federal Chancellor, who says: It is no shame if the children are sent into the care, to the school, because if they no longer do – he did not say that, but meant. That means that women are supposed to be the wuzzis, should be at the best just stay at home, cook, clean, wash, care for children, care for the elderly, and no longer return to their professions. These are the fifties, we have overcome them! This will not work, ladies and gentlemen, either. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] It is highly necessary that the aid funds also arrive. Last example: A family with two children; he is in short work, she studies. ==References== ==References====External links== ==References== May receive an e-mail: You still don't have any money. You've given everything to be clearly read, but the money isn't there yet. This is just one of many examples. There are 170 000 women who are individuals. Most of them haven't seen a cent at all. – Yes, what do you think? What do the people who watch today and hear from you only flowery words think, but don't see any actions? - It's got to stop!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e11525	Next speaker: Mrs Barbara Neßler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e11550	Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I would like to say something about the gastro package to help the gastronomy, but I would like to make it clear first that our state is not a company. - That's absurd! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Back to the gastronomy: In the last few weeks we have noticed how much we lack our favorite place, our favorite café. I think we're all happy that we can sit back with our families, with our friends in the café. It is not about the coffee being so good or that the food is so good, but our restaurants, our innhouses, our bars, our coffee houses are places where we meet people where we meet people, they are places of meeting. No matter how small the village is or how big the city is, without it an important part would be missing in the social structure that cannot be replaced. If you take a guest house out of a village or a street, you take this village, this district a bit of community and also a piece of the city and community image. Imagine our villages, our cities without the locals! We all know the sad pictures of empty-standing locals who were filled with life before. Our gastronomy is more than just a local. Our gastronomy is much more: She is an employer, social space and also regional infrastructure. The Bregenzerwalder Bergkäse in the inn, the Tyrolean Zirbenschnaps, the Wiener Schnitzel in the restaurant, in the Wiener Beisel: There are so many farmers, bakers, regional supply chains, we can't think of that. A local is so much more. From my own experience, I know that the job in the gastronomy is no easier: the duration stress one has, the working hours, the working hours, the constant contact with the people; and yet behind the gastronomy, behind the local people with great design will, with a large portion of courage and with heart blood and passion that open the doors for us. [[Abg. Loacker: What does this have to do with the budget?]] At present, many gastronists are concerned and look with little confidence into the future. The measures mentioned above, such as the tax reduction in the gas package, the fixed cost subsidies and also the extension of the short work, are first steps, but we must not forget that the development of the landgasthausdeath did not only start with the covid crisis, but that this was a matter before. That is why we have renegotiated the package of measures against inn deaths, and this is particularly important especially after the Covid crisis. What we need are economic measures that, in particular, support this small-scale economy with often family-run businesses with the highest possible focus on sustainability and development and that ensure fairness, because with every local that needs to be locked, we lose charm and quality of life. Every local that locks up is a local too much. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e11605	Next speaker: Mr Erwin Anger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e11630	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Mr Finanzminister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kopf said that what the government and, above all, the Minister of Finance are doing here would be serious. I'd rather say, That is systematically what this Federal Government is doing, what the Minister of Finance is doing here. He submits a budget to us and says to it himself: No number in this budget will vote; but what interests us is the laws of this Republic, we are above the laws. – Clearly, this is the symptom of this federal government. Since a few of my mayors or councillors – Mr. Klubobmann Wöginger himself is a municipal councillor – stand out today and I can also justify and defend this, I can give a little reassurance with regard to the municipal budget. Paragraph 14 of the Community's Financial Regulation reads as follows: ‘If the estimate during the financial year is affected by out-of-office or over-planning expenditure, by additional revenue or by less revenue in its power of statement, or if non-planary expenditure or less revenue threatens to distort the balance of the budget, the Council of the Community shall draw up a supplementary proposal.’ So what applies to a community will probably also apply to the Republic, but obviously not to a finance minister, because he is obviously above the law. I am just curious whether the approximately 2,000 municipalities and mayors in Austria, together with their councils – and especially the ÖVP municipalities – will argue and say in the same way in their communities: We do not make a supplementary budget, there is no figure in this budget anyway. – I am curious about what local authorities in the individual countries will say about this. What is still symptomatic of this government? – As I said, it is above the law: We know that Mr Kanzler moves on a campaign tour in the Kleinwalsertal and does not comply with any of his regulations. The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is looting himself and looking over the hour of suspension. The first regulations of the Minister of Health must be repealed, because they are not constitutional and legal - as is simply questioned as to whether or not constitutional conformity is needed in such a situation! – So: What applies to the population does not apply to this government for a long time, for it is obviously above the law. In addition, if in 100 press conferences something is constantly being announced and the truth content of the person said in these press conferences is also very questionable, then I must also say that I am a little skeptical about the community package. Although it is a requirement that we have set up here several times that the municipalities receive 1 billion euros for investment, for projects, the question will be what are the criteria for these grants for the projects. In fact, if they are the same or similar as we have in the Security Fund, these billions will never arrive at the municipalities. So it is still the big question of how this is designed, whether it really means being honest about how the communities should be supported in projects. But it was at least one step in the right direction, you have taken up our request. That is why another suggestion comes from us, which we have already submitted several times a voucher, the Austrian thousands, the 1 000 euro voucher – once again as a request. [[The speaker puts a panel on the speaker’s desk, which is read in red writing “Austria 1000er” and pictures ten hundred euro cards]] [[Abg. Lightness: Oh, he's bad!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] The municipality of Vienna has already taken over this, has issued an economic voucher, has seen that this is a useful measure. Mr Ludwig recognized this immediately, I hope the Federal Government will recognise it. Each Austrian will receive a voucher of 1 000 euros, which can be redeemed by 31 December of this year for a company subject to taxation in Austria. That would be right in the economy. This would help everyone, that would help businesses, and that would be around 8.8 billion euros that come as real aid in the economy. That is why I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much for your support; I hope you all agree. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] - Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] [[11:33]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e11776	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Klaus Lindinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e11801	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing the 2020 budget here, and this is mainly about important additional investments in different areas, in particular the scope for action in the Federal Ministries. This is about higher investment in the areas of police and justice, but above all about additional investment in renewable energy and in rural areas. Since there are still some technical adjustments, I am tabling the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! In 2017, we started a budget path, which I believe deserves the predicates to be sustainable and generation-friendly. Today, it is said to decide on a budget in which we are addressing all those who need our support – at this point a great deal of thanks to our finance ministers that he has provided so many targeted measures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is not only about boosting the economy, but also about supporting agriculture. Our farmers have themselves in the The crisis proved that they can supply us with high-quality food, but also in agriculture, the situation is increasing, and that is why there is also a need for a tax reform, in the form of a tax reduction, so that we can continue to maintain rural family farms in the future and so that we can also ensure jobs in agriculture. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us take this path out of the crisis together, let us take the path towards successful comeback in Austria together! - Thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[11:37]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e12041	The amendment has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Michael Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e12076	Madam President. Estimated Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I would like to point out that, in fact, I feel it is a great disrespect for both the House and all the people in our country, not only that we are getting a budget that is not substantial, but also that we are actually holding this budget debate at the end of May. It was no longer possible from March, but to discuss and say goodbye to a budget in the middle of the year is in itself a staircase of history. But what I want to look at in detail now is the question – yes! – how much sustainability and how much responsibility there is, so to speak, how much conscious action for the next generations is in this budget. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Jachs and Mr Gabriela Schwarz]] I have listened very carefully to what my green speakers and previous speakers have given of themselves and, honestly, cannot follow the arguments by far. What we see in this budget is that the climate crisis that existed before Covid-19, which exists during Covid-19 and which unfortunately will still be after, is far from being taken into account in the existing budget. Rather, it is that we – you can track this in many lines and in many detail budgets – experience a kind of greenwashing of ÖVP policy. We have experienced that policy that has been in place for decades: very high taxes, very high subsidies, very high subsidies, which are often also environmentally harmful – and then, as a patch, an environmental budget. This patch has grown, it can already be said; but if you know that we spend 4.3 billion euros on environmentally harmful subsidies – ten times as much as the entire environmental budget at all – and then 460 million euros for the environmental budget, you wonder: With what benefit?- Oh, my God! – First we push people out, then we give them back some of the money, then we dirty the environment, and then we try to fix it. That's illogical, that's wrong, that's really old and often stupid politics. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] What the government has not done is: She didn't listen to science. The Wegener Center has made it very clear that it needs EUR 4 billion of investment to achieve climate neutrality by 2040, of which I find EUR 700 million in this budget. Nothing of what science recommends, we find in the 2020 budget. It is therefore not, as it were, comprehensible on a scientific or ecological level, where the traces of a green party should be. The last point, since this has been addressed very precisely by the Federal Chancellor in recent days: We have not reached the alliance of spars either. Rather, we experience an alliance of the cowards when it comes to the federal government. The Green Climate Fund is largely under-dated by the Austrian side. While Denmark, Sweden and the Netherlands, which are called by Sebastian Kurz, deposit up to 850 million euros in order to fight climate change, the Austrian Federal Government is doing so with 35 million euros. There is no gender equality in this budget, there is no significant fight against climate change in this budget. This is much better, and I therefore expect a referral back to the Budget Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e12139	Next speaker: Mrs Elisabeth Götze. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e12160	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Seers at home in front of the screens! For almost three hours now, we've been discussing here, and I've heard a lot of criticism from the opposition: Fakebudget, too slow, bureaucracy and at the same time too little control. – In the Viennese I would say: It's a pity. [[Abg. Bernhard: Go, come! That's...!]] However, the criticism is very contradictory and it shows: We can't do the opposition right. And, honestly, That's not the claim either. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] What's this about? What do we want? – We want to get everyone, the people who live here, the companies in Austria, even the communities through the crisis well, and we want it to go uphill afterwards. [[Abg. Lightenness: The... but different!]] We're talking about this today and the next few days. [[Abg. Belakovich: That it's going up sometime?]] In the afternoon, the debate on the budget begins, now it is about the budget accompanying laws, for example the one that regulates that balance-sheet account holders, balance-sheet account holders, as well as tax advisors and accountants can check the grants for companies. [[Abg. Matznetter: They need’ ma net, the check, this is bureaucratic Murks!]] – So another example: I'm sorry! Thank you, Mr Matznetter. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Matznetter: Who needs a check? Don't tell me...!]] Liquid funds were required, and these are: Grants that are not repaid will be granted to businesses. I would like to add a few points to this corona aid fund, which we are really proud of. [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Matznetter.]] [[Call to the Greens – towards Abg. Mr Matznetter –:Listen, Mr Colleague]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Matznetter.]] [[Abg. Lightenness: Besides, he does not lament, but he notes!]] [[Calls and calls between Abg. Matznetter and Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] [[Abg. Obernosterer: (in the direction of Abg. Matznetter) Let her talk out!]] Mr Commissioner, you may listen once, and then we can talk about it! [[towards Abg. Matznetter]] First: For grants up to 12 000 euros, companies do not need to confirm an auditor, a tax advisor, a balance sheet holder, but there is an affidavit – i.e. no bureaucracy; I am proud of that. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Even very small self-employed people can receive grants: Grants can be applied for from 500 euro fixed costs. All companies affected by the Corona crisis can receive grants, i.e. not only directly affected sectors that have been locked down, but that goes from 40 percent in revenue. A particular challenge, and this was often discussed here, are the companies, which, technically, are in economic difficulties, “companies in difficulty”: There are strict EU requirements to this end. However, we have managed that, provided that the so-called de minimis clause applies, that is to say to small companies, grants up to EUR 200 000 can be granted to companies; only exception: if the company was already insolvent before Corona. Since today the hardness fund has already been mentioned several times: By the way, it covers the entrepreneurial, entrepreneurial wage and not, as has been repeatedly said, all the costs of a company. Thus, if a company uses the Entrepreneurship Fund, it can nevertheless take advantage of the aid from the Coronahilfe Fund. So this is another point that has succeeded. My previous speakers spoke of gaps: Yeah, we're working on filling these gaps if you want. What else does it need? – The municipality package: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] We will talk about it in the next few days, I think on Friday this is a business package. There are sectors that need even more support, we will also talk about it. It is also coming – the Minister of Finance has, I believe, already said – a bonus for the fall-out fund. So: Let's stop yelling and work on it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e12337	Next speaker: Mrs Julia Herr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e12358	Madam President. Dear High House! This is, for me and for all the new Members, the first budget we decide on, and I have to say that I have imagined it differently. However, this is not due to the masks and to Corona, but to the incredible fragility of the ÖVP and the Greens to present us with a budget that is simply and simply outdated, in which the numbers do not vote, cannot vote at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is a budget from February, about which the competent minister himself said he threw it into the dungdo, because it is no longer up-to-date. And, behold, it has apparently been excavated and it is now presented to us. Criticism is simply a matter of saying: Well, there is a license for the Minister of Finance, there is – again again – an overrun authority. Transparency, of course, controls look different. But what this approach to the budget shows us, above all, is how much respect one has for the National Council, namely quite clearly, if one simply gives us a budget, which we have been discussing for weeks, this morning, although we already know that it cannot hold. So how stupid do you want to sell the deputies? But now I'm going to a second point: It would have been time to have had two months to update the budget or to present additional figures, so that we could at all be careful in our work and in any case vote carefully on the budget. Other countries, such as Germany, have done so too; but it has not happened. What has happened in the last two months instead? – Businesses have received, companies that had no revenue for three months but continued to spend for three months. And there was no help. The only thing that could be done was the 31,000. To look at the press conference, which once again has been heard, there will be such unbureaucratic and so quick help, in which the Chancellor and the responsible finance minister have always spoken of 38 billion euros. Now, weeks later, we can see how much money has actually flown: Of these 38 billion euros, 1.5 per cent were only used. – Yes, this is too slow, dear economic party ÖVP! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The companies are gone. There were previously companies that are no longer there. There were previously jobs that were no longer available – this is a social disaster! And what are you doing? Traded Are you really in the two months? What is now in the Budget Support Act? – For example, a reduction in sparkling wine tax. This is a good news to the unemployed, to the people in short-time work, to the self-employed who have no orders, to say: Come on, buy a glass bowl! That's exactly what we need now! [[Abg. Matznetter: Champagne instead...!]] So I come to the third and last point of what this crisis shows us: that the ÖVP itself continues to make client policy in such a time. The sparkling wine tax is reduced, but also its own representation budget is quadrupled; the Federal Chancellor has done so. 1 million euros more for representation, for self-scheduling – that's really, really important now! I'll make you a suggestion: Let us remove this budget for the chancellor's representation costs! Do you know how many self-employed people we can help with this? - Over 1,000! This would be an approach that this country needs: a government that does not enrich itself, but helps everyone who needs help.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e12420	Next item is the report by Mr Werner Saxinger. - Please. – (Abg. Matznetter – in the direction of the Abg, which goes to the speaker's desk. Saxinger, on whose keyword cards point –: The turquoise cartels have the same color as...! - Abg. Saxinger: A beautiful color full of the future!)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e12448	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Do you know what the Austrian word of 2019 was? Ibiza, that's right. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Ibiza!]] This year it will probably become the word Corona – but I personally like a different word better, which has often been mentioned in recent weeks, because my favorite is the concept of prevention spadox. [[Abg. Belakovich: It’s too long, it doesn’t do well with the “Austria ”!]] This sounds very complicated now, but it's very easy to explain. What does that mean? – One has a problem, solves it, and then it is said that one should not have done anything because the problem is hardly present anymore. For Corona, this means: Within the framework of the pandemic, there were scenarios with high expected case numbers, many infected and intensive. We have anxiously looked at neighboring abroad and seen what happens when you wait and not act fast. We have therefore all participated in the shutdown in good time, and for this the population still deserves thanks. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Prammer.]] Fortunately, many measures have yielded, the infection numbers are currently at a minimum level. Now, however, some say that we didn't need all of this, since there are already few infected people – but we only have so few sufferers because we have acted so quickly and decisively! This is the prevention paradoxone, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] But the virus isn't gone, we just got it under control right now. From a medical point of view, we survived the first phase very well. What do we do? – With the declining numbers, the number of so-called experts also increases, and so much knowledge about our lack of knowledge we have never had before. What do you do if you don't know something exactly and can't predict exactly? – No, there is a need for caution and foresight, responsible action, and so we are in the context of the budget. [[Abg. Belakovich: You spread fear!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We continue to move on thin ice, trust and confidence will be very important in the coming weeks and months and will be required of us. We must continue to think in scenarios and let the scientists research. Let us be critical and use our brains in terms of conspiracy theories and half-truths! This year's budget is a number of figures with – in times of Corona – many questionables and uncertainties, but with the firm will to make the future positive, a future that can only be pictured in the present budget due to the crisis with very uncertain figures and data, almost every day already outdated snapshot. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This crisis raises unpleasant questions, ladies and gentlemen, and we will solve them together. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e12541	The next speaker is Mr Gerhard Kaniak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e12562	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! It is quite exactly three months since I was here and expressed my concern that the measures and policies of the Federal Government would cause more damage than the corona virus. Now, three months later, this concern has unfortunately been confirmed from my point of view. What did we bring together? – It has been shown that by keeping simple hygiene measures and the discipline of the Austrian population the Infection rates fell significantly before the lockdown. Yes, of course, the measures taken by the government have reinforced this trend – but, ladies and gentlemen, at what price, with what collateral damage our Austrian people have suffered? There are collateral damage in almost all our areas of society! One area that is especially dear to my heart is the health sector: There entire departments and hospitals were simply blocked, hundreds of thousands of treatments were simply not performed in the last two months. What this means for the patients concerned in long-term, sustainable damage is not yet calculated. In the field of the economy we are discussing today, there are collateral damage to an unprecedented extent, a recession as it has not yet seen the Second Republic. There are hundreds of thousands of unemployed, and tens of thousands of companies, especially in the areas of gastronomy, hotels and tourism, are facing the ruins of their existence. There have also been massive collateral damage in the field of personal freedom: There were bans, restrictions and regulations which were, at best, weakly covered by law, if at all. These are interventions in the fundamental rights of our citizens, as we would never have imagined. Finally, there are also massive collateral damage, sustainable damage to the social state. What's happening there, making this immeasurable debt according to the motto: “It costs what it wants”, this burden for the next generations that will be created there is a long-lasting threat to social security and social peace in our country. – These are the consequences of the Federal Government’s actions. Let us now come to the present draft laws which we are debating here, we are now in the 19th, 20th and 21st. COVID-19 Act. The Federal Government is trying to put a patch on the excess measures in the area of gastronomy – but I ask you quite honestly: What does a host have when the sparkling wine tax is abolished? How much more sales will he make if we double the food vouchers for the supermarket? What does the host have if, instead of 50 percent, the entrepreneur can now claim 75 percent of its business food costs? – Nothing has the host of it! Even the half-hearted reduction in VAT on non-alcoholic beverages, due to its time-limit to half a year, hardly brings about anything, ladies and gentlemen. For most small businesses, the conversion of registers costs more than the innkeeper even saves itself from the lower value added tax. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, dear Federal Government, stop the corona madness, end these overwhelming measures, end the limitations of personal and entrepreneurial freedom, and above all: Quit this completely senseless and harmful mask obligation! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e12617	The next speaker was Mr Maximilian Köllner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e12639	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Dear Seers! Now I wanted to greet the Chancellor of the Federal Republic, but I did not once again manage to speak in his presence – I am sorry, because I would have been delighted if he had been able to speak to us Here in the Hohen Haus, the honor would have been extended for a longer time. At the moment, however, the Federal Chancellor certainly has something better to do, perhaps he is already on a corona tour in the Kleinwalsertal. Today, exactly the person who manages the taxpayer's money, but at the same time says about the budget that has been drawn up, that it is almost a case for the dungy, as we have already heard. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] If I am with you, Minister of Finance Blümel – who does not listen to me –: They look as flexible as dried concrete! For example, if a gastronomy would have reacted as inflexibly to the Corona crisis as you would when creating the budget, we would have already reached a pleite wave. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] From one day to the next, the hosts have had to change their own system for years or even decades: from restaurants that are used to receiving daily in their local guests, to pure delivery and pick-up facilities – and that overnight. At night, precisely these people couldn't sleep because they often had to send or even quit employees in short work and even didn't know how to pay their bills. Small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, such as gastronomy, have degraded you into bitters for alms at the Chamber of Commerce. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's exactly what you wanted, instead of just doing what you should feel committed to in your position, that is to help indecently, quickly and unbureaucratically. This motto is just as a case for the phrase pig as well as “cost it what it wants” or“ We leave no one behind. ” Such statements conjure up a bitter smile in the face, as they must literally take off to the underwear and break through an office-crack so that they do not even enjoy a few hundred euros in many cases. Now imagine, you are the operator of a gym and have not yet been able to lock up at all! I only spoke yesterday to a gym operator from my region, where since the lockdown in mid-March there has not been a trader who has received a small mini payment, but many have not even got anything. How should he survive if he has just invested his savings in his life's work? Mr Finanzminister, you measure by two measures! What applies to others is obviously not true for you – and for the Federal Chancellor, as we have seen in the Kleinwalsertal, either. ‘Max. 4 guests per table except They are German chancellors” – that is currently being used on the Internet. [[keeping an image on which a shaleboard with the said inscription can be seen in height]] You have to attribute this ridicule to yourself. While everyone is still so small with regulations and has to disclose everything for a few hundred euros, you want to present a blank check for 28 billion euros of tax money without correct figures. Where the money flows is unclear. However, the companies do not seem to be concerned. So we're talking about a fake budget – that's just a farce. They face people, but they do not deal with the true providers of our society.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e12711	The next speaker was Mr Hermann Brückl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e12732	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! I would like to speak to my previous speaker from the ÖVP. He said something because he said that this budget was forward-looking: I wonder what is foresight in a budget that the Federal Minister himself casts into the trash bin, because the figures in it are not valid and will never be up-to-date. One of those groups – which has now been addressed several times – which suffers most from this so-called corona crisis is our host and gastronomy. The fact that we also need to pay special attention to this group is because they have not only an economic mission but also a social mission to fulfil. Houses, restaurants, restaurants, bars, restaurants are meeting places of social life, they are places of meeting. With the amendment of the Income Tax Act, the Sales Tax Act, the Sparkling Tax Act, we are to decide today on this so-called host package. To sum up, these measures are somehow positive, but they do not lead to the goal and do not stop hosting. They don't provide a lifeguard for our hosts. It might be nice to get rid of the sparkling wine tax. Some innkeepers will be pleased that the tax rate for non-alcoholic open drinks is reduced or that the agility of so-called business meals is increased. But we cannot secure the survival of our host with this. It is not only that these measures do not take place immediately, it is also a bureaucratic effort due to the fact that the increased administrative burden for the conversion of the accounting system, the registers and the increased social security expenditure is simply not taken into account. Anyone who deals with it, everyone talking to a host knows that the biggest problem is to maintain and secure the liquidity of these restaurants, these gastronomy establishments. You'd have to get over the rounds now. Their businesses have been silent for two months – completely silent – and can now slowly get back up as far as they want to continue at all. We know that there are enough gastro businesses in Austria that have already locked up and can no longer open up because, due to the loss of revenue, they can no longer pay their rent. They can no longer employ employees who no longer pay wages and salaries because the infrastructure has collapsed and broken away. There are about 46 000 restaurants in Austria that provide hundreds of thousands of people with work. If we do not look at the fact that liquidity remains in these farms, it will look very, very bad for our hosts. A help could be that we can make direct payments – which may be staggered by number of employees, that creativity is not limited – but that we can also achieve simplifications, such as the abolition of the absolute ban on smoking and the abolition of this completely pointless masquerade obligation for staff in the gastro-companies. This is the only way to really revive our gastronomy: to give the hostess, the innhouses, the gastro-businesses the greatest possible entrepreneurial freedom. Now that – as has been said – the first host houses have to be locked again, because the guests are not allowed to do so, it is also very useful for economic considerations to say that we say goodbye to this sales-damaging ban on smoking. Tens of thousands of gastronomy companies in Austria, which, in turn, have a lot of family life, need the greatest possible entrepreneurial freedom to get back on their feet economically, thus finally two points that are now on the agenda, which are necessary to ensure the survival of the gastronomy: A rapid, unbureaucratic liquidity bridge shall apply on the one hand. to create and, on the other hand, to ensure the greatest possible entrepreneurial freedom for these companies.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e12787	The next speaker is Mr Jörg Leichtfried. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e12808	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Today is a special day – I would like to mention that. Many thousands of young people in Austria have just met Matura, I would like to say to them: I and all of us in common, I believe, keep your thumbs running well under these special conditions. [[Congratulation with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens as well as the Abg. Hofer.]] If we're talking about the Matura, I think I can assume that most of those who go there are well prepared and will do well. I read in a newspaper: Because of the new system, there are now some who are giving up their matura work after half an hour, because it preserves the testimony for the whole year from worse – I do not know if the point is, Mr. Teaching Minister, but it is true – but it differs something from you, Mr. Finanzminister. The Minister of Finance – whom you see on my left – is currently taking part in the ÖVP Open in Candy Crush and does not have time to listen to the speaker – but that is nothing new anyway. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The difference between the students and you, Mr. Finanzminister, with your budget is as follows: First of all, you are poorly prepared, you have done bad preparatory work – and whether you should be sitting there or getting up after half an hour, this budget will receive a not enough, Mr. Finanzminister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] How good a budget is is really easy to find: A good budget ensures that people get out of the crisis healthy. It ensures that people do not become unemployed, that they have no fears of existence. It ensures that artists are not ahead of nothing. It ensures that our social state is preserved. But if I look at this budget like this – what you can see here at all – I have to say: It's nothing inside, and that's probably the reason you don't trust to present a budget that says anything. It's not that you can't do it; you can of course. They always point their fingers to Germany and think they're doing a little worse. - It's a budget. There you can see where the professionals and where the laypersons are, Mr. Federal Finance Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But these excuses that you are using there – in which you are so half-heartedly supported by your colleagues in the House of Deputies, who know that all this is not the way you say, and you are also trying to hide it – are not just a problem for us and this House. [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: Half-hearted?- Oh, my God!]] It is inappropriate that no budget is presented. It is improper that you refuse to announce concrete numbers. It's inappropriate that you're all trying to deceive. But what's even worse is that you know that what you're doing doesn't come to people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer]] That's why you're afraid to call numbers, Mr. Federal Finance Minister. You know that of the billions you promised by press conference, nothing – nothing at all! – arrive at the people who need it. Mr. Klubobmann Wöginger says: People must be grateful to us and hang flags! – People are now annoyed! People are annoyed that they are sent in circle, hardy, good entrepreneurs are, for example, sent around a further week in the circle because they have forgotten to indicate their birth date. That is the problem with these aids! Those they need don't get! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is in turn a difference to our northern neighbor, and this one is very meaningful: In Germany, usually every 48 hours after the application, the help he needs is given. In Austria it takes 48 hours to complete this request, because it is so complicated and it is not accepted by the Chamber of Commerce, and these are things that you can ruin our country. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Köstinger.]] - Yes, Mrs. Köstinger doesn't fit, she's already linked in. This will ruin our country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] But as always, there is an exception: One of them is particularly fleeting, with the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. While everyone else is afraid of their existence, while everyone else seems to need months to get some money, this government is making a budget change in the area of representation expenditure – 2019 at the Federal Chancellor : [[Intrusion of the Abg. Upper Noster]] 270 000 euros, 2020: 1,200 000 euros. – You can really save yourself, and that is something nobody understands, ladies and gentlemen! That's a scandal!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e12936	Next speaker: Mr Gerald Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e12957	Madam President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, and above all others, at home. I want to blend back a little: 15. March. The plants were closed in accordance with the Epidemic Act. I took the order concerning the district of Lienz, East Tyrol, from where I came from. ==References====External links== Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 2013 on the common organisation of the market in foodstuffs and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 216/2009 (OJ L 323, 15.12.2013, p. 1). “All restaurants for tourist purposes in the Lienz district, in particular accommodation and accommodation facilities, hotel establishments, apartment houses, restaurants, cafes and so on are “to be closed”. – That is to say, one has withdrawn the business base from the establishments with this regulation, based on the Epidemic Act; so far, so good. However, it is also noted in the Epidemie Act that in this case the companies are to be compensated for having a full claim for compensation, which means that there is neither a request nor a beg of the Minister of Finance. I would like to refer to the previous speakers of ÖVP and Greens who are speaking here and who say: Mr Finanzminister, I would like to bow to you because you are so generous and so generous and support us with so many programmes. – That wouldn't have been necessary, on engagement. This would have been much easier by simply implementing the provisions of the Epidemic Act, replacing the merit process and applying for the opposition on the 15th century. In the House of Commons in March, it had not been possible to suspend the Epidemic Act. You did the opposite. Why did you do the opposite? I quote from a comment from the "Tyrol daily", with permission, verbatim: “First, the government forbids the host with legal angular trains the compensation from the Epidemie Act, and then presents himself as a savior of the innhouses. An approach that also suffers from confidence in the legal system.” – Add nothing. You recorded the ball because you want to be the great savior. Then please do the job right! Do not watch how the aid programmes are too short and how they are not implemented act You're reasonable! I now come to the Wirtshaus package, with concrete figures of the Proding tourist advice to three different examples. I can only take one example: a classic house in a central rural location with an annual turnover of 444,000 euros. In this case, the percentage of non-alcoholic beverages is 8.4 percent – these are not fictitious figures. [[Abg. Top noster: 20 to 30 percent!]] The reduction of VAT on non-alcoholic beverages from 20 to 10 percent results in annual savings of 1 400 euros, speaking half-yearly – only until 31.12. – of say and write 700 euros. If you take in the changeover, you have to say that under the line little to nothing remains. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] Whoever actually benefits from this package is McDonald’s, for example. [[towards Abg. Upper Noster]] He's allowed to benefit. This is a McDonald's promotion, but no host promotion! That is why I should like to make a motion for a resolution today and here, which goes far beyond the economic package, and which is intended, above all, to bring about: You have to let the host work! You have to let them do what they can, that is to say, sell food, host, be friendly! If they can do that, they need a lot less alms. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This package relieves the tourism industry and lets entrepreneurs work in particular. They can do that best. I'm asking for approval. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[12:18]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e13128	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Mr Andreas Hanger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e13152	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We are in the general debate on the Bundesbudget 2020, and it is important for me personally to hold a preliminary position on the basis of which we lead this debate. We are debating here on the basis of a very successful budgetary and financial policy in recent years. It is important to me to emphasize this explicitly. We had a general government surplus for the first time in 2018, and in 2019 we also had surpluses in all local authorities, and we managed to return the relative debt of 85 percent to 70 percent. Why is that important? – Because in times of a corona crisis, of course, huge funding is necessary so that we can revitalize the economy, and we can only do so if we have solid financial policies. This was already so in the previous government – I have to look at State Secretary Fuchs – and this is very important because we can now finance our debt with very cheap interest rates, short-term bonds even with a minus interest rate. The international financial markets therefore trust Austria. This is a solid basis for really coping with this crisis. This rescue shield has been stretched over the Austrian economy in a very short time, and crisis management is excellent, as one can see from health data, but soon with certainty also on the basis of economic data. If we have a budget debate, then the opposition parties must naturally be critical. I am very surprised, however, that this criticism is really, in part, completely, completely insignificant. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me give you three examples, let's make it quite specific: Mr Leichtfried has just said that the Germans have made this much different, much better, they have put in a supplementary proposal. Mr Leichtfried is right: ==References== In March, the Federal Cabinet submitted a new proposal for a supplement in Germany. Mr Leichfried, Mr Matznetter, do you know how much revenue the Germans have budgeted?– Mr Matznetter has already admitted that he does not know, it is 33 billion euros. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light snow]] That would be 3 billion euros interrupted in Austria. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Leichtfried and Mr Matznetter.]] Quite honest: This figure is just as incorrect as those currently in the Austrian budget, because the figures are simply not predictable. I would really ask you to take note of this. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Matznetter and Mr Kassager.]] Another argument I heard several times: The technical update of the Austrian Stability Programme was made available to the EU Commission, but not to the Austrian Parliament. – I really wonder, dear SPÖ, dear NEOS, dear FPÖ: Where have you been in the Budget Committee? – Of course, this report was also sent to the Committee on Budgets, and the figures mentioned there were quite clear, and it then makes no sense to break down to 35 000 accounts technically-administratively. The budget now presented is therefore the right procedure. On a third charge, the lack of parliamentary control: Point one: There is a monthly report to the Budget Committee with detailed data on how the corona aid funds are spent, and the opposition is cordially invited to question each number. [[Abg. Cashier: Not detailed!]] The Court of Auditors has the opportunity to examine all these measures. To say that there is no control is very – I wouldn't say: funny – aloof. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] In this sense: The procedure is a good one. We certainly put Austria back on a good path with a healthy optimism, and there would, of course, also be a close to the shoulders in Parliament. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e13239	Next speaker: Mr Hannes Amesbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e13261	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! If one has pursued the speeches of some representatives of the ÖVP and its green climbers in the course of the previous debate, one might think they are world-wide, they speak of another planet, but not of the earth and not of the situation here in Austria. Mr Hanger von der ÖVP has just praised the excellent crisis management of the Federal Government. – Yes, please, this is an insult to those concerned! What's great? Where's crisis management? What about the economic crisis? What about the social crisis? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] What about the crisis of many people? – If you do this for the best, make yourself and say: [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] This is an excellent crisis management, we have everything under control, everything will be good and everything is good!, then I say, ladies and gentlemen, that is an increase of the twenty thousand people who suffer from your irresponsible measures. That's the truth! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if this is all so great and if it says: “Does it cost what it wants,” we help everyone concerned!, why then never hear of the money coming? – I always hear of hosts, entrepreneurs, small businesses, that already filling out the applications is a huge problem and that no money will flow for any reason. I have not yet heard from any entrepreneur that something is coming of these things, this disaster fund and all the aid packages that you are constantly announcing. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] At every press conference, you are verbally smearing with the billions, but these billions do not come to people. That's ignorance, that's a conscious misinformation from you. You know very well that this doesn't work. If you want to help the gastronomy and also many other industries, then stop using your symbol policy! Stop the mandatory facial fads, that really doesn't do anything! Look at how the economy is experiencing! Shopping when you go to a clothing store and try a suit, a sweater or anything and then stand in front of the mirror with this mask is a great thing, for example. This is also a great thing in the gastronomy. I want to look my host in the face when I order a beer with him. That's how it looks at least with us in the country, ladies and gentlemen. Also the 23 o'clock deadline belongs away, that's arbitrary. The plexiglass will not really bring much. The 23-hour deadline is inconvenient, it is harmful to the economy and irrational. By 23 o'clock you can sit in the inn, and at 23.01 o'clock the virus threat is greater. – You don't believe that anymore! That's not how it works, ladies and gentlemen! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] There has now been this situation with the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, who has gone far beyond the hour of suspension. That is only a matter of concern. I am honest to say that I do not feel it is a great tragedy, as the President-in-Office has done, because, as I have said, I consider this 23 o'clock delay to be a mistake, but this regulation applies to all, and that must not be spoken of in small terms. But everyone goes out for defense. By the way, there was the same situation with Sebastian Kurz’ visit to the Kleinwalsertal, as the population was even previously invited to take care of the houses and to pay homage to the great Redeemer. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] This has been an official call from the local community, you know that very well. All the others were in debt: The journalists there, the people were to blame. In contrast to Mr Kurz, the President of the Federal Republic has at least apologised. Mr. Kurz didn't do that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In conclusion, a small comparison to illustrate how this measure is measured by two measures: In Styria, at the beginning of the measures, there was an incident with a countryman of the Freedom Party, with a young countryman who did nothing but meet in a club home for a meeting with three other officials. They drank a beer. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – Yes, that was the great risk of life, that was the great scandal, there were also requirements of withdrawal from the ÖVP. He had to let himself be called idiot and Depp in newspapers several times. There was a het campaign against a young person who made a mistake that apologised but was not taken note of. It is still against him today because he allows himself to sit still in the council and also to run again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] However, if Mr Sebastian does not comply with all the regulations and measures when the President of the Federal Republic of Germany does, it does not matter. With your finger only the liberals are shown, and that is bad, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Change your course! Stop using this masquerade, with this symbol and fear policy! Finally, let the economy live again, and you, Minister of Finance, make sure you have a proper budget! That's all I can say to your budget, because everyone here in the room knows it's not worth the paper, it's for the dreary – you said that yourself – and it won't hold. Please finally change your course!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e13387	Mr Christoph Matznetter spoke on an actual correction. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e13411	Mr Hanger claimed that we all did not know that Germany had only changed the budget by EUR 33 billion. - That's wrong. I'm actually correcting: ==References== In March 2020, in the “Kurier” – from there you have it – Germany was changing the budget by EUR 150 billion. This is a confusion of Mr Hanger. He confused the loss of revenue at the beginning of the lockdown – which was there – with the change in the budget. But that doesn't matter, service is our successes. You do better than you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e13448	Next speaker: Mr Axel Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e13469	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! In addition, Mr Matznetter: In contrast to us, the Germans have already decided their proper budget for 2020 in October 2019. All they do now is state of the Art: Of course, it is done with supplementary budgets on the basis of changes in the situation. [[Abg. Wöginger: Ibiza National Council election, right?]] – We can now discuss it, the fact is that we still have no budget. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] What 180 Members have to discuss today, or have to discuss the whole week last, I have to tell you quite honestly that I have been in Parliament for a certain period of seven years, but I have not yet done so in this dimension of futility like what we did last week and will do this week. We will decide a budget of which you yourself say that you have already thrown it into the dungdo, of which also ministerial colleagues say we are talking about numbers of February. They say: The numbers are wrong, we know, but we don't tell you any current numbers. – Of course, there are the current figures – we can remember the Budget Committee – but they are simply not communicated and not told Parliament. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] This is already a disdain of Parliament. Moreover, I believe that the pudel core throughout history is the empowerment to exceed EUR 28 billion, which can be approved in the Federal Financial Framework Act. The liberals vote against it because that was too little information for us to do with it. The Pudel's core is the Cofag with 15 billion euros. We are sometimes talking about detailed positions at the budget, broken down to EUR 100 000, which is also good. That's going to be discussed. It is of course true that the majority will ultimately decide. That's a good thing. As part of the parliamentary process, there is a great deal of effort from the national councillors of all political groups and the individual positions are being discussed in terms of sense. As has been said, this is partly going down to EUR 100 000, and now we have EUR 15 billion for the free allocation in the Cofag. 15 billion, 15 000 million euros! This is a bit more than the 300 million euros we are talking about today, which are supposed to be fresh money. I'm looking at former infrastructure minister Norbert Hofer now, and I'm new to me that this is fresh money. These are programmes which have long and to a greater extent been addressed under his ministry, the City Billion et Cetera. We are talking about 15 000 million euros of Cofag resources! A company with two boards, a black and a green, partially forgives it. – What does it mean in part? – According to the Rules of Procedure, it is up to 10 million euros in individual mandates. And now you're saying, Yes, there are the detailed reports. – I look at the degree of detail. If these are as detailed as the reports on short-term work, namely a line long – 10,000 companies have requested – this is not the degree of detail we would like to have, and that is our concern. I think that fear is quite right. Please do not come to me with the Supervisory Board and the Court of Auditors and the Advisory Council! The advisory board has no competence at all and is occupied according to good old tradition. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker.]] There are more cages inside than opposition members, there are five seats for the chambers and three you admit to the opposition. The absurdity of this is – Mr Scherak already smiles – the suspensive veto law, so à la Bundesrat: You can move something, however, only if four council members apply for it. Do you seriously think that's an alternative? That is why we totally reject it. The Cofag Subcommittee of Parliament is very important now – and this is what the nail sample will be about to do on Thursday. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] – Well, the junkimation is not all right, Mr. Wöginger. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wöger.]] Of course, it is because you want an excuse in order not to make the subcommittee. I'll tell you one thing: We are not prepared, and absolutely not prepared to allow 15 billion euros to be granted in the framework of the Cofag without parliamentary control. Who is it? – The Cofag is made for larger companies, so they will probably not be left behind. Not with us! That is the minimum that needs to be set up, and that is for you the sample of nails, whether you really mean it seriously, and then we can speak in the Cofag Subcommittee parliamentaryly, not limited by any references to bank secrets et cetera, but in parliamentary terms, excluding the public. Each Member should have access to sufficient information. I'm very excited about what's going to happen on Thursday. It is on the agenda in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e13537	Mr Andreas Ottenschlager has now been reported on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e13561	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! Above all, however, very well-respected spectators! I can replicate on my previous speaker in a moment. Of course, this is very interesting: On the one hand, tell the whole morning that the help is too bureaucratic and there is this form, and on the other hand, you're just going to be here and say: But we want to check everything out. [[Abg. Kassinger: You didn't understand it or you don't want to understand it!]] Now I'm asking You're serious: How should you check something without a corresponding documentation? [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] That is to say, the Minister of Finance also has the function – and I have said this the last time – as trustees for all taxpayers. Even in a situation like this, he must ensure that certain bureaucratic measures also ensure documentation, that those who really need help receive them, and that no abuse occurs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] That's why there are also these conditions, and the spectators should also know: You measure with two measurements here! You say on the one hand: It's too much bureaucracy, but at the same time, you're making yourself up and saying, We'll see exactly who got the money and why. [[Abg. Cashier: But not for 500 euros!]] And I repeat: How can we look at this as a Parliament if there is no appropriate documentation for it? Now to the SPÖ: I really have to say, I hope you don't believe yourself that the criticism of any of the entrepreneurs is taking away from you. [[Abg. Matznetter: That works very well!]] I'm telling you, too, why: In the past, you have proved for many decades that in case of doubt you prefer to put stones in the way of entrepreneurs than to relieve them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Creating and believing that being the spearhead for entrepreneurs in this country is more than credible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] I would think of other words. One thing is also very interesting: In the whole debate on the subject of budget throughout the morning, a criticism of the process, which is also due to the current situation, which is a situation of uncertainty, so that certain figures are simply not predictable, is quite legitimate and one can debate it. But one thing was already interesting: In fact, there has hardly been anyone of the members of the opposition who would have criticized the budget in his priorities. [[Abg. Wöger: Yes, exactly!]] That would allow the interpretation that it is actually a very good budget!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e13675	I now have a speech by Mr Jörg Leichtfried. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e13710	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen. Yes, even if Mr Ottenschlager does not wish to take note of: In our constituencies we are largely addressed by small businesses, individual companies, of course also by workers. If I were now at the Austrian People's Party with this self-understanding, which Mr Ottenschlager gave relatively prepotent of himself, I would seriously worry if the entrepreneurs came to the S & D party and complain about the Austrian People's Party! [[Objection to the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Matznetter: Even from the Chamber of Commerce!]] That is the situation!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e13761	There is now no mention of this. That concludes the debate. I ask the report whether it would like a final word. - That's not the case. Before we enter the voting process, I ask the club members whether a part-session is wanted or whether we can carry out the vote. – There will be no interrupting of the session. We shall now proceed to the vote. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: Draft Budgetary Accompanying Act 2020 in 175 of the Supplements. Mrs Obernosterer, Mr Schwarz, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment. There is also a desire for separate vote. I am therefore going to vote first on the parts of the proposed amendment and on the request for separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Obernosterer, Mr Schwarz, colleagues, tabled an amendment concerning a change in title and amendments to Articles 1 and 2. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Mr Obernosterer, Mr Schwarz, colleagues, tabled an amendment concerning amendments to Article 6. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on the remaining parts of Article 6 which have not yet been voted on as part of the Committee's report. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on and received as part of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. I shall come to the third reading immediately. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval at third reading to a sign. – The draft law was therefore adopted by a majority in third reading. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pamela Rendi-Wagner, colleagues on 'Austria needs the largest investment and employment package in the history of the second Republic'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Draft concerning 19. COVID-19 Act with title and entry in 184 of the Supplements. I am looking for a sign of approval for those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the draft law. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives his consent in third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft law was therefore adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Angerer, colleagues and colleagues on 'Austria-Gutschein'. I call for a sign to be given to those who support this motion for a resolution. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hauser, fellow Members, on 'Real aid for gastronomy'. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Draft concerning 21. COVID-19 Act, title and entry in 185 of the Supplements. If you vote in favour of this bill, I would ask for a sign of approval. – The draft law is adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever is in third reading for this, I would also like to ask for a sign of approval. – The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Draft concerning 2. Financial Organisation Reform Act in 173 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have tabled an additional amendment or amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the part of the amendment or amendment concerned and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. Mr Obernosterer, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an additional or amendment concerning Article 20. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign of confirmation. – This is accepted by a majority. I shall come to the third reading immediately. Whoever gives his consent at third reading, I would like to ask for a sign of approval. – The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on item 5 of the resolution on transparency in the budget annexed to the Committee's report 174. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[36/E]] [[12:45:46]] 6. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (56 and 56, B.C.E._Other Organiser Federal Law, which adopts the Federal Financial Framework Act 2020 until 2023 – BFRG 2020-2023 (182 d.B.) 7. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (55 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Approval of the Federal Estimate for 2020 (Federal Finance Act 2020 – BFG 2020) together with investments (183 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e13987	We shall now come to points 6 and 7 of the agenda on which the debates will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. UG 01: Presidential Chancellery UG 02: Federal legislation UG 03: Constitutional Court UG 04: Administrative Court UG 05: Public Prosecutor's Office UG 06: Court of Auditors UG 10: Federal Chancellery UG 17: Public service and sport
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e14059	The first is Mr Thomas Drozda. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e14080	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever helps quickly helps twice. – The Federal Government has again and again formulated this basically correct confession. Unfortunately, this is not the case. They claim this for the EPCs, for SMEs, for short work, for the artists, for the artists. They also claim to be involved in media and press promotion, and this is an issue I would like to focus on now. We from SPÖ confess that media must also be helped in this crisis, because this time is also an economic challenge for media. This applies to electronic media, whether commercial or non-commercial, as well as to conventional printing media or digital media. In any case, it would be useful to support the services of public media with well-equipped editors and employees with collective contracts. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, if we look at the details of this media promotion, we note that some look completely through their fingers, although a total of 32 million euros are also distributed to Austrian media companies. Since at the moment it is a time that every power in the state needs, especially the fourth, the controlling, it is right to support critical media now. However, the specific formulation makes clear: They want media, but they're not supposed to be too critical. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What else would it be like to explain that – and these are figures that really have to be broken on the tongue – the Raiffeisen newspapers get more money than the “profile” or that six church newspapers, across the federal states, receive almost 650 000 euros? Less money than these six church newspapers get together: the “Kurier”, the “Tyrol daily”, the “Salzburger Nachrichten”, “Der Standard”, the “Vorarlberger Nachrichten”, “Falter”, “Profile” and “News”. They all get less than these six church newspapers in the country. Nikolaus Forgó, Andy Kaltenbrunner and Daniela Kraus have found in the “Addendum” that the corona special promotion in Austria is punishing media that have recently focused on innovation and digitisation. Where is the support of online media? This has simply been ignored and, instead, once again decided to support the printing of paper. Only in a night and fog action were weekly newspapers and magazines included in the promotion. So this is the media focus that this government sets. This may still be understandable for the EIA. The Greens will try to explain the way along and defend it. It'll probably stay in the attempt. I agree that an emergency program is not and may be the long-standing new design of a contemporary media promotion, but what you have delivered there can only be described with a formula from the Tasso: You notice the intention, and you're right.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e14139	I also welcome the three lawyers and the President of the Court of Auditors very warmly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] Next item is the report by Mr Wolfgang Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e14174	Madam President, thank you very much for the introduction at the beginning of the debate, because I believe that it is very, very important for the spectators to explain this too. This general debate took place before, in which the criticism of the opposition was heard very generally and was meant to be a fake budget. This is precisely what we are talking about, namely the specific budget, which is for the individual departments: How much money does Parliament get? How much money does the Federal Chancellery get? How much money does the People's Procuratorate et cetera get? [[Abg. Vogl: And the question of what!]] I think, ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore immediately, because of the structure of the discussion alone, that this accusation of the opposition, it is a fake budget, simply goes into emptiness. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to focus on two organs in my speech. One is Parliament as the supreme body, and the other is the Federal Chancellery. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament is concerned with: How much money do we invest in democracy? I would like to quote a statement by Mr Benjamin Franklin: An investment in education still brings the best interest rates. – This education is for me democracy in politics. Democracy must be further developed, and democracy must be expanded. Who, if not our National Council President Wolfgang Sobotka, is there the most professional? As a historian, he is the one who knows how important democracy is for cohesion in society, and therefore he has let Parliament shine through an external company and thus has re-established Parliament. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Vogl and Mr Loacker]] He has created a unity called democracy. [[Interlocutors Bernhard and Vogl.]] With this democratism, he focuses on something that a predecessor of him, Mrs President Prammer, has already done. He also shows that we are not about distinguishing ourselves from others, but it is about continuing what is good. What Mrs Prammer really left behind as her legacy is the democracy workshop for the students. For the apprentices, Madam President Bures has expanded, and President Wolfgang Sobotka is now expanding it for all classes of society, whether young or old, from student to university graduate, for all classes of society, not only in Vienna, but in all the federal states, because Parliament is there for all, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] This is an important step that we are taking this year and in the next few years, and this is now possible with this budget. The second point I would like to address is the Federal Chancellery. I would like to take up once again a discussion that we had in the Committee on Budgets on this subject. The Socialists asked the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany how his staff now looked out in communication. The Federal Chancellor has thus been given the opportunity to show how the Federal Press Service – that is the summary of all the institutions responsible for public relations in the Federal Chancellor's Office – was built. In 2007, this Federal Press Service was launched by German Chancellor Gusenbauer. At the time, he had just over 50 employees. Then this Federal Press Service was further expanded, under Chancellor Faymann to 65 employees, and under Chancellor Kern has already been increased to 101 employees. Ladies and gentlemen! What did Chancellor make short? – He said first: No, we also have to carry out the tasks on matters. He has dissolved the Federal Press Office as such, and he has also, although it is very difficult to remove officials again, managed to reduce the number of employees in the Federal Press Office again. Now there are only more than 98 employees. He shows that it is important to him that you not only talk about slim structures, but that you yourself are a model. In this form, it is a budget – in the expenditure structure slim and efficient – with which we bring the resources where they are really necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e14236	Next speaker: Mr Christian Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e14260	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated Volksanwälte! Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Estimated members of the Federal Government! We have heard a great deal of criticism of the budget today and have to make it happen over us. Many expressions have been used regarding false figures, the figures are not worth the paper and so on and so on, but the word “fakebudget”, colleague Gerstl, is new to us. However, it may also be a bit significant that the EIA also sees that these figures do not vote. I am of course also pleased that Mr Gerstl has the word ‘fakebudget’ in his mouth. It has been heard that the Republic has been very well boarded by the Corona crisis in recent weeks and that many professional groups have done excellent work. This is the case in the health sector, that is the case in commerce. There are a lot of small farms that have kept open, although the fear of infection has of course prevailed. Of course, there is also a great deal of praise and a great deal of thanks to the over 150,000 public servants in that country. If you look at the budget and say that the numbers are not worth the paper anyway, then of course that's perfectly fine, and that's right. I am already a bit disappointed, but I am also surprised how to thank professional groups such as the public service – if you don't even complain, you wouldn't have to sing at 6 p.m. and say the many thanks you heard – within the framework of this budget. This is excellent, this is really excellent, because if you look at the budget, you can see that there are reserves dissolved, and so the budget of the presidency office increases by EUR 0.23 million. The Federal Chancellery welcomes 50 planning points more. So you can see clearly how the Federal Government is in use. There is no saving, whether with or without Corona, but there is a strong commitment to it, but not to the public officials who have been in need of recovery in recent years – and you know this –; in doing so, the former federal government has already done a lot. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] What are the problems in the public service? – Once in the personnel situation – well, be it! – but, of course, a single right of service for teachers, for administrative officials, for executives is no longer contemporary. The last government has embarked on establishing its own right of service for the executive. This is not actually being pursued in this budget – after which the Vice-Cancellor was also asked. This is sad because there are very, very many measures that should be implemented most urgently for public servants. You can agree to a motion for a resolution which I shall make immediately, in which there are many, many points which have been raised for the public servants since then. years, not to say for decades, are important, and if you are serious, thank the public officials in this way. [[Quoted print version removed]] This is urgently necessary. A few points were taken out briefly: The request calls for a space allowance for the security guard, a system for staff 50 plus, as it is not easy in the executive service, in the fight against crime, when one comes to the years and, of course, is no longer so fit, a creation of security assistants to assist police, police training and judicial training as a public-law service relationship, the protection of privacy – you know very well, the privacy of the staff in the executive is little protected – the strengthening of personal rights in the collection of criminally relevant accusations and criminal prosecution and a heavy-worker regime – this is absolutely a subject that one should finally acknowledge, and now in the Corona crisis one can say thank you: The executive service is hard work! In this sense, I hope to support the motion for a resolution and thank all those who maintain the Republic in the Corona crisis: for the many trade officials, for executives, for public servants, for all the health care doctors – they all did excellent work – and, not to mention, for teachers who have also done excellent work in the crisis and who have taken care of the children so that the parents can pursue their profession. In this sense: Thank you very much! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[13:02]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e14422	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Astrid Rössler has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e14450	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated members of the government! Mr Volksanwälte and Mrs Dr.in President of the Court of Auditors! I can refer specifically to three subdivisions, namely the subdivisions relating to Supreme Courts and to subdivision 10: Federal Chancellery, and forward: The budget in this form is the basis for any state action, for administrative action, and it is therefore particularly important to look at more closely what objectives and measures have been included in the programme of work, how far the government programme can be found and, of course, what verifiable indicators are available for implementation and achievement. It is important here to provide sufficient resources for the highest courts – for the Administrative Court, for the Constitutional Court and, of course, for the Federal Administrative Court – to provide sufficient resources, to see the need for improvement, to anchor measures in relation to a need for modernisation, for example, in the sense of digitization, and, above all, to take sufficient precautions for the corresponding personnel resources, for planning posts and scientific staff. All of this is a good part of this budget. It is precisely this part, the supreme courts, within the meaning of an indispensable principle of the rule of law, namely the withdrawal of an instance, the verifiability of state action, the safeguarding of access to law – these are the principles of our rule of law! – to equip especially well. The second point, which also concerns the definition of indicators and targets, is located in the Federal Chancellery, which has a coordinating function in this regard, namely the implementation of the global sustainability objectives, the 2030 Agenda, or as it is so beautiful: 17 Goals on the way to a better world. The implementation of these sustainability objectives has been launched in Austria with the 2016 Council of Ministers, as a guide and mandate to all ministries, To implement sustainability goals – a cross-sectional matter that is not so easy to find and therefore needs to be very well structured. It is also anchored in the EU 2020 Annual Perspective. Austria expressly declares itself to continue to implement the global sustainability targets. Thankfully, there is the SDG map of the budget service, on which it can be read, in which areas these sustainability targets have already been set in motion and where there is still a need for improvement. Then there is the SDG Indicator Report of Statistics Austria, also a very important tool to see how to move forward in implementation. What sounds a little technical is, in fact, checking whether our objectives for action are met, for example, good infrastructure – not only a global sustainability goal, but, of course, a goal for us in Austria. For example, the road network is good, but energy consumption is far too high in the transport sector and greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector are too high. Sustainable cities and municipalities: We have a very good standard of living, but minus points are that the high cost of living many families, many people who are looking for housing, financially exaggerate that land consumption is too high, but also that the urban wastes rise too much. – This too is something that needs to be accompanied and reviewed through indicators. Finally, as regards the global partnership, it is noted positively that Austria has concluded international scientific and technical cooperation agreements. Austria's development aid, however, declined between 2010 and 2018. It is all the more gratifying that this budget now provides for a significant increase in this area of development cooperation – another reason to support this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e14505	I now come to the floor, Mr Dr Nikolaus Scherak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e14526	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear People's Lawyers! President of the Court of Auditors! The debate about the budget of the highest courts always reminds me a little of the film "And daily the Murmeltier greets". I don't know who everybody knows. There it is: Bill Murray wakes up in the morning and experiences the same day again and again. – I feel so similar when we lead the debate to the budget for the highest courts. It's not my first time, but I've been with several budgets, and it's the same every time: It's usually so that almost everyone says: Yes, the work of the Supreme Courts is important! and when we sit in committee and ask the Presidents of the Constitutional Court and the Administrative Court whether they come out with their money, we always hear either very clear or between the lines that this will not happen. The only thing that has changed: Normally, you are all more ashamed in the front and say nothing about the financial situation, but Mrs. Rössler has now meant that it is all rosy anyway – this is something new, because it is usually silenced here that this is not really happening financially. It is true that even before the Corona crisis, the highest courts had an inconceivable attack on procedures. There were 5,200 cases pending at the Constitutional Court in 2019, with 7,800 new cases at the Administrative Court. Due to The corona crisis has been such in recent weeks that the Federal Government unfortunately has put in place many of the measures that may be unconstitutional. In many areas it was obvious that the measures are illegal or also unconstitutional, and there are now 60 new cases pending at the Constitutional Court. That means that it would actually be high time we finally made available to these two courts the budget they need. It is also this year, as every year, that the Constitutional Court must rely on reserves in order to maintain the ongoing operation at all. The President of the Administrative Court Thienel writes in a paper he has distributed to us literally: For the year 2020, the Administrative Court may, from today's point of view, operate normally. – and we do not start from a normal operation now, but probably from another operation due to Corona – with the existing budget resources in the event of extreme sparingness, we are still in the process of getting out of the way. - Quote. I find this rather embarrassing for us as a Parliament that we cannot provide the two Supreme Courts, the Administrative Court and the Constitutional Court with a sufficient budget. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] This is about the foundations of democracy. I'll tell you something. The problem is not that we have to make inconceivably large financial resources available – these are compared to what we otherwise discuss, Peanuts, as it is about almost nothing at all – but it leads to the courts not being able to carry out some necessary renovation work that they will later occupy planning sites than it would be necessary for them to be able to paint rooms, for example. I don't think that makes sense. I think it's just wrong. It is also not, of course, a question of legal persuasions, as the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has just put it, but it is a question of the highest courts continuing to protect our fundamental fundamental and freedom rights; therefore, as in the budget debate on these sub-divisions, I am bringing in the following motions for resolutions: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] A country which is unable to equip its main highest courts with sufficient budget resources will be terribly embarrassing in the long term. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[13:11]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e14715	Mrs. Federal Minister, Dr. Raab, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e14741	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Madam President of the Court of Auditors. Mr. Volksanwälte! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! As Chancellor, I can give you a brief insight into the Federal Chancellor's Office's budget. The Federal Chancellor's Office's budget has changed considerably compared to the previous year. In 2019, EUR 311.4 million was available, and now, in 2020, the budget is EUR 413.5 million. Why this change? – The fundamental change in the budget structure has resulted from the fact that there have been extensive changes in jurisdiction in the Federal Chancellery. Thus, it is 90 million euros more than in 2020 compared to the success of 2019; on the one hand, this is due to the fact that the area of integration with a budget volume of around 70 million euros has also been added to the constitutional service, whereas competences for families and youth as well as art and culture have migrated. As far as the budget is concerned, two breakdowns have been made, the UG 10, our central UG, has grown due to these shifts. It should be noted – and this is also important to us – that, of course, we continue to budget very cheaply in the Federal Chancellery and that the funds have not been increased accordingly compared to the transitional year 2019. There were only four changes in the following areas: First, the women's budget was increased by 2 million euros. I am very pleased, of course, as the Minister for Women's Affairs, that I will be able to do this on Thursday again in detail how the women's budget or the increase will be used this year. Secondly, There is a digital funding of 15 million euros for media. Thirdly, The Constitutional Service has, as has been said, added to the amount of a total of 3 million euros. The area of integration with a budget of around 70 million euros has also been added. On the latter and also on the largest I would like to take a short look at the area as an integration minister. In recent years, especially in the context of the refugee crisis in Austria, we have built up comprehensive integration structures. As a state, we can be proud of what we offer in terms of integration. It is important to us on the one hand that these integration offers take place, but on the other hand that they are accepted. We call for the acquisition of the German language, the acceptance of our values and also the integration into the labour market to be quite clear and consistent. This is also reflected in two principles in the joint government programme. First of all: Integration through performance. It is not about where someone comes from, but about what he is willing to contribute in our country. Secondly, Integration is a mutual process that requires willingness and efforts from both sides. This requires a lot of self-responsibility, commitment and self-motivation. And: Those who are unable to integrate, those who do not take steps to ensure that the public offers are not observed, are also subject to sanctions. This is the basic concept of our binding integration policy in the government programme. The current budget takes account of these principles, because according to the principle: We are promoting integration, yes, but we are also calling for integration!, there are different priorities that are in line with it. First of all: As the Ministry of Integration, we will use the current budget resources to meet the legal obligations, i.e. the key elements that can also be found in the Integration Act, namely German acquisition, value transfer and labour market integration. Accordingly, we also make integration offers available. In 2019, for example, these were 160 000 consultations at integration centres, 31,000 value and orientation courses, 18 000 German courses – so much happens at our Austrian integration centres. In addition to the legal obligations, we have set ourselves further priorities in the government programme. Of course, German acquisition and German as a common language are and remain the key to integration. We have also seen in the crisis that there is still a lot of need to catch up that there was a lot of need for mother-language information. This mother-language information can be the exception in the crisis, yes, but of course they can never be the rule, because if you live in Austria, you have to be able to do German. It is all the more important that our department now offers German courses up to B1 level after the Social Assistance Reform, thus linking it to the reference of social benefits, ensuring that this offer is also accepted. 60 percent of the courses are used by women, which is why it was and is important to me that the supervision of children in these courses is also possible; I will continue to expand the corresponding offer. Secondly – and this is important to me as an integration minister, but also as a woman minister – is given the following fact: The women are the engine for integration. Women are those who pass on the values within the family that shape the role of children who are often also responsible for the education of children. That is why we need women in the integration process, and they play a very central role in this. [[Call at the SPÖ: There are also fathers, are there?]] In addition, it would of course be important – and this is also seen – for women in particular to benefit from mandatory integration measures. Since we made the integration measures mandatory in the integration process, the proportion of women has doubled in our courses. This also shows – and this is also my experience from the integration area – that it was not natural for many women with migration backgrounds to be allowed to participate in courses. I've often come to know that you said: You don't need to attend a value course, you don't have to attend a German course, it's enough if someone in the family can do German! I am also particularly concerned about the interface between women and integration, which is the subject of violence against women. A non-violent life is the basis for a self-determined life of women. At the interface between women and integration, I will also address the topic of culturally-related violence specifically and use prevention measures to combat culturally-related forms of violence that women are subject to migration, such as female genital mutilation or forced marriage, because it is clear that: Such a thing cannot and must not exist in our society. Thirdly, Let me stress once again how important it is that we live in a country where we also have a strong foundation of values in which we have fundamental values – which we all have to live with – in which we have the equal rights of man and woman as central constitutional value, as well as human dignity and democratic principles! It is also important and right when we convey this strong foundation of values to people coming to Austria and when we emphasize this strong foundation of values in the integration process. In 2015, we started to hold value courses for refugees that have been mandatory since 2017, which was an essential milestone; but not only the courses are important, but also the direct personal encounter is important. We have seen in the Corona crisis that volunteering is of vital importance to the mutual relationship, to society, that the honorary office is the Kitt, which holds our society together in difficult times. From my experience it is so that engagement in the sports club, the voluntary fire brigade or in the music club is already half the rent in integration. That is why the government programme also focuses on this, and I will also pay particular attention to the Office of Honor in the integration work. There is no doubt that it is too early for a long-term assessment of the impact of the Corona crisis on integration at this time, but it was important that we start driving again in integration very quickly, which is why we have raised our integration offers after a two-month break from mid-May onwards and can now again offer German courses and exams with personal contact. Finally, let me say that the corona crisis must not, of course, lead to a reduction in the integration deficits, or even the many integration successes of recent years. Especially in times such as those where the reduction of social contacts is essential in order to protect our health, we must make special efforts to strengthen social cohesion despite the reduction of physical proximity, so to speak. Integration is of particular importance here. The withdrawal into a community of origin cannot be an answer to the crisis. Strengthening the problem of the environment and decomposing damage to integration and also create a breeding ground for extremism and radicalisation, and we must therefore continue to push forward those measures in the government programme that are directed against the problematic environment, parallel societies and all forms of extremism. What was important before the crisis is now more than ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e14777	I can tell you that the motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Nikolaus Scherak are sufficiently supported, properly implemented and are therefore also under negotiation. The honourable Member is now speaking. Ernst Gödl. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e14804	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Dear Members and listeners at home in front of the screens! In the preparation for this budget meeting here in the National Council, we usually also see what happened in the last budget debate, which arguments were used, and we can very quickly see that at that time, in 2018, when we decided on the budget in a different government constellation for 2018 and 2019, there were quite similar patterns of behaviour. At the time, it was the light peace and the matsnetters, who outraged everything in the ground and ground and spoke of a mogel pack. I now say: No matter what the finance ministers' budget would have brought to the house, it would never have met with the approval of some parties in this House. That is what this budget debate is about. However, I am also here, particularly in connection with this issue, as a speaker for the integration and migration of my group, and the Federal Minister has just said very well that this detailed budget integration is being taken into account. This also shows how forward-looking this budget, which we will decide on Thursday, is. The Federal Government has clearly agreed to focus a strong focus on integration in the government programme. This is already documented by the fact that a ministry of its own was set up and, with Mrs. Susanne Raab, an excellent expert in this field was also appointed to the Federal Government. It is also evident now in the preparation of the budget that we are focusing a strong focus on this by clearly increasing the budget by EUR 17.8 million in total compared to 2019. It is therefore a very clear commitment to enhanced integration, to enhanced integration measures, and even if the number of asylum seekers continues to decline in recent years, it remains a very great effort to integrate into society those who, in recent years, especially in 2015, have reached a residence status, an asylum right. Integration is now a very lengthy process, and besides the will and commitment of the individual and in addition to the support of the host society, integration needs, above all, one: She needs time. It also needs a second: It also takes money for us as a state to be able to implement those measures which are laid down in the Integration Act as mandatory: to provide German courses, value courses, an examination and the possibility of achieving a good level of language. It is our obligation to make the structures available to demand the own commitment of the two sides and, in the case of the case where this responsibility is not perceived, also to counter sanctions. It is indeed extremely unsatisfactory – if you are allowed to use figures that were up to date before the Corona crisis – that, for example, 30 000 asylum seekers in Austria had no work at that time, including 10,000 young people under the age of 25, and often one reason is that they have too little language skills and do not find themselves in our society. It is our task, since it is quite clear that the Austrian Integration Fund will be allocated 57.7 million euros, and a further 12.9 million euros will be transferred directly to 128 integration projects by the Federal Chancellor's Office via our wife's minister. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget is therefore future-looking, it stands for a consistent integration policy; consistently providing language and value courses, consistently calling for the ability of the elderly people to be legally resident and consistently also in funding. [[Abg. Lightenness: But this is very optimistic!]] We can and should therefore decide on this budget for 2020.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e14841	Mrs Selma Yildirim is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e14862	Mr President. High house! Dear Seers! I note that Mr Bundeskanzler is short at the budget debate when it comes to the Federal Chancellor's Office and prefers to be represented. In this connection, I would like to make a few points because Mr ÖVP Member Gerstl has praised Mr Bundeskanzler as to whether his economy has been so economical. Ladies and gentlemen, parliamentary questions have shown that Mr Bundeskanzler Kurz has increased his advisory costs by 50 percent. [[Abg. Lightness: Oh!]] It has been shown from the documents available on the budget that he has increased his representation costs by four times by one million euros. We know that short compared to its predecessors, the red Chancellors, has five additional office leaders or cabinet heads. We also know that, with regard to many employees – unlike our chancellors, whether the Christian Kern or Werner Faymann were – he is represented in a transparent way. I recommend you take a look at the homepage. If you just fly over this, you can see how many are actually hidden in specialist departments. We do not, and that is different from you: more transparency! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My speech, however, basically concerns the public service, ladies and gentlemen. We have described the employees in the administration as heroes – rightly. They did great things. We have seen how important a well-functioning public administration is, but we should learn from this crisis. I remember that in the area, it has been gradually reduced for years. This is at the expense of the services and at the expense of the supply. The President of the Court of Auditors is sitting here. Since 2013, the Court of Auditors has regularly criticised the fact that financial management is no longer able to carry out its tasks in many areas. This should concern us. And because it appalled me like many others: It has been dealing – for 20 years, not only with the latest – with the temporary workers also in the public service. Ladies and gentlemen, we need these people, but we hide them under physical burden, cost of property! [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] We have taken their dignity and their safe, good jobs and have demolished them to the manoeuvring mass. We can learn from the crisis: that we should reverse it. It really angers me that in this crisis in which many people have lost their jobs – 533,000 unemployed people, 1.2 million people in short work who do not know if they will find their job again – the budget for the Federal Chancellery will thus increase. That's an uplifting of these people! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is because these people deserve direct and quick help – and not this tactic of concealment! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[13:30]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e14975	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. Mr David Stögmüller. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e15002	Honourable Bureau! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Volksanwälte! Madam President of the Court of Auditors! First of all, I would like to thank the Court of Auditors, you and your entire team, for the excellent work you are doing, and I would also like to speak today on the issue of the Court of Auditors, which is also part of this UG. Thank you very much to you and to Your whole team! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To get right to the point: A sufficient budget of the Court of Auditors is actually the environment and the environment. He also needs it, because the Court of Auditors' duties are very diverse; he examines the economy and economy in the administration. As we all know, the Court of Auditors sets out these principles of economy and economy not only for the institutions under review, but also for themselves, and yet we have to see – and we have noticed this in the budget, especially in relation to the staff of the Court of Auditors – that the Court of Auditors must work with a very tight budget. For example, for a long time it is not possible for him to exploit or occupy all the planned sites for him. That is why I am particularly pleased that the President was not able to send us the happy message in the Committee on Budgets until last week that at least some of the open planning posts can now also be occupied. This is also a very good news for transparency in this country. On the weekend, we have also learned – from you, Madam President; at Ö1 it was – that the Court of Auditors will now also focus on the examinations of the corona measures. This is a decision I can only very much welcome. and that is also right and important, since the Court of Auditors can certainly bring in its many years of expertise and will make recommendations that will enable us when it comes to such a disaster again, to such a crisis, so to speak, to optimize the framework conditions accordingly. However, a sound budgetary provision of the Court of Auditors is also important because we are projecting a number of projects with the Court of Auditors in the government programme: on the one hand, a comprehensive package of transparency, which we want to anchor legally. We will also need the Court of Auditors and we will need a corresponding financial facility. For example, by extending its audit competences, it is a question of bringing more transparency into the finances of companies in which the state is at least 25 percent involved. We are currently working this out, and we will try to implement it as soon as possible. We will also be looking for a discussion with all the parties here so that we can achieve the best possible implementation. The long-overdue control of party finances is also at the top of our list of priorities, so that taxpayers finally know what the parties do with the tax funds available to them for their political tasks. This is a topic at the latest since then, when it was flown up, that ex-FPÖ-Parteiobmann should have paid his private costs with party funds, just like in a self-service shop. This will also concern the Committee of Inquiry over the next few weeks. Therefore, it must be our all concern here in Parliament to provide the Court of Auditors with budgetary resources so that it can remain what it is, a reliable and competent partner, who controls the administration of the tax money and, through his recommendations, points to potential savings potential in the administration. I would like to point out that no euro we make available to the Court of Auditors is a lost euro. If you look at how much money is saved by the implementation of Court of Auditors recommendations year after year, it is clear that the budget we are making available to the Court of Auditors is a good investment which does not cost us as much as it often seems. The more audits of the Court of Auditors can be carried out and the more recommendations for savings in the system can be taken up and implemented by policy, the more money we save at the right places, where savings are actually useful. So once again, Madam President: Thank you very much to you and to Your whole team! Thank you for the work! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e15059	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Philipp Schrangl. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e15084	Mr President. Mr. Volksanwälte! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the TV screens! In this budget debate, I would like to start by thanking Parliament services for their very good work, for the legislative service and also for the budget service, which has prepared and also informed us about this budget, That it just doesn't fit, as we've heard many times today. It is a budget that has been drawn up before the Covid-19 crisis, and the Ministry of Finance, the Minister of Finance and also the government parties, have not considered it necessary to inform Parliament and, therefore, you, ladies and gentlemen, citizens and taxpayers, of the latest figures, unlike what has been done with the ladies and gentlemen in Brussels. We see a number of increases in expenditure, and we see this critically. As far as Parliament is concerned, for example, we need these enormously many new public affairs plans. On the national level, some ORF country studios are also defied as the head of state TV – I hope that this will not become a Parliamentary President TV, but also that the Members will be properly represented in this new medium according to their strength. Good is the improvement of safety facilities, which is something that will be very important. Then we come to a next point: If you look at the budget of the entire federal legislation, i.e. the House, the legislation, then you see that 0.23 percent of the total budget is spent on it. Let us now look a little more closely at how much the Federal Chancellor spends on himself: The Federal Chancellor's Office needs more than doubles, and it's actually a mistake if a single Federal Chancellor needs twice as much for his media work as all 183 MPs combined. Mr Bundeskanzler, perhaps you will shift a little from your new planning sites to the courts, because in the future they will have to deal more often with what you have done for a chaos throughout the press conferences, and turn that stupidity back again! Perhaps you will also hand over a few planning posts from the Federal Chancellery to the Ministry of Finance so that you have the opportunity to pay out more quickly the help you have promised the entrepreneurs for two months! Because Mr Stögmüller first encouraged me a little: These are all things that the Greens would have gone up to the barricades earlier! And now you just agree calmly, and no one says anything anymore, but you are there. So I never want to hear that the Greens are the great corrupt hunters. And if Mr. Stögmüller also takes the name of our former federal party owner into his mouth, who has served from party funds – that will clarify the courts – as always, I ask you: When do the Greens finally say how high Mr Lothar Lockl's Treaty is in the Federal Presidency office? These are public funds, and as long as this is not disclosed, you don't need to talk about other people and other parties in this context at all. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e15129	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Friedrich Ofenauer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e15159	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister! Mr. Volksanwälte! Estimated colleagues in the High Authority House! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Somehow it is as Mr Scherak has quoted: “And daily the Murmeltier greets” – in this case only every year or every two years. Each time a budget is discussed, depending on location, according to the point of view, the skelter comes either from the left or from the right, in this case from colleague Yildirim and from colleague Schrangl – you would only have had to listen properly when answering the budget requests as regards the rental workers, because our Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurzhat also said that many temporary workers were actually employed by SPÖ Chancellors and these temporary workers are now no longer employed, and likewise that the budget item was adjusted to representation expenditure at earlier times, because it was too low budgeted. But if the shell comes from left and right, then we are in the middle and are right. Indeed, the 2020 budget is under the impression of the Corona crisis – a health crisis that has provided us with a global pandemic. The Wifo also confirms – you will have heard – that these figures can change daily due to crisis, but we must decide on the 2020 budget, because the figures that really matter – namely the increases in the area of justice, the police, the federal army, in the field of research and climate protection – are in any case right and correct and necessary. That is why we must decide on this budget. In this way, many important projects are financially secured, and as a spokesman for the field of public service, it is important for me to point out that, for example, in the field of justice, 100 additional staff plans for administrative staff, planning offices for around 40 prosecutors and ten judges, five planning posts for the data protection authority and 96 in judicial institutions are created. As regards the security budget: Creation of 1 184 plantations in the field of executive, improved protective equipment and technical equipment, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is important because the public service – which has confirmed itself again in this crisis – is a bearing pillar of our society. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We've noticed this in the last few days and weeks. It has been shown how important these employees are: from the hospital to the nursing home, police, federal army, the teachers and many other areas. They also represent the Republic as a service provider and have mastered the corona crisis, just as we all do. We can be proud of that. Everyone will confirm that the budget in the current situation needs to be rewritten at any time as far as expenditure is concerned, but nevertheless, Mr Vice-Chancellor, I would like to give you one more thought on the subject of retirement: There will be many pensions in the public service over the next 13 to 15 years. I am seeking to take appropriate precautions by means of appropriate personnel management – as regards the succession of knowledge management – in order to obtain professional competence in the public service. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the Corona crisis, we will have to make many new debts. But it's a lucky thing that we've managed well in recent years, according to the motto: Save in time, you're in trouble. – Even though we now have to accept many debts: We are pursuing a sound and functioning financial policy in the interests of our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e15211	Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e15232	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen The Public Prosecutor's Office! I should like briefly to refer to the Court of Auditors' budget, to UG 06: Of course – that is what previous speakers have already said here; Niki Scherak said earlier that “the Murmeltier is greeting daily” – it’s nice if the Court of Auditors’ budget increases a little. In this case, we move in an area of just under 3.2 percent. This is quite something you are looking forward to, but the situation is still such that the Court of Auditors' plans cannot be used up, and the staff situation is still very tense. The Court of Auditors is doing great work with its resources, but the resources are very close. It is therefore precisely in times of crisis that we need to consider how we can make the resources available to us in order to be able to exercise control over the things that are happening here. Fortunately, the Court of Auditors has announced that it will take a concrete look at the funding of the hardening fund, but also at other measures during the Corona crisis. As a Parliament, it is our concern – or it must be our concern as a Parliament – that the Court of Auditors will continue to have sufficient resources at their disposal in the future. In recent years, we have repeatedly had the situation that the Court of Auditors has had to resolve reserves in order to comply with its work. We are God this year, thank you not in this situation, but we must also see that such a situation will never occur in the coming years. Increased testing effort: On the one hand, we are talking about Covid and all the things that have happened around Covid and, on the other, about measures announced in the government programme. For example, the audit of companies from 25 percent of public participation is to be mentioned, but in addition other things you have announced. We're waiting for the transparency package, I hope it's coming. All of this will also have to mean further investment in the Court of Auditors and more money for the Court of Auditors, so that it does not mean at the end of the day: Yes, the Court of Auditors may examine more, but in fact it can no longer examine because it does not have the appropriate resources. That means, of course, budget and audit tasks always go hand in hand. In the future, we will continue to see that the audit effort is covered on a budgetary basis and that the Court of Auditors can do well to carry out its task. We are going to put in motion two self-employed motions for resolutions today, because we feel this audit is so important and because we feel it is important that the Court of Auditors can also look where so-called audit gaps are at present. This is the case, for example, in the area of local authorities – you know, Madam President – for example: There are areas where it is not clear whether the State Audit Court or the Federal Accounting Court is responsible for the audit. We shall put forward a motion for a resolution to that effect. In addition, we are tabling a motion for a resolution on non-profit building associations. We already know this issue and have discussed it here before. I believe that the work, the audit of the Court of Auditors, especially in times of crisis, especially in times when there is an increased amount of work or effort on the part of the Republic, is not to be underestimated because there are certain emergency measures. Accordingly, we must continue to look to the Court of Auditors in the future to make available to the Court of Auditors the funds it needs necessary to carry out its tasks. You have our full support for this, Madam President, too in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e15288	Mrs Mag.a Faika El-Nagashi is speaking on the floor. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e15310	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Volksanwälte! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The integration budget has an essential task, namely to be an opportunity budget, a future budget, and I would go so far as to say a participatory budget. It can be a budget of cohesion, a budget of inclusion and also a budget of diversity. This is possible through the integration work of the countless projects, the initiatives and the associations involved in this field. In 2020, there will be 128 projects that will be funded or co-financed with almost 13 million euros. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is a considerable number, but I would also like to address those associations, projects and initiatives that have done their work without funding, in the honorary office, and which have also done their work continuously, in the last few weeks, in a despondent and need-oriented way. These are associations that have brought people out of isolation, such as the Association of Foreigners, who, together with the ORF, has provided information multilingually – in Arabic and Farsi – about the social media channels of ORF to inform and keep constantly up-to-date the population in Austria. These are initiatives such as the many mentoring and sponsorship projects that connect people, also virtual, such as the Paten initiatives for all or Start with a Friend. These are associations and groups that have created opportunities for young people to talk about their concerns, concerns and problems, such as the Muslim Youth Austria or the Afghan Youth Association – New Start in Austria. These are associations such as fibel or marriage without borders that have accompanied biological and binational families in this very difficult time, at a time when family members did not know whether they could see themselves again, when they could see themselves again, and sometimes still do not know that. These are associations and initiatives such as mutual learning and Orient Express, which have helped migrants learn German at the time, and have supported them to continue to be independent. These are associations such as the Integration House and the asylum coordination, which have opposed the disinformation and committed themselves to the rights of those concerned. These are associations such as Queer Base, who work with lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans- and intersexual refugees, the Black Women Community, the Islamic Anti-Muslim and Anti-Muslim Racism doctrine, and the Zara Advisory Centre – Civil Courage and Anti-Rassism Work – that draw attention to people's life realities that experience racism and discrimination. Without all these associations and initiatives, which partly do unpaid work, integration work in Austria would not be possible. These initiatives make integration work in Austria feminist, anti-racist, inclusive and intercultural, and that is exactly how integration policy should be in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have therefore also noted in the government programme that integration is a cross-sectional area, that we will increase intercultural competence, particularly in the field of education, that we will rely on diversity management and monitoring in government administration and in close-to-state businesses, and that we have a political responsibility in the fight against racism and discrimination. Integration policy in this sense is women's policy, education policy, social policy, and integration policy creates opportunities, future and cohesion. This is only possible with civil society and civil society, which deserves not only thanks, but also calls for dialogue, for continuous dialogue and for sustainable structures that enable and secure this. That is what I am going to do and we will continue to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e15358	Mrs Mag.a Karin Greiner is speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e15383	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! As the President of the Court of Auditors, I would like to take up a point which the Court of Auditors will also examine, namely the hardness fund, over which 2 billion euros are to be paid to taxpayers. We know that the Minister of Finance has outsourced the resolution of the Hardfall Fund to the Austrian Chamber of Commerce. This is not actually the proper task of the Chamber of Commerce, nor any compliment for the staff of the Ministry of Finance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] How does the management of the hardness fund work? – Many of the people concerned have shown themselves to be really unscrupulous, because they have been proclaimed, the application process has quickly succeeded, they are mainly unbureaucratic. But how do the entrepreneurs, the EPUs, the SMEs see this? – You are faced with a 15-page request, with multiple attempts to make it if you are not really familiar with matter. He was finally handed over to the tax advisors. Even then, requests were discarded on the grounds that they had been incompletely completed. People were sent in the circle. So it took several calls, a large portion of patience. Did it at least pay off? – Unfortunately, no, because the majority of entrepreneurs are still waiting for support. Many don't know if their business will survive, many are really insecure. This morning, the Lord says Minister of Finance generously: Help comes! - Where did the Minister of Finance look? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] He should turn his look away from his cell phone to the real life. The entrepreneurs were asked about this – we have a current survey there –: 66 percent of the EPUs and 63 percent of SMEs do not provide enough for the management of the EPUs. . We from SPÖ have asked the Court of Auditors to review the hardness fund. Madam President, the weekend has also been mediated, and I am pleased that this is also happening. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about tax money and we need full transparency! I would like to address one point which is very sensitive in the field of testing, namely care facilities and care facilities. How did this happen during the crisis period? How did they act? What happened to the caretaker? – The President of the Court of Auditors has taken a position on this matter, and we have already explained this in previous discussions: The focus will not be exclusively on the economic factor in the examination of care facilities. Why not? – Health issues are particularly relevant, and they concern sensitive social issues. In the near future, we have to draw conclusions from the examinations that will be available to us and then make the right decisions. Madam President, I should like to conclude by thanking you and all your employees for their constructive cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e15437	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e15461	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Representatives of the People's Procuratorate! Representatives of the Court of Auditors! High house! Recently we thought of the establishment of the Second Republic from the ruins of World War II 75 years ago. It was also thought of an event that took place ten years later, namely the signing of the Austrian State Treaty 65 years ago. He brought freedom to this new republic and to the people here in Austria, but he was also of great importance to the Austrian peoples. I can speak on this subject because for the first time in the State Treaty, the Austrian peoples were mentioned and their rights laid down in Article 7. Firstly, it is about the right to official language, secondly about the right to multilingual training and thirdly about the right to topographic inscriptions. In these 65 years, a great deal has happened for the groups, the People's Group Act has been passed, the People's Advisory Councils have been established, financial support has been provided for the ethnic groups, and bilingual topographic inscriptions have been introduced in Burgenland and in Carinthia, although only after decades. You could think everything's okay. – Unfortunately, no, it is not. Some time ago, the European Commission commissioned a study to find out how it is about the groups of peoples around minorities in Europe. The result is quite depressing: 80 percent of European groups are at risk of their existence. This is very unfortunate because the uniqueness of our common Europe is the cultural and linguistic diversity. This applies not only to large language groups and cultural groups, but also to many small ones. This diversity is the uniqueness of Europe and also of Austria. In Austria, the situation is similar. We have stated in the State objective that the Republic of Austria acknowledges and supports its growing linguistic and cultural diversity. It is therefore important that we are active there. We did this at the government negotiations. We, colleague Vogluer, colleague Blimlinger, President Sobotka, Federal Minister Raab – thank you for the initiative – have jointly set up a programme which is very broad and very positive in terms of groups. On the one hand, a timely increase in the promotion of groups has been recorded. Unfortunately, because of the difficulties that have been discussed before because of Corona and the financial needs, this is not going to be due to the fact that the promotion of the groups remains the same. This inspires the people's group representatives less, they have hoped for more. It will be necessary in the next few years to increase the promotion of groups, because this is also an impetus for the regional economy and we need it. However, it is also important that the publication organs of the Austrian ethnic groups, such as the “Hrvatske novine” or the “Novice” in the Czech Republic, for example, are secured. These are central leaves that inform the population, and thus the language is lived and also preserved alive. The station is also of central importance in the ORF and the use of the language in the public-law media. Thanks to Federal Minister Raab, she has already sat down with the representatives of the ethnic groups. Important is the permanent dialogue, and important is also in our own interest that we together achieve something for the Austrian ethnic groups. – Srdacno hvala da stand me poslušali. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e15510	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Gerald Loacker. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e15534	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! President of the Court of Auditors! High house! I am referring to division 17, which concerns officials. Unfortunately, Mr Vice-Chancellor is not here, but he will certainly be told what I am saying about it. Many workers are now affected by short-term work, unemployment is affected, entrepreneurs are facing their ruin. Two professional groups are not affected: the public officials and the politicians, who have a fixed income that they can safely expect each month. That is why it is now important to have a look at the service negotiations in autumn and to realize the budgetary consequences of what is being agreed. In the last two years, public officials have had great luck. 2017 was an election campaign, and so 2018 has come a nice, thick salary increase. In 2018 we had a transitional government that had no political back cover, and so it was easy for the trade union to pull the minister some way over the table and negotiate a thick package, although the ECJ had just transferred a 400 million euro package to the public service with the pre-service bill. The costs have grown significantly, the biennial jumps beat on average with 1.1 percent each year, so there is a very high dynamic in it, and now the public service with 1 340 planning points is inflated. It would be time to consider: How am I going as an employer's representative, how am I going as Vice Chancellor Kogler in the negotiations with the union in autumn? For the first time, the employer would have to face the union with his own demands. I asked the Vice-Chancellor in the Committee on Budgets, and he let me know that he was with the attitude of the H.-C. We must not forget that we are not going to be able to do anything about it, but we are not going to be able to do anything about it. - You can't work like that. In the current crisis, two million Austrians were afraid of their financial future – at least! – the public officials are lucky that they are most affected by their incomes, neither unemployment nor short-term work nor bankruptcy, so it would be time to go into the negotiations with counter-claims and, for example, to abolish old heads such as the lunch break, because many people who do not have a job now would be happy if they were to make at least an unpaid lunch break.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e15567	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Olga Vogluwer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e15592	Mr President. Gospod President! Spoštovane lady in gospodje! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Representatives of the Public Prosecutor's Office and Court of Auditors! Dealing with its ethnic groups is the business card of a country. In the present budget: a budget framework that has not been increased for 25 years; in fact, this budget is half worth it. When I meet my family in the morning, we welcome you with a warm welcome: Dobro jutro! Good morning! – as many families do, who feel belonging to a group of people. Yes, 75 years after the end of World War II, these languages of our peoples are still spoken. They belong to our daily lives in Austria and the federal states, and speaking these languages is not a matter of course. There is a warm welcome in every language: Dobro jutro!, as well as a: Lahko noc! Good night! While our children in Carinthia, for example, are unable to attend the Slovenian gymnasium and do not need to take care of the preservation of their school in any way, Czech students of the Czech folk group in Vienna know that their parents and schoolkeepers struggle annually to receive the school. – Both take place in Austria. The loss of applied language, of living culture and tradition, of living education, all of which we cannot offset with money – we can always set the course for a good future! That's what we're measured by. They are these rich languages, these multi-layered cultures and their art, nationally and internationally praised and excellent, this way of life of several cultures: All of this requires space, needs protection, and needs recognition – not only in Carinthia, but wherever people live. Peoples who don't have to worry about their existence and their survival would be our country. For groups of people and their institutions, the budget is always a matter of existence, always a question of self-sacrifice, because what cannot be financially paid is done on a voluntary basis. These voluntary benefits have become stronger every year in all ethnic groups, and they cannot be the basis of what we will see as an appropriate funding in the future. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is our task to give the Austrian peoples a good foundation with a reasonable promotion that we are developing this identity, which belongs to Austria, forward-looking into: Dobro jutro! and not into: Lahko noc! It is our task to build up targeted future-oriented and modern groups of people, and this means investing in competence and identity – competence and identity, two important and ever-bearing pillars of our beautiful Austria with all its people living here, with all the national groups, with all minorities. – Hvala lepa, thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e15643	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Christian Drobits. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e15667	Mr President. Estimated members of the People's Procuratorate and Court of Auditors! High house! Values Watchers in front of the screen! We have the deepest economic crisis since 1945, many are threatened in their existence, whether employees or entrepreneurs, and many want to learn truth and fairness. In this budget they find neither truth nor fairness. As far as budgetary truth is concerned, everything is unclear. There has been a persistent refusal of reality for ten weeks, and this is also illustrated. Fairness can be found It is therefore not because precisely these groups cannot be compensated for since the abolition of the Epidemic Act and are not able to continue to exist. If you look at this fairness and this truth and the top organs, you can see that there is a sharp discrepancy. What is this? First of all: top institutions, federal legislation: Behind me is the third President of the National Council, who was asked something about the staff plan in the presidency office. He then asked a question, and he was told by the First President that this question was not in line with the budget. The agreement under Article 14 of the Rules of Procedure was therefore not made. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] The Second National Council President was not asked for the staff plan at all. – This is not the understanding we want. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As far as democracy is concerned, and Mr Gerstl, I do not think that democracy should be restricted by excluding the two other national council presidents. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another point: President's office, 300 000 euros increase the representation tasks. What does this EUR 300 000 justify if there are no fixed activities at all at present, if no travel is necessary through Corona? The answer from Federal Minister Edtstadler was that this will come after the Corona crisis. I hope that was not the incentive for our Federal President to make a local eye-catching after 23 o'clock. I do not believe that the Federal Chancellor – who is not here now – knows that he has built his own system in the final effect. This system means: Control of control, control of the quota. What exactly does that mean? – It has provided EUR 6.5 million for this area. This EUR 6.5 million includes two small groups each with five members; the number five is expected to be the preferred number. These five members are Think Austria, where Ms. Mei-Pochtler is known to have the chairmanship, and head of the office he pays. And this system, which has been set up there, passes through parliamentary control. In my opinion, we have the task of ensuring that, in principle, savings are made in the system. At the moment I have the feeling – when I look at the budget in which the representation expenditure is now the 4.4-fold, in which there is now a 23 percent increase in the budget in the Federal Chancellor's Office – that the final effect is saving others, and saving in the system is called by the Federal Chancellor: save, but not at the right time now with me, but with the others! – We don't want that, that's pure luxury! I say quite clearly: We do not want the little ones to be saved, but we want the top organs to be saved – and that is not apparent in the budget. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e15741	I call Mr Hermann Gahr. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e15765	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! My previous speaker has made things wrong now. [[Call the SPÖ: The right one said!]] I can see that the 2020 budget represents a special challenge for all here. These are huge challenges, investments, targeted investments in safety, protection against natural hazards, renewable energy, but above all, ladies and gentlemen, we are investing in work and business: on the one hand, in order to secure existing jobs, and on the other hand, in order to revitalize the economic cycle. We should also bear in mind that the Austrian Court of Auditors has repeatedly shown that we are economic, economic and transparent in our country. In this way, I believe that the budget for the Austrian Court of Auditors of 36 million euros – an increase of 3.83 percent – is well invested, because this means that there is planning security and stability. The Court of Auditors can therefore fulfil its mandate. It is about accepting future challenges. In September 2019, before the National Council elections, there was a decision on the Party Law, which includes a ban on large donations and the intensification of fines. It is also important – we have heard this more often today – that we examine the measures that have been and will be taken on the basis of Covid as soon as possible. Madam President of the Court of Auditors, I think that is a huge challenge. In addition, the Court of Auditors will invest specifically in IT. The President-in-Office of the Council noted that: It is about enabling the exchange of knowledge and networking in all areas to avoid double-tracking. Finally, I should like to mention one point: The Court of Auditors has repeatedly said that the number of beds and intensive beds in Austria should be reduced. But something happens from time to time, and in the present crisis, we really needed these bedbeds. In other countries, there has been a lack of what has led to dramatic situations. Madam President-in-Office of the Council, I think you should think about this and see the long-term sustainability and sustainability, but it is above all about providing security to the people when there are occasions and cases such as Corona. Finally, I should like to thank you for your cooperation. I think we should work together to meet the future challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e15799	The next speaker is Mr Wolfgang Zanger. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e15823	Yes, for me this is part of the day, I must say, a day of joy, and I owe it to the President of the Court of Auditors. I would like to tell you and also you, Madam President, why this is so. We have been sitting in here quite exactly 14 days ago, in the Committee on Budgets to discuss a budget which is not worth the paper on which it is written, but we are already fulfilling our obligations. At that time, I asked you to take into account that I think it would be necessary to set up a special unit in the Court of Auditors to examine all the black and green coronak fillers. After closing what you announced on the weekend, Madam President, you have now done so, and you will devote yourself to these coronak niggers. One of these knüllers is the emergency relief fund, so it's about its examination, which you want to critically question; so I perceive it. This emergency aid fund has actually caused a stir, and I then made the effort, to the tax advisors who are known to me, or to ask their employees what it actually looks like with the requests: How many are filed there? How many come back positively? And the impression that I had was – which is already embarrassing enough anyway – that perhaps 10 percent of the applications submitted were made positive. I have to say that this is also true of my perception, because in my environment I don't know a corona infected person, nor a corona killer at all, nor anyone who would have received any emergency help. As we now know, some 120 million euros have been paid by the emergency aid fund, which is worth 2 billion euros. We're still a little under the quota, because it's like almost 95 percent didn't get anything. Now, on the one hand, I wonder how this can happen – and you will examine it, Madam President – but on the other hand, what you're going to do is look at what the financial office is going to do, which is really a very small sum. I would suggest that we examine the Cofag, because it is the real failure of Parliament, the black and green Members, that we have a federal financing agency, a corona financing agency led by two managing directors – of course, a black and a green one; it is about a pot of 15 billion euros, which is practically free-handed, without control – and is not subject to parliamentary law. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] That's the real gnat! I wish, Madam President, that the Court of Auditors should look in there too, very, very precisely. [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and the representatives of the NEOS.]] To the specific budget: President of the Court of Auditors, you have expressed the wish that you can increase from 282.5 full employment equivalents to 290. This is, of course, a legitimate wish and you will find our support for it, because we too have wishes, especially when it comes to extending and extending the audit competences of the Court of Auditors. A long-standing wish, which we have repeatedly expressed in requests, is that the Court of Auditors should examine companies with a 25 percent state participation – not only from a 50 percent point of view. We are going to put forward a motion for a resolution to this effect: [[Quoted print version removed]] I hope for approval and that a long-term wish will finally be fulfilled, but even more so I hope that you will be able to do with all the black and greens. It is a matter for the Commission and the Council to take action in this area. Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[14:18]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e15954	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly implemented, and is therefore under negotiation. The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Margit Kraker, spoke on an opinion. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e15992	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Yes, I want to go to UG 6: The Court of Auditors, on behalf of the Court of Auditors, would also like to thank you for your support and also for the cooperation which is very intensively sought out with all the groups of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors is the control body of the National Council and seeks, through independent and objective reports, to support the work of monitoring the House. If you ask me if I am going to be gay as President of the Court of Auditors when new billions are promised every day, I have to say: Sometimes yes, but of course – and this is undisputed and has been stressed more often – exceptional situations require extraordinary measures. The state's funding and aid measures in billions are now certainly necessary to support the economy and society at this time of the current crisis, because the crisis has all taken us immediately. When you go to billions of packages Yes, you have to also have transparency and extensive control. Yes, say – and here is the Court of Auditors of that institution that is called upon to do so. In view of this large volume of crisis management measures, which the Federal Government in particular has decided on, the Court of Auditors also sees it as its obligation, in part, to control these packages in a comprehensive manner. It is important both to the Court of Auditors and to me that the aid packages arrive at those they are intended to address, namely, the consequences of the Corona crisis. That's where we're going to look. That is why the preparation of the Covid measures will be very busy with the Court of Auditors in the near future. I have already announced a number of issues: the hardness fund, but also other issues, such as the importance of the availability and use of health data, the interaction between the authorities of the Federal Government and countries, and in particular the crisis resistance of care facilities. Many further tests will follow, but we also have limited capacities, with which we can only work in pieces. The aim of the tests is to achieve improvements for the future. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 budget, which is now before the decision-making process, was often referred to as a transitional budget before the Corona crisis – there was the provisional budget – because substantial government projects should only be reflected in the 2021 budget. Now that we are experiencing the Covid crisis, it is only a transitional budget, because we are all currently only in sight and partly in the uncertain budget for 2020. But one thing is certain: As soon as the vision becomes clearer, the basic principles of budgeting need to be strictly respected, and we all need to draw the right lessons from the crisis. High House, in the light of the fact that control is absolutely essential, has a fundamental role to play in ensuring that the Court of Auditors has sufficient financial resources, because it is only in this way that we can consistently move forward the planning of auditing. For the current year, this budget provides for a disbursement of 36 million euros, which corresponds to an increase of 3 percent compared to the previous year's budget – which is basically positive. The financial framework for the following years, however, is not enough for it to be adapted accordingly for the coming years so that it does not lead to real cuts. That is why I say that it will be recognized at the 2021 budget whether, in particular, the Many sides promised to strengthen financial control can and will come to bear. With this budget, we can finance 282.5 jobs – and I have already deposited this in the Committee on Budgets. This is clearly below the level – as we have said more often – of the required staff of 290 full-time jobs, which we strive to fulfill our job portfolio. In addition, there is a debate on additional and additional tasks for the Court of Auditors as a result of a comprehensive transparency and control package with real audit rights for the Court of Auditors on which work is under way. It will also be possible to see the described extension of testing skills in public enterprises, in what form. I note that the Court of Auditors naturally welcomes the extension of the audit competences. Other areas such as housing companies et cetera were also addressed. One thing is clear: Any future expansion of the audit skills must be accompanied by additional resources for the Court of Auditors, if one takes control seriously. In addition, the Court of Auditors is also required to take further measures in the field of digitalisation. The purpose of the Digital Court of Auditors is to release additional audit resources, to use new tools, to expand control tools and to simplify processes. That is why – and I conclude – it comes to the 2021 budget and to a realistic framework for the following years. I would like to thank you once again for your support and for your cooperation. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e16053	Mrs Mag.a Eva Blimlinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e16078	Mr President. Madam President. Dear People's Lawyers! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens, whether TV or laptop, whatever! I am very pleased to speak to the public service today because I am very pleased that in recent weeks, not to say months, we have seen very clearly how central it is that there is a strong state with a strong public administration. Thank God – that is a bit comparable to the intensive beds – did not prevail those who have always pleaded for a slim state and have always organized an official bashing. The public always has an extremely negative image – as I mean quite wrong – of the officials: the lazy officials, who are actually insured and whose number should be reduced. On the contrary: One must strengthen the state, one must strengthen it with the capable and good officials. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] It is also true that there is an increase of 10.9 percent in the public service budget, equivalent to EUR 18.5 million more. This is due, among other things, to the fact that we have a central Federal Disciplinary Authority in the future. This is no longer distributed to all Ministries with their own Disciplinary Commissions, but there is a central authority which will also carry out the tasks necessary for the purposes of disciplinary law in the field of service law. This will also improve. There is also often the action: What can happen to an official? – A lot can happen to him and that is why this authority has also been set up. In this context, it is also to be said that within the scope of the objectives of impact, there is a further development of service law. Anyone who has something to do with it knows that the civil service law and the contract staff law are materials that only a few experts are really familiar and are pervaded by them. This is certainly a question of changing some one or another in terms of the salary law, of simplifying the allowance jungle in the sense of public servants, in the sense of officials and officials. However, what is a special area – and that of expanding in the coming budget year and in the coming budget years – is a modern recruiting. We have a great wave over the next four to five years regarding the end of the civil service. You know officials have no right to retire, they only retire and can be recovered at any time. [[Abg. Loacker: We all cry...!]] [[Abg. Worm: How many do we get back?- Oh, my God!]] Therefore, there must be a development in that we have a modern recruiting to compensate for this deficit that will arise in the next few years. What is very important to us, however, is the efficiency orientation, in the sense of the key figures architecture, in the context of quality assurance. This adds to the objectives of action such as climate change and gender equality. In this respect, we have been on the right track in the public service in the past years and will be on a better path. In conclusion, I would like to say two more points – we have this in the government programme: Officials are the only group for which there is no part-time age, which is a real topic, especially in the field of teachers, but also in the field of care professions. It is in this respect to try to introduce a part-time period for officials. I would like to thank all those who have really done a great deal of service over the last few weeks, and would urge the ministries, the ministers, but also the leaders of the top institutions, to take generous action in the field of premiums and rewards for this commitment during the Corona era. – In this sense I say thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e16153	Mrs Henrike Brandstötter. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e16177	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear listeners at home in front of the screens! After all, it was a commendable step, it was a good idea to help media with a special promotion of 32 million euros in the Corona crisis, but by linking the respective level of this promotion to the printing edition, we are already a little away from a good idea. Between your idea and a good idea not only fits a baby elephant, there you can put a whole range of waste paper containers. Perhaps this is also your social vein, because with the many old papers, all those who have left out can build a warm bed that you have not covered and which you have promoted without regard to losses. That's the whole thing. Small and single entrepreneurs who have to meet very complicated criteria, in order perhaps to get even a handful of alms. Propos criteria: There are significant criteria in media policy that are missing at all levels. Quality? - Misachieved! Trend-setting concepts? - But no! If you look at the funding lists, you might think that those who are most employed by the press board would get the most. And not enough, there will also be an extra portion of those who already have, and also prints of political forerunners. For example, the Austrian “farmer’s newspaper”, in which the ÖVP-Farmerbund is of course also involved, receives 129 000 euros from the corona pot. This is more than the “profile” of EUR 103 000 and significantly more than the “trend” of EUR 42 000. Only EUR 103 000 for the “profile”: with this amount you can probably not pay the 59 PR employees in the Federal Chancellery for half a month. Actually, it's about the budget now, but if you don't deliver new numbers – where we all know that the old numbers won't hold – then don't be angry with me if I don't take it very seriously. I prefer to talk about what I see, and not about your announcements – and what I see is that media promotion is a permanent construction site, but instead of repairing it and rethinking it, you build a media landscape according to your taste. They are just about holding the reins in their hands, and the media makers are supposed to do a good job of promoting them – and then they also ask for court reports. That's important to you. But whoever doesn't trace and who can't be controlled, he's just locked out. Interested in innovation and the future It's not her at all. Online media, podcasts, financing of new formats? – It doesn’t appear at all in your media plans. Platform-independent quality journalism? – I have the impression that there could be such a thing alone, you are overwhelmed. They cross an incredible amount of what would be vital for the development of a healthy media landscape and thus send dramatic false signals to journalists, to the media industry and to society in Austria. And by the way: With all that I have said in the direction of ÖVP, the Greens are always commonplace.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e16222	Mr Mag, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats, Democrats, Democrats) and European Democrats, spoke on behalf of the Group of the Werner Kogler reported. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e16247	Just a few brief thoughts on the budget process here, then on the public service and on the sport, which is already included in this round, I think: It is well known that I have much left for budget processes in Parliamentary operation, and I understand everyone here who means, well, they would like to have it a little more precisely. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that a unique situation continues to create unique measures and circumstances, and that this is not just easy. We would be good at it if we could estimate whether the fall in economic development is 5 percent or 9 percent. – It’s very hard, and I Tell you only if you have 5 percent range, then this is a difference of 20 billion euros in the monetary performance of the economy. Even if it were only 2.5 percent – I congratulate anyone who can predict what corridor this will be in at the end of the year – it is still 10 billion euros – is it 10 billion euros?; yes – with a one-to-one downturn in the budget. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] Now, in the process – because you are trying very hard, I hear from the Social Democrats – I can see nothing great unconstitutional, but I remember a process when, due to Vienna's country elections, the budget was simply postponed for two months, even though it was already finished – it just wasn't going to be presented to the public. In fact, this procedure was unconstitutional, and this has resulted in some of the Members of this House holding 12-hour speeches here, and the first sentence has stated: In the beginning was the breach of the constitution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] So the whole matter is not so holy, and I really wanted to promote understanding that this is not a simple situation for all who are participating and endeavoring here; but I also understand for the other side. Now to the public service: Of course, my thanks goes to the officials, to the contract staff, that even in times of crisis, in many places – in much, much more than you believe! –, excellent work has been done. It is a fact that we have very, very many, if you want to, key resorts in the state structure, which ensure that everything is maintained even under these difficult circumstances. These are much, much more than hospital officials or nurses in nursing facilities, and of course, they go up to the police officers as such. There are actually a lot of others in all the houses, and we have considered exactly how we deal with these key positions in the houses, which were always there and not in the home office or were brought here from the home office when they were needed. This, I think, has worked quite well everywhere – you know that, in accordance with our provisions, we are ultimately responsible for the department and the colleagues in the departments have done so. I think that can be seen, that worked very well – thank you very much for that! This should not remain unmentioned even in these special times. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Otherwise, there are, of course, a number of public service challenges in the future – some of which have been addressed, lastly by Mr Blimlinger – as regards recruitment, for example, when you look at how old age is in public service. I can still remember that 15 years ago it was not recommended that young people study teaching. Now this is turning around, but that is also true in many other areas. In other words, we actually need a good image campaign, that at all levels – this is not just about the A-posts, it's about the B-posts as well as about the B-posts – we're creating a successful recruiting. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] We are fully aware of that. At the beginning of the year, of course, we developed a lot of projects in the zeal of the new one. These now have to be postponed at least in preparation, but we are in the process of resuming all of this. This concerns many areas – I can only strip them here. Overall, in the broad political context, this is, of course, a transparency package; we have the opportunity to discuss it with the President of the Court of Auditors here: Some enlargements and improvements are planned regarding the Court's possibilities and competences. Of course, the transparency package is much more important. It is also about the next great wave, if you want, of anti-corruption training, so that we really get into the highest league in Europe, that is of course a special concern to me. However, it is also about the fact that, if we wanted to break it down into haptic individual projects, we can make decent improvements at the administrative academy, for example, only because a new rental contract in the truest sense of the word could save half the rent and we really do budget expansions when it comes to the courses on the qualifications. This is already very good there, and there is the ambitious program, which once again greatly upgrades, currently under the title Austrian School of Governance. So there is still a very long list to be presented now – but I think I am well advised not to stretch you for too long, and I have also done the topic of sports. I would just like to say one thing because the Court of Auditors as the so-called institution of this House has already been mentioned: This is why it is always so important to me, because its work is welcome from the point of view of the government and for reasons of efficiency. There are not so many institutions in the Republic that one can say that the euro invested and also the items on which it is concerned will certainly have a high profitability. Although there are many such jobs – much more than they are suspected – there are a few where we do not need to think about this profitability at all. This is the Court of Auditors, which is the large-scale audit in the field of finance – it was not always popular, but there we have left decently – and these are all areas of anti-corruption. These areas create efficiency, as the euro is in itself well invested, and we have of course not changed our opinion at all, and we will continue to work on these projects. Now for sport: This has not yet been debated, nor do I know how far the honourable Members intend to do. I can only say that we have done this in detail in the Committee on Budgets. I can also repeat the invitation – the date accreditation is just taking place – that we also meet with the sports speakers to go through all the projects more closely. This is certainly a subject in which we can move very much together. I would just like to add a few words of the many, many projects. I'm not gonna do this great, but you know how important they are to me. There is the daily movement unit with the project children move healthy 2.0, which has a concrete name and has already been developed. This is extremely expandable, and so that we can continue, we have put a budgetary focus on it, which is now leading to the fact that we already have 6.4 million euros available this year, and we should continue to do so. Even if the whole thing was not possible in the planned form now, I would not rework the money, but we can simply put an even greater focus at the beginning of the new school year and use the funds very specifically. I have already contacted the Minister for Education in this regard. Another project, whose value is often underestimated, is free swimming courses for all. Of course they also cost something, but if you offer the wide-ranging – which has always been called for, but only partially implemented, and these courses should be offered down to the smallest – you can do something, For drowning is the most common cause of death in accidents of children under the age of five. This situation can and should be improved. We have then, and this is of course particularly important to me, a few other priorities that may surprise you little, but they will be reflected in the budget if you read carefully: We want to support the sporting events we support, such as the investment buildings, but above all these are projects that are only about the promotion of events, so that there are much more green events. We want the organizers to meet more and more corresponding criteria. This can start at the very big international events and goes up to the club festivals, if we are all there, including all local authorities. This then goes from procurement and material management to waste management and so on. I looked at this myself at a few larger sports venues: There's something else going on. So I wouldn't underestimate it, it doesn't cost so much, and we want to dive decently. Then there are three areas that we have dealt with in particular concerning gender equality and the promotion of women in sport. There are individual positions for these projects. Because now Mrs. Raab is sitting next to me: Another focus, which it also has in the department, concerns the question of integration, integration and sport. We've already started a project, so we want to do more. You can see that again and again in the club life, which can result, and there is certainly great potential. Finally, I did not want to mention that we also have a major role to play in including and thus promoting the sport of disabled people, and this is also reflected in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e16371	Next item is the report by Mr Christoph Zarits. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e16395	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister! Estimated Volksanwälte! President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to join with Mr Vice-Chancellor's speech and to speak on the subject of sport. As a sports speaker of the People's Party, the topic of sport is of course very important to me. Of course, we are in sports, as in many other areas, because of the corona crisis, facing massive challenges, difficult tasks which we did not consider possible three months ago. But I would like to take the opportunity to thank all sportsmen and all those who volunteer in the clubs and in the municipalities. You have made a significant contribution to the crisis in Austria, because on the one hand you have adapted the behaviour in sports and on the other hand you have shown a great deal of understanding of the situation. I mean, thanks belong to those who have adhered to the rules of conduct in sports. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Sport has new challenges, new tasks – I have mentioned it – and sport needs our help in the crisis. I think we all have to tackle – I call the communities, I call the countries and also the Federation – in order to jointly support the sports clubs, the associations, the athletes and sports in general. I am very grateful to Mr Vice-Chancellor for having already reported on the NPO support fund in the Committee: 700 million euros will be available for clubs, for associations, for athletes and for sport in general to deal with the crisis. We will take the decision on Thursday, hopefully a very, very broad decision, perhaps we will even be able to reach a unanimous decision here in plenary for the associations and for the non-profit organizations, which would be very, very, very much worth me. A warm thanks to Mr Vice-Chancellor for the preparatory work, the directive is being drawn up and I think it will be a very, very good package. It is important for me to address the 2020 budget in the field of sport. It's important that we have more money at our disposal. Some projects have already been presented in detail by Mr Vice-Chancellor. The essential thing is that in schools, with the unit of movement we want to introduce across the board, we ensure more movement. Other projects concern the construction of sports sites infrastructure and, of course, the promotion of youth and performance sports. We also want to promote the sporting events, Green Events. I think it is important and also a goal of all of us who love the sport that does the sport that consumes the sport – be it on their own sports grounds in their own community or even at large sporting events – that we can soon see sports events in reality and consume sports again. I think that's all our wish. In the past, Mr Vice-Kanzler, together with the other members of the Federal Government, including the Minister of Health, has already adopted very, very, very many easing arrangements, with which it was then possible to gradually re-execute various sports. We are also more in the sports field than other countries. I mean, if we all stick together, if we support sports in this difficult situation, if we give the sports clubs and the volunteers in the clubs the necessary support, then we also look forward to a good future in the sports field. I call for the support of our voluntary fund and, above all, the associations and associations in the sports sector on Thursday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e16450	The next speaker is Mrs Nurten Yılmaz. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e16474	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Volksanwälte! Who made the newspapers in the Corona crisis? Who delivered the packages with the truck? Who's on the construction sites? Who has ensured that our hospitals and care facilities work in the crisis? Who was sitting at the cash register and still sitting at the cash register and sweating all day under the mask? Who has harvested and delivered the food in recent weeks? – That was not the Members of Parliament, it was not the Federal Government, it was the workers in our country. These were women and workers, workers with migration biography, who kept our country running during the Corona crisis. We can be proud of what has been done in our country. It shows cohesion, people stand together in solidarity, no matter where they are born, no matter where they are born, no matter what their first language and no matter what their passport. That's why I demand respect, respect. the hard work done by workers and migrants in our country on a daily basis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I call for a policy to promote this cohesion rather than split it by origin. I demand that this work be finally paid well. I demand that migrants are at last legally equal and can speak with us when it comes to our country, and not citizens are second-class. I expect the policy to finally take note of the truth that we are a country of immigration and, accordingly, to invest in our common future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] All of this would be the task of a wise integration policy, Mrs Minister, unfortunately nothing of it will be found in your budget. They simply carry on the black and blue symbol policy. This symbol policy has nothing to do with serious integration policies in the interests of people. Finally, make consistent policies for those who want to build up in Austria and keep our country running every day! It is not just about integration, it is about participation, equality and life opportunities. I would also like to make a promise here: The workers, whether with migration biography or without migration biography, are already the main victims of this crisis, whether through unemployment, short work or risk of bankruptcy; and they are also particularly exposed to the virus. We do not allow the cost of the corona crisis to be borne by these people. These 38 billion euros will have to be paid for by those who already have a lot of wealth and do far too little for our common good. We Social Democrats are always on the side of those who carry out the newspapers, deliver packages, crochet on construction, care for our parents and keep the trade running. We will not allow them to pay twice and triple for the government failure.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e16528	Mrs Mag. Agnes Sirkka Prammer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e16553	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Volksanwälte! Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! If in recent times the talk has been about sports, then mostly in connection with what is not possible right now. This budget, which is available to us today, is, however, what will be possible in the future. It shows us where the path will lead in sports. In total, the sports budget will be increased to over 140 million euros. For general sports promotion alone, funds will be increased by more than 10 million to 54.2 million euros. The aim is to maintain the level of sport promotion. In order to ensure the efficient and targeted use of resources, it is necessary to focus on transparency. However, it will also pay attention to the increase in the proportion of women, both in the functionaries and in those bodies that grant the promotion of sports. It is probably undisputed that there is still a huge scope for design. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Investment in sports sites will continue to be promoted, not least because of the resources available to the local and regional economies. In principle, the promotion of sporting events, of major events, remains another goal. If these can take place again, sustainability criteria will also play an important role. Continued It is also invested in the promotion of top athletes, in their training and career paths, both for athletes without and for those with disabilities. Even before people in Austria have noticed by the distance measures how important sports and movement are in everyday life, one of the priorities in this budget has been focused on the field of movement in everyday life. Moved from both programs, daily sports and exercise unit and children healthy, the program has been brought to life in a healthy way 2.0. This improves the federal range of movements in kindergartens and public schools. The funding for children to be healthy has been substantially increased – Mr. Vice-Chancellor has already said it. We are thus approaching the goal of the daily movement unit for all children and young people with a first important step towards the end of compulsory schooling. Many people have now discovered more than ever that sports is more than just a nice side-by-side thing. In the budget, this has already been valued in such a way and so it should also be implemented, in addition to the rapid acute support of the associations by the NPO package.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e16604	Mrs Steger, I think you want to make two requests. That means I'd suggest making that very quick. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e16625	Mr President, I will try to speak faster. Mr. Sports Minister, you're still here! I listened very closely to you in your speech about the sports budget and I have to say that I am really unscrupulous – for the simple reason that, if you have listened to you, you have given the impression that there is no such corona crisis in sports at all. You seem to lack perfect – perfect! – the awareness of what kind of The state of the Austrian sport is currently in place. You are talking about gender action, about green events in the sports sector and everything else, just not about the urgently needed aid measures that sport now urgently needs, Mr Minister! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Shetty.]] They're talking about an appointment coordination with the sports speakers that didn't exist at all at all. There was no sports committee, there were no talks with the sports speakers. They do not even have the interest in proposals for possible measures, of which there would probably be many from all sides. You have no interest in hearing this at all. As a former professional sportswoman, it hurts me when I have to listen to this, Mr. Minister. It is absolutely incomprehensible! All the measures you have taken with this government in recent months, from the outset in the field of sport, are incomprehensible. At the beginning of the crisis, you once closed everything completely, no more sports were possible without differentiation, no matter if leisure sports or professional sports, whether indoors or outdoors, whether individual sports or team sports; it didn't matter. They did not talk to the relevant associations, to the athletes, to those directly concerned. They have not managed to do so until today that gymnastics can take place again in schools. This is something people do not at all understand that the children are being held in their places and must no longer move in the schools. Especially now, even the WHO, together with the Olympic Committee, has sent out a letter saying that children must finally be allowed to move again, that it is important to integrate sport into the corona measures, because this is important for health, for defence.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e16661	I should like to ask you to submit the request. We only have a few seconds.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e16676	I come to the request, at least once to the first request; perhaps I will bring the second after the urgent request. I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is urgently necessary for the health of our children. I'll come back to the rest after the urgent request.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e16727	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. The application is sufficiently supported and properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The second request then follows later. I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 6 and 7 of the agenda so that the urgent question requested can now be dealt with at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:00:31]] Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Mag. Jörg Leichtfried, colleagues in the Federal Chancellor on “It takes real help instead of empty promises – the failure of the short government in the fight against economic and social crises” (2064/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e16761	We come to the urgent discussion of the written question 2064/J. As this has now been done to all the Members of Parliament, their reading by the scribe is not sufficient. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e17043	I give the floor to Mr Magistrate. Easyfried as the first questioner for the reasons of the request, which according to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). [[Abg. Easy: To the Rules of Procedure!]] [[Abg. Matznetter: (on p. (The sitting was suspended at 3 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)]] – For business treatment? - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e17096	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you for asking me to speak. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would just like to draw attention to the fact that this is a question to the Federal Chancellor and that the Federal Chancellor seems to be missing. I would therefore ask you to clarify how to interpret the absence of the Federal Chancellor, and to continue the meeting if the Federal Chancellor is there. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e17181	I welcome the Chancellor and the members of the Government and give the floor to the petitioner, Mr Klubobmann Leichtfried. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e17203	Thank you very much, Mr President. I can also thank President Hofer for having worked so quickly and the Federal Chancellor has immediately appeared. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! A speech by this House on the morning did not leave me alone. It was August Wöginger, who meant that people are “thankful. ” [[Call the ÖVP:Yes!]] I have the feeling that this is at least a big trick. We have very consciously chosen this strong parliamentary means, a request to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, because land up, downland in all federal states, in all districts, in all cities, people are not grateful in all villages, but are fearful and angry because nothing comes of help. The help packages do not work. The package of measures may work in front of the cameras when holding press conferences, but where the money is needed, it does not matter. The government has promised: “It costs what it wants!” – And what happened? – In Austria as many people are unemployed as never before in Austrian history, in the history of the Second Republic. Two thirds of small entrepreneurs say: These aids are not sufficient. The art and culture scene feels abandoned. People who are sick don't come to hospitals. People who want to say goodbye to their father, their mother, their husband, their wife were not allowed to do so. Many of them have relied on the government's promise: “We don’t let anyone down,” and they’re disappointed now, more than disappointed. Unbureaucratic assistance was announced: 6 000 euros for three months. We remember that was one of the first things that were announced. You, Federal Chancellor, have said this: 6 000 euros for the first three months, up to 2 000 euros maximum per month for each individual and each EPU. Nothing of that has arrived. Nothing has been done by the people who are trying to lock up their business. Nothing has happened to the people who locked up their inn again. Those who believe in unemployment have nothing to do with it, perhaps there will be a little more. Nothing has been done by those who are in short work and who make too little money. Hundreds of thousands of companies fell into the first wave of support and were not promoted in the second wave. A maximum of EUR 150 million was paid out from the beginning of March. That's not even 8 percent! That's not even 8 percent of what people need for survival, ladies and gentlemen. Many individual entrepreneurs received small deduction payments. This is not just a March spread by the opposition; it is confirmed by the University of Vienna. Above all, it is confirmed and it becomes clear that the resolution body, the Chamber of Commerce – for which reasons it has always been selected – is completely overburdened. She has since become the braker between the disbursements and the recipients, and the bureaucracy required here, the bureaucracy that must be done by the companies, prevents her from leading her survival struggle wisely, ladies and gentlemen. I spoke to a Bucker confectioner this weekend. He said he was sitting with his tax advisor for one week in this application for the Chamber of Commerce and in the end they threw him back because the date of birth was accidentally stated wrong. Yes, what is that quality of service, ladies and gentlemen? That's how you kill businesses and entrepreneurs in our country! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's threatening to lock up. They are and are threatening fears of existence, of which you seem to have nothing to do with them. How many people do you know who can't sleep any more at night because they don't know how to finance their business, their apartment, their loans back? How many do you know about them? And how many do you know about those who don't know who to turn to? We held a discussion this morning, in which Mr Ottenschlager said that no entrepreneurs would contact us. – They do very well, and I can read to you something that touched me particularly; an older couple turned to us. They operated a winery until they retired, and in the pension – because we know how high the pensions are in this area – they decided to open a breakfast board in 2015. They then came to this coronaschlamassel and believed, no one will leave behind and everyone will be helped. The lady writes literally: My husband and I also thought that at least we would get an Obolus from the hardening fund – rejected because we have two tax numbers, but no second health insurance in the commercial bank. Once again we fall through the rust and can now pay off the conversion with our sour earned pension pension. Please send a good greeting to Mr. Kogler and to Mr. Federal Chancellor, who said: We don't let anyone down. - Quote. I should now like to extend these greetings to you, Federal Chancellor. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] These people, the many who are affected, are about a quarter of the Austrian jobs, and it turns out that others are doing better. I can well remember what haema has sometimes been looked at in Germany – especially during the last government you have held. I can well remember how we – not we, but you – claimed that everything is going better with us and everything is made better. – Now there is a significant difference between Austria and Germany: In Austria it takes 48 hours to complete the application, in Germany after 48 hours you get the help. That is the difference, and I think that is better done there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One can also see from the example of short-time work that it is hectic, and that it is enormously hectic. The project announced 10 billion euros for short work. – 10 billion euros! The Minister of Economic Affairs stressed that this was paid out within 48 hours. What is reality so far? – Of the 10 billion euros, 273 million euros were paid, ladies and gentlemen estimated. This means that companies don't have enough money to pay their employees. This means that these employees don't have enough money to pay their loans. [[Abg. Haubner: I don't know!]] These are the effects of this slowness. You are fully responsible for this slowness, you have to say that quite clearly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haubner: I don't know!]] I would ask you to consider You're one: Finally, do something against this bureaucracy insanity on these questions! Finally, do something for people to get their money quickly and effectively! I read about a gastronomy who had to submit a 20-page detailed request. He says if we all do this, the officials in the Chamber of Commerce will need ten years to finish all this. In Salzburg, a managing director tells us that he had to fill out a 12-page form for each individual of the 1 300 employees, 1 300 times 12, which also includes a managing director for a long time, valued ladies and gentlemen. Is this the short, fast help you promised? Is this the effective help you received in 61 – or was it 63? – Have press conferences spoken? – No, this is a shock to all those who need help, and nothing else, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! How does it look with the help of the people who have become unemployed in the Corona crisis? Have they received help so that they can get 55 percent of what they had before? - No, I don't. Have they received help to get them back into new jobs quickly? - No, I don't. All you have done so far is to prevent unemployment benefit from 55 to 70 percent. That would be the minimum you can do quickly to help these people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The same applies to the arts and culture sector. An essential part of public life in Austria was abandoned, and it was not helped. The same applies to the risk groups for which we have desperately tried and fought for better protection of members of people belonging to the risk group. You didn't want that either. I have a slow feeling that you're not about helping a lot of people. As always, they are concerned with helping those whom you have committed yourself politically. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is the wrong thing to do at this time. What is added then is that not only do you not help, but people simply don't recognize themselves because of what you take action anymore. They no longer know what to do, what is safe and what is less safe. They no longer know how to behave, and then they are punished because they may be wrong. But who can still know if, for example, there is a distance of 1 meter in the outdoors when walking and in the inn you can cuddle together to four? What kind of medical, health sense does that make? What's the consideration of that? Or: How can it be that we open the borders to Switzerland, but not to Slovenia, with everyone knowing that Slovenia has fewer people per 100 000 inhabitants? What's the medical sense behind that? – You can also do this from Switzerland, which is also bordering Italy – for those who do not know. [[Abg. Schmidhofer: You can drive over to Italy!]] However, the problem with these measures – and the lawyers among you will agree – is that people who are affected by these standards and subject to them who no longer understand and are confused by these standards also lack awareness of the legality of these standards. In order to put on another bottle of water to the I, the following thing happens – and this, Mr. Federal Chancellor, was, I think, already a big mistake from you, about which you might say something else –: There was a short time when the border with Slovenia was open. I myself am from Styria and think it's similar with the Carinthian friends: Some have taken advantage of this to quickly buy cheap cigarettes. Now you can differ your opinion as to whether this is happening, you can discuss it. But what happened when they came back was interesting. All these cigarette buyers, who probably did not talk to anyone there, wearing protective masks that no one has met, have had to go into quarantine for 14 days. You, Mr. Bundeskanzler, who twice crossed the Austrian border from Germany, do not seem to do so, and that is unfair. Either laws and rules apply to all of us, either politicians and politicians are also a model to comply with this, or we can stop these measures and save us all. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e17319	Mr Bundeskanzler is speaking on behalf of the European Parliament. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e17341	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Dear Austrians! But, of course, Mr Leichtfried, thank you very much for this urgent question and for the opportunity, perhaps, to answer a few questions that you have asked, and perhaps to describe and correct some of them from my point of view. [[Call SPÖ and FPÖ:All, please! Everyone!]] First of all, I would like to say that I understand that many people have an insane tension, a great deal of trouble, and the situation is not easy. We just don't experience anything everyday. We are experiencing a global pandemic and a global economic crisis. I don't think I'm the only one in this room, even if I'm one of the youngest ones who can say: We all haven't had to experience such a thing so far. When I followed your remarks, Mr Leichfried, I almost felt that we were in a worse situation in Austria than elsewhere. But the truth is: As dramatic as this global pandemic is, as dramatic as this global economic crisis is, I do not understand a country I would like to exchange with. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Despite all the need for opposition work, despite all tension, let us take a moment of keeping up despite all the emotion! Let us all try together here in Parliament across the party borders, without emotion, without aggression, just one moment in us and let us ourselves be quite honest – let's go, deputies! – to ask the following question: What country in the world would we like to exchange with right now? Ladies and gentlemen, I can tell you, because of my work as Foreign Minister and as Chancellor, I have many contacts, many friendships, many acquaintances all over the world. At the moment, I hardly think of anyone who tells me it was better for him than with us in Austria, and I haven't met anyone who told me: You in Austria are worse than us, elsewhere in the world. – We should look at that with all our emotions for a moment. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] It is precisely because I can't answer the question with which country I would like to exchange, because I don't think so, I would like to get rid of a great word of thanks again today: a thank you to everyone in the health field, a thank you to all those responsible who have made decisions at this stage, also to you in the opposition – we have taken many of the decisions unanimously – a thanks to the Austrian people who have acted exemplaryly, and to all those who have jointly contributed to the fact that we have had fewer than 100 newly infected per day for three weeks, that we are one of the countries with the lowest rates of infection in all of Europe and that we are one of the countries that can get up the fastest again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fire brills]] Thank you to all those who have contributed! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that after the Lockdown phase we were able to return to the opening phase faster than others. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Now after this phase of opening up, it is important that we take the next step, towards self-reliance, towards few rules, little clear rules and a maximum of freedom, self-reliance and home sense. [[Abg. Loacker: “A little clear rules” is true!]] This will be the next step we want to take in June, and it will be good and right for our country. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Now to the economic situation: We are not just dealing with a global pandemic, we have to do it – and it is not meant to be small – with the biggest economic crisis we have ever experienced. This is reality, worldwide, and allow me to take a short look beyond our borders too: [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Although we are an export-oriented country, although we are a tourism country – two areas that are particularly affected – the EU Commission believes that there are two countries that will be most economically affected by this crisis, namely Austria and Germany, and that there is a handful of countries with a comparatively low fall in GDP. [[Abg. Hafenecker: The EU does not even...!]] Austria is among these countries. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I can also tell you why this is the case: First, because we responded quickly and quickly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Thank you all – you have taken all the measures you are now criticizing, and I am still grateful for them. [[Abg. Belakovich: That's not true!]] Secondly, because we have tied up a 38 billion euro aid programme, which is of course much larger than in many other countries, because we are a strong country in terms of finance and economy. Ladies and gentlemen, don't misunderstand me. I understand everyone who says: Why isn't the money in the account yet? Why can't this go faster? Why can't this be easier? – The authorities work day and night that it works, but it is a challenge to bring 38 billion euros to the man in accordance with the law and as much as possible to safety. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light snow]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brügl.]] Ladies and gentlemen, since I have known you for a few years: They would be the very first to make us imaginable if the money were not correct or were to come falsely or unjustly to anyone. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Call at the FPÖ:Since when is the economy...?]] [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] That's why I'm staying with you. I have full understanding for everyone who is impatient, who says: Why hasn't the money reached the account yet?, but I also ask and advertise that we live in a rule of law and no one can freely distribute tax money, but everything needs a legal basis and also a minimum of control. I would like to go a bit further, because you, Mr Leichtfried, also made your accusation, no one has received help, no one has ever arrived at anything. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Call the SPÖ:... no charge!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Here too, if you allow, I will take a short look at the details. For short work: Over 100 000 applications for short work have been submitted. To sum up, we are talking about a million jobs being saved in Austria. Austria is the only country in Europe with a net replacement ratio of up to 90 percent. [[Call the FPÖ:Falsch!]] It all sounds crazy now, but in detail it means that there are up to a million people whose job could be saved through it. Even if he worked for 0 hours before the crisis, the truck driver, who received EUR 1 590 in salary, received EUR 1 350 during the crisis. The waiter, who earned EUR 1 300 net before the crisis, even if he worked for 0 hours, received EUR 1 200 net in the crisis. You can say anything bad, Mr Leichfried, but call me a single country in Europe with a similar short-term work model! Call me a single country in Europe where more than a million jobs could be saved, and call me a single country in the world where people in this crisis, even if they haven't worked one hour, have received 90 percent of their salary! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Don't get me wrong! This is not the merit of the Federal Government. It is the Austrian taxpayers who have made this possible. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It is the Austrian taxpayers who, at this time, are helping the workers who need the support to keep their job and still get 90 percent of their salary, and it was the social partners who negotiated this model of short work. That is why a great deal of thanks to the Social Democratic representatives, who jointly worked out, negotiated and finally decided on this model with the economic side! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I'm going a little further into the details, to state-guaranteed loans and tax receipts. There were over 250 000 applications which were usually processed within a few days. It has been 6 billion euros spent on taxes, and I would like to take a moment for the international comparison: In total, there are four countries across Europe, one with our comparable model, with 100% state guarantees for loans. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] The third area I would like to go into detail is the fixed cost grant. They have referred to this and even mentioned an example of a small accommodation company that does not receive anything. Please give us the contact details of these people! We would like to inform them that this is false. The fixed-cost grant, as it exists in Austria, exists in Europe at the present time only and alone in another country. So here we're not at the best four, but we're with the best two. In addition to Denmark, we are currently the only country with a fixed cost allowance for businesses of up to 75 percent of its fixed costs. Here is also an example: What does this mean for a accommodation facility? – A housing company, which was closed for a few months, with a turnover of 2.5 million euros, will replace the costs for the employees with the short work. In addition, there are, of course, fixed costs. If, in this company, sales of EUR 2.5 million in three months amount to EUR 80 000 in fixed costs, this company will be replaced by almost EUR 60 000 of fixed costs. Yes, it is not 100 percent, but it is hard earned money from taxpayers, and it is only in one other country in the European Union in such a way that there is a comparable model. This too should be expressed openly here. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion: Yes, it is a challenging time, and despite all the help it will remain an extremely difficult phase for Austrian companies, it will remain a difficult phase on the Austrian labour market, it will not be easy and not easy. I do not want to mention any of the challenges, either for businesses or for employees. But I am just as sure that one needs it now, namely optimism, courage and confidence. What it does not need is the deterioration of systems that are positive across Europe and the world. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We all can and should get better. I am grateful for all the suggestions that have been made for the various ministries in recent weeks, whether they came from the Chamber of Commerce or trade union, whether from government parties or opposition parties. Of course, I am particularly grateful to the people and to the many entrepreneurs who have helped to build these systems so quickly, but also to make them more effective and better. I am perfectly aware that the situation is a difficult one, but without courage, confidence, optimism and looking forward it will not go. Thus, especially when time is difficult, especially when the tension is a great one, especially when the anxiety threatens to prevail, perhaps a moment of keeping up, of looking in all directions of the heavens and the honest question: Which country of the world do we want to exchange with at the moment? – That’s what you’re thinking, that you can be grateful to be Austrians. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] I'm for my part it's every single day. Thank you. [[Prolonged condolences with ÖVP and greens.]] I can now answer some specific questions that have been sent to us in writing. [[Abg. Belakovich: Some?! Please, everyone!]] [[Call the SPÖ:All!]] I come to questions 1, 2, 4, 6 to 9, 13, 14 and 23: The Federal Government's primary goal in dealing with the corona crisis was and is to save people's lives and avoid an overload of the health system. The Austrian Federal Government has already put in place early measures to prevent the most uncontrolled spread of the disease. ==References== A special meeting of state crisis and disaster management on Coronavirus was convened in January to discuss the outbreak of the virus in China and the expected developments in Europe or Austria. Work in the Coordination Committee on State Crisis and Disaster Management continued during the following weeks. In this context, both the expertise of the Federal Ministry of Social Affairs, Health, Care and Consumer Protection as well as those of all the other Federal Ministries and Services concerned are included. In addition, formalised regular exchange with the countries and their authorities is taking place within this framework, so that their experts can also be involved. There are also a wide range of national and international bilateral contacts to discuss current issues from different points of view. The medicine with all its disciplines gives here a very important input. However, the information taken into account goes much further: from the social partners to experts on the economic and labour market, mathematicians, data experts to many others who have gained their expertise in the situation assessment. Of course, an exchange with the companies concerned of all sizes is also taking place with employees on labour market issues. All these different expert opinions and assessments are processed in order to have the best possible basis for decision. Finally, politics must always weigh all opinions and interests and then make decisions. These have always been unanimously met by the government. At this point I would also like to thank the members of the National Council for their good cooperation. I would also like to express my thanks for the fact that some decisions could even be made unanimously. Public life began with 16. ==References====External links== At the same time, quarantine measures have been put into force for particularly endangered regions. As the fall in the number of infections in international comparison shows, we have acted quickly and properly, and the measures have been taken by the population to a very high degree. The success of these measures is reflected in the current figures and in the fact that Austria can relax the restrictions earlier than other countries. We continue this successful path in an informal exchange with the countries within and outside Europe, all of which can now go up early by the early response to the corona virus. These First Moves include, for example, Israel, the Czech Republic, Norway, Denmark and other countries in addition to Austria. The low number of deaths also shows a good deal with this crisis. This made it possible for us to support other European partners and even to include patients from countries such as Italy, France or Montenegro. Questions 11 and 12: Our goal was and is to ensure the best possible protection for all those who are on the front line in action against the corona virus. In particular, we have experienced very large international demand in the field of protective equipment. This also led to bottlenecks with us. Therefore, in the first phase, the procurement of protective equipment for Austria was carried out via the Austrian Red Cross. We could thus quickly guarantee large quantities of high-quality material for health professionals and those in direct contact with patients. In addition, I would like to highlight the many Austrian companies that responded quickly to the crisis and produced protective materials, and all those who responded quickly here and today produce high-quality masks, plexiglass signs, breathing equipment and others. Question 15: I would like to point out that compliance with the measures and recommendations of the Federal Government by the population is the most important step in the fight against the virus. Anyone and anyone who adheres to the rules of conduct can help to control the virus. I ask for understanding that the exact answer to the question cannot be made in detail because of the lack of competence of the Federal Chancellery and the different executive authorities in the federal states. Questions 16 to 20: In the Kleinwalsertal, we have experienced mistakes in the preparation process, so we started working on the same night so that something like this can no longer happen. The entry took place in agreement with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the German authorities. I was accompanied by two employees from my cabinet as well as my personal protection in civilians. Questions 21 and 22: When it comes to border openings, we need to find a good balance: On the one hand, we need to ensure that we reduce the risk of entering Covid as far as possible, on the other hand, we naturally want to restore travel freedom as soon as possible. As early as mid-May, thanks to the good development, we were able to take first steps of relaxation, on May 15th. In June, there will be border openings to all those countries that have a similar good development of the new infections as Austria. We have already been able to reach agreements with some countries, and we are working on it with our other neighbours. Question 24: I should like to ask for an understanding of the fact that this question cannot be answered, since it does not concern the area of execution of the Federal Chancellery. Questions 3, 5, 10, 25 to 28: The primary objective of the measures was to react quickly and thereby save human life and prevent uncontrolled spread of the virus and the collapse of our health system. We had to take action and communicate quickly to ensure that – especially in the businesses and companies. It is clear that there is a need for cohesion from all in the case of a global pandemic that is burdening almost every economy around the world. This has also been demonstrated by the numerous unanimous decisions in Parliament. In order to cope with the economic impact, the Federal Government has committed a package of 38 billion euros, of which a total of 15 billion euros for the Coronahilfe Fund for particularly affected sectors of the economy. 12 billion euros have now been made available to finance the short-term work model. Together with the funds from the hardening fund, the guarantee takeovers, the fixed-cost grant, the aid for research, media, art and culture, a strong and effective package has been attached. We are fully aware that we must continue to work hard to cope with this crisis, but I can assure you: We do our best every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e17652	Mr Wurm has spoken about an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e17677	In his speech Mr. Bundeskanzler Kurz claimed that Austria in Europe is the only country with a net replacement rate of 90 percent in short work. That's wrong, as are some other statements. I'm actually correcting: Switzerland also has over 90 percent replacement rates, Ireland has up to 100 percent net replacement rates, Denmark, Sweden, Norway and some other countries have a replacement rate of up to 100 percent of gross wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e17704	Mr Stäger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e17728	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has claimed that the Deputy Chairman of the club, Leichtfried, has made an accusation to him. That's wrong. I'm actually correcting: Vice-Chairman Leichtfried has made a urgent request. That's something else. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haubner: Painful!]] The Federal Chancellor has also claimed that social democracy has taken its course. I'm actually correcting: Together with the entire opposition, the SPÖ did not take part in and voted against the provisions of the Covid Act, which dealt with the Epidemic Act. It would be nice if we had a federal chancellor who would stick to the truth.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e17769	Mr Loacker also has an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e17793	The Federal Chancellor said that the government would have bought protective materials in good time to provide health care for the workers. I'm actually correcting: Caregivers went to Spar and Billa in the beginning and got their mouth-nose protection mask there because they didn't get any from the employer in the hospital.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e17826	Is there anyone else reporting an actual correction that we would have overlooked? [[Abg. Belakovich: We still have some! But I can insert this into my speech!]] - Nobody else. [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Mr Matznetter will then be speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e17863	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear Seers! You're lucky there's so much restraint here. If we were to correct everything that was said here, it would be necessary until evening. But we want to deal with the subject. The Federal Chancellor once showed what was inside him. This is interesting for the future professional development of Mr Kurz. Perhaps you can hire from the Christian preachers in the city hall, you talk like a young Kaplan. You just need to see one thing: Self - consecration is not enough. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We need to look at the facts, some of them have already been told you. Now we come to your answer – you have not answered the questions, for example, the question of whether the same rules regarding quarantine apply to you in small border traffic as in Carinthia or Styria. [[Call the SPÖ:Genau!]] After that, did you keep the 14 days quarantine? I didn't hear a reply to that. - No! The ancient Roman saying is: Quod licet Iovi, non licet bovi. Only: Our Austrians are not oxes – I am telling you, Federal Chancellor – and they deserve to be treated equally and not for a few something better. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] I'm telling you, too, who to whom You can take an example: Mr. Alexander Van der Bellen, President of the Federal Republic of Germany, who was able to apologize. I didn't hear that from you after the events in the Kleinwalsertal. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] The mayor of Vienna has not ordered any flag in the Annagasse either. All these are examples of how you don't do it, and no reason to stand here and say: Which country do you want to exchange with? - I'd like to tell you. Let's stay with the dead: 641 Coronatote. Tell the families concerned: Which country would you have exchanged with? Maybe with Singapore with only 21 dead, maybe with Taiwan with only ten dead? They made containment from the end of December. Or with Korea, who previously had the second highest number of infection and managed to control it? – I don’t think any of it – seriously – to sit down and say how great we are. Let's talk about the problems we have! [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] No, no, no, Mrs. Colleague! They'll tell us: Tell us the names of those who have problems! – Read the “Profile”, the current issue of 24. May! There is written about Jutta Pregenzer from the Pregenzer Fashion Store, very nearby, and said how much she got: 81,75 euros! A shame is such amounts! [[New call of the abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] Let us talk about these problems, let us talk about why that is too little! You, Mr Bundeskanzler, ask: Which country do you want to exchange with? – Why did you stay in Vorarlberg with the flag poles in the Kleinwalsertal? If you had gone a bit further, you would have asked those entrepreneurs who have a business across the border in Switzerland! They could have been shown by those: In 24 hours the money in the account! – We would have wanted to exchange with them. To the short work you have praised and your statements on how much the forklift driver has got: He got the money from his employer. However, this has not seen any schilling and no euro, because only 71 million of the 12 billion euros have been paid. That's how it looks! To your “cost what it wants”: Yeah, he said that. But he didn't say who. There are thousands of people who, with their economic existence, pay the price for it, because it costs what it wants, not the generality that was payable. The actual correction has voted. We have submitted the request, namely in connection with § 4 para. 2 COVID-19 Act of Action – on 14. March, Mr Klubobmann – that all businesses with up to 25 employees receive full compensation for the earnings. What did you do to them? – You made them a bit bitter! They even mocked them in their name! Those who make a request because their operation has been closed to protect the general public will not be replaced by revenue, no, they are allowed to do so and will become a hardship in the fund. How can people who are doing something and part of our economy be degraded to bitters and alms receivers?- Oh, my God! This is a case of sin, we will not let you go through it! [[In the case of the SPÖ, the members of the FPÖ and the Agg. Fireplaces.]] Make this again, give it They're the compensation! The establishments were blocked to protect the general public, not in the interests of entrepreneurs, but in the interests of the general public. Rules on earnings have been in force for 100 years. For 70 years, § 32 of the Epidemic Law has been applicable. 70 years of Austrian law: full compensation in case of earnings, full compensation, legal claim! – You have taken it away or tried to take it away. I have put a sample application into the network and I can contact those dealers who have been allowed to lock up after Easter since Tuesday: Today the six-week period expires. Let me ask you a question. Maybe she made it sloppy, too, the government, and then you get your full sales. – I would very, very, very much wish these entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e17946	Mr Klubobmann's speech is August Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e17970	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! - But that's not my time. [[In view of the continuing appeal of the SPÖ to President Sobotka:]] All right, I didn't think it was going to happen once! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Federal Chancellor! After Mr Matznetter's death payments have been paid, I would like to tell you once again: Austria has come through this crisis better than many other countries, including many of our neighbouring countries. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking here about a pandemic, a global health crisis that is now leading to a global economic crisis. At the beginning, however, was the health crisis. This is about the preservation of human life in our Republic, and Austria has acted quickly, consistently and correctly, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] That you are annoyed by this is somehow incredible, I would like to express that once. It is incredible that it can annoy someone that we have in this health crisis, this pandemic God is thanks to low death rates. Then you stand here as an opposition representative and say: No, no, that's not true anyway, that's all wrong, it doesn't handle these numbers! – This is incredible, Mr Matznetter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] It is really incredible to take such a show on the back of the people here; I would like to give it to you once. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Matznetter: Your show is...!]] – Yes, yes, then read the paper at least! Don’t just leave in the “profile” but read a daily newspaper! Today stands “Lob für Österreich’s corona fight”. ‘From the expert side there is again praise for the measures taken so far in Austria.’ Armin Fidler is the said expert. According to him, “the Alpine Republic in the Corona crisis has achieved something that is almost unique in the international comparison.” Fidler referred in particular to the Covid-19 death rate, which is one of the lowest in the world. “With 71 deaths per million inhabitants, we’re 30 percent better off than Germany,” Fidler predicted. Mr Matznetter, every dead person through Corona is too much; but we have done it well and correctly, and it is up to you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] That we are now returning to Austria, that we are introducing this comeback of Austria, is only possible because we have low levels of infection. I have said many times in the last few weeks at this speaker's desk: Only when we have low levels of infection can it be possible that in two-week steps, in 14-day steps, we will drive Austria up again! And that's what we do. We started with the shops, with schools, with the innhouses, the next weekend tourism companies will also be closed up again, and also the borders to many of our neighbouring countries, especially the Federal Republic of Germany, will be on 15. Open June. We are an export and tourism country, therefore that is necessary, but it is possible only because we have low levels of infection. Sometimes I have the impression that you're completely forgotten. Yes, we have challenges to face, the biggest since the beginning of the Second Republic – and we do not speak small ones either – and yes, it is true that we cannot complete all the requests at once – we as Members, but also the AMS, the Economic Chamber, the individual authorities, the financial offices. One thing, Mr Matznetter, I do, however: I say to all the employees, no matter where they work, who work almost around the clock to get these applications processed, thank you. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] It is a 38 billion euro aid package, which, when compared to the order of magnitude, is looking for the same, also in the other countries. Yes, we strive to bring the funds to those involved as soon as possible – the entrepreneurs, the workers. However, I would like to draw some points out. Let us take a look at the subject of short-time work: I don't understand why this model is now being criticized. It is based on a social partners agreement. I think red trade unionists have worked very well with our representatives of the Chamber of Commerce. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That's a good model. 1.1 million people have not lost the job, but they are still employed in their businesses. One more thing, Mr Matznetter: That must be the heart element of social democracy! In this difficult time, one would have to be happy to meet these people in the businesses! A truck driver, who had around EUR 1 600 net, now comes in short work at least EUR 1 350, no matter how much work is done there at the end of the operation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] That's help coming, ladies and gentlemen. This gains the purchasing power of the people, and this is of enormous importance for our economic cycle. Over a million people are in short work and not in unemployment! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] The accounts in this area are on high-speed tours, and I do not understand what you can criticise. It's a good model. The unemployment rate is currently going down – may it remain this way, ladies and gentlemen: minus 9 000 unemployed in recent weeks. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] It is important, and I would also like to stress that - - can you listen, Mr Matznetter? [[Abg. Matznetter: No, but that is not...!]] This is apparently not possible. [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] It is important that we bring people back to work, that they can get back into their jobs, because work means income, income means prosperity, and work is the best means against poverty. It is therefore important that we bring people back to work. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We also ensure liquidity. 250 000 applications for tax relief, EUR 6 billion. Guarantee for loans – only four countries in Europe do this up to 100 percent –: 5 billion euros, 6 500 applications approved; in total there were 7 000 applications, in Germany there were only 8 000 applications. The disbursement of the fixed-cost grant has now been preferred. A hairdressing business with a turnover of 1 million euros and a sales decline of 100 percent – locked by the beginning of May, we know –: 11 000 euros grant for three months, 5 500 euros paid directly after application. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] This is help that we give as soon as possible that companies need, so I do not think it appropriate for us to do anything bad. Let us stay together and give as quick support to companies and workers as we can give them at this difficult time! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In these minutes we have brought in the community package: EUR 1 billion for investments at local level. This is intended to ensure the labour force, the construction industry and also the regional farms. Club package: 700 million euros – also contributed; Wirtepackage: 500 million euros – also introduced; public transport: EUR 300 million; Ecological measures: 200 million euros. We are aware that we also need to take further measures when it comes to the reduction of small and medium-sized incomes and more incentives for investment, but these are packages that are targeted at the arms of each group and which will also come to the attention of the people concerned, ladies and gentlemen – and we are bringing these packages to implementation in the fastest way, by means of initiative proposals. The comeback of Austria, ladies and gentlemen, will succeed if we hold together. If the Austrians stand together in the current situation as they did at the beginning of this crisis, then I am really convinced that we can also master this second phase together as well as possible. Now is the order of the hour to carry out easings wherever they are possible: fewer rules, more self-responsibility and home mind! If we continue to face this crisis together, Austria will better get out of this health and also from this economic crisis than many other countries in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, you are all invited to cooperate here because we work for the people in this country, and we want the infection numbers to remain low and we can introduce the comeback of Austria together.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e18120	Mr Schnedlitz is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e18142	Mr President. Mr. Chancellor! High house! Mr Chancellor, if you ask the question of who of the Austrians would like to be in another country now, then the answer is logical: almost nobody. All you have to do is say that this is not your policy. It is because we live in a great country, in a great country that our parents, our grandparents, built our great grandparents – and not you from the year 1986 – in a country with a great population. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] I've already said that those who have built it have locked you away now. You have to say that. They do not protect our parents and grandparents and great - grandparents, but they block them away. This is your policy to deal with the crisis. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] However, I may ask you a counter-question: When have you decided not to help the population, but to misuse the crisis to live politics for self - purpose, policy on the “harvest of fruits”, as we all now know? When was this time? When was the time, and when did you decide to live instead of crisis management, to rely on crisis PR alone, as you have proved well with your speech now? In fact, the population would have used something else. It would have needed order and clarity instead of chaos, protection and help, for example through the protective equipment that you refused – you forgot to say in your request response – protective equipment that is not sufficiently available in the system-related sectors to date, for example. Every Austrian shakes his head when he sees what's going on at the post office. Well, why is it that way? – Because They do not provide sufficient protection there. Every Austrian is annoyed that you are going the way I mentioned earlier that you are blocking our older generation away instead of providing protection equipment so that visits can be made under decent circumstances. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But you have not only failed to protect, you also fail every day in the help. “It costs what it wants” – this saying knows every Austrian and every Austrian. We have already heard it from colleagues Matznetter: When did you decide that not to help you, but that this bill à la “cost it, what it wants” must pay the people that it must pay the entrepreneurs that they have to help themselves? Helping To All Overruss Not only do you torpedo this self-help also with your measures and your regulations and the chaos of driving up. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker.]] I'm not surprised, ladies and gentlemen, that you still have so much to do with the masquerade's duty. They probably do so so that the population does not have to see the embarrassing faces that are now under the masks. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you do not want to help, then finally stop torpedoing this self-help with your measures and regulations, which also make the people and the economy with full hardness, measures and regulations, on the basis of which you proceed with punishment, with full hardness against the population, regulations – and that is what the barrel is about – which seem to not apply to you yourself! Some 40 000 penalties were imposed, including against 14-year-old children of 360 euros, although only a maximum of 300 euros would be possible, for children, although this is not planned, penalties against citizens who walk. Even warnings were given to the population, as we all know. But what are you doing yourself? – This can easily be attached to your appearance in the Kleinwalsertal and also to the local visit of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany far beyond the barricade. No one in this country understands that anymore. It is absolutely unworthy of democracy if one sets different standards for the population than for black and green politicians, than for the Chancellor and the Federal President. I'm telling you in all clear terms: Stop treating the population as subjects of second class, while you do not use the measures and your own regulations for yourself as a scale! This is not acceptable in democracy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you have even a single spark of resistance, then there is a way out by bringing in an honest self-advertisement, a self-advertisement to the incidents in the Kleinwalsertal. The same applies, moreover, to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. In the mouth of the people one would say: down from the high Ross! Then you may also understand how the population is going under your regulations and how the 40 000 people you have punished on the basis of your regulations. If this step is taken, then you will be back where politics belongs, at the same time as the people who are suffering from your actions and your regulations. Then, Mr Chancellor, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the second step is: Then admit that your policy of “harvesting the fruits” is the wrong way. Agree with panic and symbol politics and hit the unnecessary regulations you do not follow yourself! As a third step, ladies and gentlemen, you will then issue a general amnesty for all those who have been punished. Accordingly, I can also make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] If you have also remedied this mistake, then you should do what it would have needed since March: Say goodbye to the policy of “harvesting the fruits” and provide protection and help! Make sure you take protective measures against a second wave! Let us fight the virus together, especially with quality protection equipment, with sufficient testing! Finally, let us make sure that we have a real unbureaucratic aid to clean up the shreds that you have set up! I'll give you the hand to this shoulder closure. This is an shoulder closure that really helps the Austrian population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[16:08]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e18339	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e18363	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am always hard to do when someone from the FPÖ comes to the speaker's desk here because I can't understand what the FPÖ actually wants. It's something else every day. Once there is actually no corona at all and Corona is just a flu; now it is again about protecting against it. Finally, please decide! We don't know each other anymore. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] We are now debating a vital question of social democracy. At the last plenary session, Mr Rendi-Wagner actually took steps to claim that this government had decided against humanity by fighting the Corona crisis. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rendi-Wagner.]] – You said that, Mrs Rendi-Wagner! [[Abg. Belakovich: That's right!]] [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: No, I didn't say!]] This urgent request sets out all possible and impossible arguments for the failure to deal with this health crisis. Mr Leichtfried is here at the speaker's desk and suddenly criticizes measures taken by social democracy. From the outset, Mrs. Klubobfrau Rendi-Wagner, you have made very valuable contributions to dealing with this crisis, with very high professional competence and with a sense of responsibility for the Austrian population appropriate to the situation. [[Interlocutory calls by Mr Leichtfried and Mr Rendi-Wagner]] [[Abg. Lightenness: Mr Stöger would make a real correction again!]] In these weeks, there has been little dissent between the measures the government has taken and what social democracy has called for, and I am also grateful for that, especially for your professional input as a doctor. That was a very good cooperation, and we have also implemented many of the points you have brought in together. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] The less I understand why, after all this is loosening, one has clearly forgotten one's own statements, one's own demands. I understand, of course, now we are in the phase of relaxation, the first phase of dealing with this crisis is hopefully over successfully and we are entering the next phase that comes to us. [[Abg. Belakovich: Ah, now is the next phase!]] Of course, it is the opposition's job to criticize, to practice criticism, to put your finger where it hurts, but I have no understanding of this absolute turning of direction, if, for example, today it is said that the government would have completely failed. [[Call the SPÖ: Well,...!]] In my view, this criticism is not correct. For example, the request states that the government would completely fail to deal with the social crisis. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] We have put in place measures in this coalition to catch up with those who have become unemployed, who have already been unemployed or who have become unemployed by Corona. We have jointly decided on a short-term work model which the social partners have negotiated. It is a good Austrian tradition that workers and employers sit at a table together and work on finding a solution that is well suited for all. This is one of the strengths of Austria, which also shows Austrian history, and social democracy has also made an immense contribution to this. The fact that one comes here now and claims that everything would be stupid, so that would not have been good enough, I find it quite amazing, but it is also your mandaters, who have cooperated there and have also decided to do so. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Calls and calls between representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] This also applies to the extension of the model, as announced in the last few days; further improvements have been made to ensure that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that it will be met. Together with Social Democracy, we have decided that people who are unemployed and who are threatened with slipping into lower emergency aid, who can continue to receive higher unemployment benefits, linked to income and occupational protection. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lag]] That is what we have decided together. We have set up a fund of a total of 60 million euros to combat child poverty in those families that are now particularly affected by Corona or have previously been affected by unemployment, the Family Hard Fund – we have also done so together. [[Interlocutory call for Members Heinisch-Hesek]] We have made sure that rents that cannot now be paid can be delayed, that they can be charged at the earliest after the end of this year and that declarations can only be made from 2022 onwards. All these are measures that we have taken to ensure as best as possible the social situation of the Austrians and the people who live here. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] The fact that, as we are now saying, it would not be socially acceptable and we would have failed to do so socially is certainly not correct. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] All these measures have been welcomed by the union, by the Chamber of Workers. I understand that it hurts to do things in a turquoise-green coalition that one would have wished for in a social democratic potential, but that is our government programme, our approach to this government. As a result, I would expect a little more seriosity. Yes, of course there are them, the individual examples you list here. We have also improved the aid funds at all possible places and have to improve them further – this is in the nature of the fact that not everything goes completely from the beginning. We are totally committed to making improvements when they are necessary. I would also like to say one thing: Mr Matznetter – he is now, I believe, not in the hall, but we all know him – you are never about a hard word to put a sharp word and also about a good price of humor in the parliamentary debate. However, the fact that Mr Matzenetter is here today and is trying to instrumentalize the death of people is not worthy of a social democratic party. [[Abg. Lighten: Matz nicer!]] I'm used to that by the liberals, but certainly not by the Social Democracy. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Mr Heinisch-Hosek and Mr Kuntzl.]] We have implemented everything possible in this government to deal with the crisis, in whole, quite a lot of points together with you, and I also hope that reason will regain that the common fight to deal with this crisis – for it is far from over! – is in the foreground and that we can pull at a strand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e18559	Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e18581	Mr President. Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Other members of the government! High house! Yes, “instrument of the death of people,” said Cubob woman Maurer, and there is one who can do this particularly well, because he has told us that everyone will know someone who has died in Corona. [[Abg. Belakovich: (on Federal Chancellor Kurz, who was just with Federal Minister Edtstadler and Abg. Wöginger speaks, wise) He's busy right now!]] [[It was in favour of NEOS and SPÖ and FPÖ representatives.]] With fear, politics has been made, and this must be blamed on this government. First you threatened with 100,000 dead – 100,000! – and now Klubobmann Wöginger wakes up with the body cloth: Yes, there could be a lot more dead!, and you also have to threaten with the second wave, because it will all be very bad, and only when everything gets very bad can you of course order all possible restrictions. – This is how it works and the death of people is instrumentalized, as club chief Maurer said. The SPÖ pointed out something important in its urgent request, namely the chaos of opening up and taking off. No one knows about the many regulations that exist at all corners and ends, and they also change weekly. For example, the guest in the restaurant goes to the toilet without a mask, but the students in the school have to go to the toilet with a mask. The confusion in the rules in force goes up to the head of state, and then the President of the Federal Republic sits still outside at half past night and the Chancellor forgets that he does not actually live in a WG with Captain Wallner and State Secretary Brunner and therefore is not supposed to be so close to them. If the leaders of the Republic no longer recognize themselves, then we cannot ask the citizens to do so! [[It was in favour of NEOS and SPÖ and FPÖ representatives.]] What is not yet available in this great concert of wonderfully orchestrated press conferences is a concept of how we get back into a normal world and into a normal life, because we are unable to endure what is happening by 2021 or 2022 if, as is claimed, we are absolutely threatened with a second wave. Division of school classes in Group A and Group B, which does not last until 2021 and 2022. What do you do if a student is tested positively for Corona? Do you always close the whole school for 14 days? Do parents have to expect the kindergarten or school to be closed at any time? Does an entrepreneur have to expect its construction site to be closed at any time because an employee on the construction site has been tested positively? If a Coronafall occurs in a hotel in the summer, do you close the whole hotel for 14 days? They have no recipe and no solution as we come out with a practical, close-to-life solution. What could such a one look like? – If someone is tested, it has to be done quickly. The result must be fixed quickly, not in four to five days. Those who are tested positively must be in quarantine and also those who live in the common household with these people. The contact persons must be traced quickly, and they must be tested even if they do not show symptoms – we all know that not every symptoms show – but that is not the case with us. And then you have to allow the other one to continue working: keep the school open, keep the construction site in operation, keep the hotel open. This logic, however, is lacking in this impenetrable confusion of regulations that you publish weekly. The short work: So we really have the best from there to Texas when you listen! In Switzerland, 1.9 million people are in short work, and in Switzerland, short-time work aid is charged, so that the company has money on the account in 48 hours at the latest and does not have to wait for weeks and months. That's the difference. Entrepreneurs would prefer to stay in Switzerland, where they have credit guarantees immediately and where short-term work aid flows immediately and not at some point when the company has long gone out of the air. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] 12 billion euros for short work! We have approved EUR 12 billion of short-term work aid, around 10 billion has already been sought – but only 0.44 billion of this thickly announced 12 billion have been transferred. It doesn't work! Now the short work is being reformed. That's great! There will now be four different ways of calculating short work. Each software store now has to program four solutions, each tax advisor has to make up with each customer who takes the four variants. It has not become easier, it is becoming increasingly complicated. Then there's a veritable test chaos, isn't there? Have 15,000 tests per day You promised, Mr Bundeskanzler, at the moment we are still at 5 000 to 6 000. On no day were these 15,000 that you promised, and then go here and promise 65 000 tests for tourism. Where are they supposed to come from when the Red Cross makes tests? – The Red Cross has not brought together for Minister Fässmann even 2,500 tests for the Sora study done there. 2 500! And then we come to the antibody tests. The Minister of Health has bought a million antibody tests in China, which are not necessary, as the experts are now finding out. Meanwhile, the General Insurance Institute has developed an antibody test, but the Minister of Health does not use it. The chaos you have in your government: Fäsmann does something with tests, you do something, Köstinger reports, Anschober does something – loud players in the field, but somehow no one has the ball control. Perhaps you should see that you are working in the government, far beyond the press conferences.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e18645	Mr Einwallner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e18667	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Between the announcements of this federal government and reality, the worlds, ladies and gentlemen. Each third Austrian is either affected by short-time work or by unemployment. Mr Bundeskanzler, you seem to lack the feeling that you are looking at someone who is in short work or in unemployment, for: Why Reluctant You'd better increase unemployment? That can't have any other reason. You don't feel that way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Obviously, you can't see how a single or medium-sized enterprise or a small or medium-sized enterprise is going to be, an entrepreneur who, with a lot of risk, dared to become self-employed with much commitment, and who may now face the ruins of his existence to fear his existence, because the entrepreneurs still get far too little. I also quote an entrepreneur who writes: I got exactly 81,75 euros. It's a farce. That's not even alms. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Klubobmann Wöginger, talk less, pay more out! That would be the principle. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor, develop feeling It's only you when it comes to staging. The population you have been demanding in recent weeks, quite a lot. Only when the chancellor goes on a stage trip is suddenly everything completely different. This is where flags in Mittelberg are demanded in advance. When the chancellor travels on stage, there are suddenly no more border closures. The patchwork parents who have waited for a regulation for weeks to be able to cross the border if they want to see their children again feel quite different. Mr. Federal Chancellor, keep up! Do you feel the injustice? Keeping up is in demand. [[I would like to congratulate Mr Stefan and Mr Brandstätter on the SPÖ.]] If the chancellor travels on stage, he can go shoulder to shoulder with the head of state Wallner in Vorarlberg, since the distance does not matter, there is no need for a mouth-nose protection, but if at the same time two school friends meet in Vorarlberg on a park bench, then they will receive several hundred euros of punishment. Hold on, Federal Chancellor! Do you feel the injustice? [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Fireplaces.]] When the chancellor travels on stage, it doesn't matter how many people gather so that the chancellor can get good photos and take a few selfies. Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time this Federal Government has limited the number of mourning guests to funerals, so that people cannot even say goodbye to their loved ones in dignity. Mr. Federal Chancellor, keep up! Hold on! Do you feel the injustice? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Their reaction to the incidents in the Kleinwalsertal was also significant, for it is always the same: They're putting off the blame. They blame the population and the journalists. That you have not even taken the opportunity to apologise today, that you do not have the size to admit this mistake, which testifies on the one hand to the weakness of character, and on the other hand, I would like to say, is an insolence towards people outside. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But essentially, you have managed to quadruple the representation budget in your house so that the staging can continue. Unfortunately, this does not help people. The task of politics is to help people, Federal Chancellor. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude with the motion for a resolution tabled by our Judge, Mr Selma Yildirim, concerning 'an amnesty law relating to the partly questionable and. disproportionate implementation of COVID-19 legislation’. This motion for a resolution calls for a stop to the persecution of persons in cases where the investigations are still ongoing, and for an amnesty to be made in respect of those penalties which have already been pronounced. Thank you very much. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[16:26]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e18889	The application is properly submitted and sufficiently supported. He has also been distributed so that we can read for a reading - - – – Please? [[Abg. Lightenness: That was once a speech!]] [[Abg. Lightness: Was a good speech!]] – May I speak out, honourable Member? [[Abg. Lightness: Of course!]] Thank you. – He is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Haubner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e18947	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, Corona has changed the world, Europe and Austria. We all know that Corona is not gone, but we also know that many experts and many international media prove that we have done a lot, very right, ladies and gentlemen – first in the health field and now in the gradual uphilling of the economy. Let us, together, be a little glad that we have done so well together, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am now and for myself rather calm and relaxed, but what we are experiencing here today from the SPÖ is already a spectacle. The SPÖ, Mr. Leichtfried, Mrs. Rendi-Wagner play out at once as the great economic understandrs and the great economic supporters – the SPÖ, who has always threatened us with higher corporate taxes, who has always called for higher business charges that have led us away from the economy, the SPÖ, who in their ranks has a workers' chamber president, who makes videos against entrepreneurs and dissuades them. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you're always busy with yourself! They have no time to take care of us in front of loud internal and external disputes. [[Call the SPÖ:Yes, yes!]] I tell you, you are ready for the lack of credibility medal in gold, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You always say we don't have a plan here. – This federal government has a plan, a very clear plan. [[Abg. Greiner: Very secret!]] The first stage was the fight against the pandemic, its ceasing. In this respect, we have been a model for many other countries. The second stage was to secure jobs, secure employment and accompany entrepreneurs through the crisis. That's what we're doing now. And the third stage will be an economic and impulse programme. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We have said it more often: There is no manual for this crisis, so we always see that we are improving support. We are committed to supporting entrepreneurs and ensuring jobs in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to give examples, as we always only hear examples of how it does not work: We know a brewery in Styria with 200 employees who have applied for short work. That's now billed, and after a few days she had her due money on her account. – Thanks to the AMS for this good work. The same applies to bridge financing at the AMS. Again, it has worked, and they have now been able to increase their capacities from 20 to 70 percent. 200 employees continue to have their jobs, ladies and gentlemen. That's an example. A second example is a commercial company in Salzburg with 30 employees: Short work requested, approved, invoiced. Exactly the same thing: 100 percent warranty requested at the AWS – received in 48 hours, and the money is now in the account. The operation is almost back in full operation. Third example, a watchmaker with five employees: Short work requested, billing made itself – she said she needed one quarter of hours for it – and the money was in the account after four days. There are also many positive examples, ladies and gentlemen, let us also highlight them! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] When we talk about short work today, Mr Worm – 100 percent in Ireland, yes, up to 800 euros! – then you have to say the truth quite clearly and you must not simply call it a percentage, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Worm: And Denmark?]] [[Abg. Matznetter: It would be nice... that would get 800 euros! 800 euros, the...!]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] Mr Matznetter, if you, as Vice-President of the Chamber of Commerce, stand out here and always criticize all these measures, I would recommend that you: Look for another job, because the Chamber of Commerce is doing excellent work. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Matznetter.]] The employees are working day and night for their members and work out the applications. [[Abg. Matznetter: This is the task of the Chamber of Commerce!]] On legal conformity, Mr Leichtfried: With all due respect for the hard situation in which the entrepreneurs are, really, but there is a minimum degree of legal conformity to be fulfilled, and we are doing everything and really working to ensure that we accompany the entrepreneurs through this crisis, and we will continue to do so, ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to make a big request to you, which is that we deal with this crisis together, because in Austria we have a good tradition of dealing with crises together, which we have done more often. Our commitment is particularly true of companies and jobs in Austria, which is why I would like to conclude by saying: Buy in your home country! Have a vacation in Austria! The Austrian entrepreneurs are looking forward to seeing you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e19095	Mrs Belakovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e19116	Mr Haubner, you're out there a lot, you talk to many, you know better. You know that what you've been telling here is not true. You know it very well, as opposed to Mr Bundeskanzler. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I take the Chancellor from the Federal Chancellor that he has no idea what's really happening outside, because he's only in his glass bunker, but you're on the way with the people. They are in contact with so many entrepreneurs in the Chamber of Commerce. You really know, so stop making yourself here and tell something! In fact, the Chamber of Commerce is currently the Sargnagel for entrepreneurs: It is checked that forms are required, it does not fit the hundredth time. The figures speak for themselves when only 191 million euros have been paid out from the hardness fund. You can't deny this number! This shows once again that the aid does not flow and that it does not arrive, Mr Haubner! So stop telling people something here! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, I have listened very closely to you – you do not usually do so, you are always busy with the mobile phone – and you have come here and have said towards colleague Leichtfried: Yes, Mr Leichtfried, you would be the first to rise up again when false or unwarranted money arrives at companies. Do you know what you said, Mr. Bundeskanzler? – As the Federal Chancellor and Party Chairperson of a alleged economic party, you have suspected the entrepreneurs of being a general suspect, as if every entrepreneur who makes a request were automatically trying to get a fraud. [[Call the SPÖ:Responsible!]] You said this today, and I strongly reject it, Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] At a time when this federal government has taken the air to breathe the entrepreneurs, at a time when the epidemic law has been removed with bad tricks, to bring here at such a time and to suspect entrepreneurs under general suspicion, that ridicules every criticism, Mr. Federal Chancellor! You should finally get off your high horse! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Put your cell phone away once! This is an unhappiness which you have shown here, a disregard for this House and this Parliament. This also shows your posture that you would like to be outside again anyway, because you don't tang all of this and not interested! That's exactly how you lived it, Mr. Federal Chancellor, in the Kleinwalsertal. That's the way you went, you've been delighted, you haven't met a safety gap – and there's no blame for the population. They personally went shoulder to shoulder with ÖVP head of state Wallner. They were personal! That wasn't an audience who was happy to have a high visit from Vienna – no, Mr. Federal Chancellor, that was you! That's already started when you got out of the car: Without mouth-nose protection, you've been inside. Today morning were You're not there, but I've already asked the question today: Do you live with your chauffeur in the same household or do you not live with him in the same household? because if not, you are obliged to wear a mouth-nose protection. But you didn't pick it up in the car. This can be seen very closely on the video recordings of the “Vorarlberger Nachrichten”. So you have not observed here several laws that you serve the Austrians every day with fear-making in your felt 100,000 press conferences. All these measures obviously do not apply to you and to you. If I tell you the same thing, I'll be with your best friend Martin Ho. Mr Martin Ho can obviously celebrate in his locality without being interested. There are celebrations. I know you were not present, perhaps other members of the government who could provide further information. And that happens for a time again! Obviously, Mr. The same thing as the same, because what is true of the common people, what is true of the host around the corner, is not true of a very special giant. So, and now I'm still coming to the President of the Federal Republic. Mr Bundeskanzler, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has done something you cannot, he said: That was a mistake, and I apologize. – I would like to hear from you: It was a mistake, it was a mistake for all the measures, because we do not need them. I don't stick to it myself, I don't hold back from the distance, nor do I stick to wearing the mouth-nose protection. Not only did you not carry these in the Kleinwalsertal, Mr Bundeskanzler, in many, many committees ÖVP members have rarely had mouth-nose protection above. It is about finally freeing the population from it. It is a crazy burden to keep this strange thing permanently above the mouth. You sweat underneath, many have got allergies, many have got rashes. No one should be banned, but there should be no more compulsion, and for this very reason I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] What happened in Austria was that there were no masks in nursing homes, because there was simply nothing like that, because you acted too late, ordered too late, and that is also the reason why there are nursing homes in which there are very, very many infected people in the meantime, because it brought in the nursing staff. They had the choice of leaving patients uncared or working without protective clothing. You also have this responsibility to take over – and now you finally stop playing with your stupid phone! That's an rudeness, I'm telling my children all day: You don't do that! This cell phone mania is a sick addict, Mr. Federal Chancellor! Think about it once! [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[16:39]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e19271	The application is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next word is that of Mr Schalmeiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e19295	Mr President. Dear Chancellor! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! Yes, whenever my colleague, Mrs Belakovich, was in front of me, I can say: Let's get down again, let's calm down again, Calm down! That is almost always the appropriate introduction. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the first place, I would like to say something to Mr Leichtfried, Mr Leichfried, that we are happy to give each other examples of what has gone well and what has gone badly. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] I can also give you a good example. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross]] My former employer with over 350 trade employees in all During the measures, Austria did not have to hire any staff, no staff. On the contrary: They will not continue to be released, as I have been assured. So there are also positive examples; we can align this to each other. Keeping 350 employees is not so bad. I think that's a sign that it worked quite well. Nevertheless, we come to the real issue or to the one to which I would like to speak: What have we done in recent weeks? We have taken care of the pandemic fight, we have taken rapid action, we have seen that we protect people. We wanted to come through this crisis in solidarity together in order to protect our health care as well. We still have pictures from Bergamo, France, Spain, the current pictures from the UK, the USA and Brazil. Let's talk about Sweden, about the much praised Sweden: Sweden is about the same size as Austria in terms of the number of inhabitants, but it has recorded five times the number of deaths. That's what we can't deny. So we tried to protect our system as well during this time. ==References== We are taking appropriate opening steps on April. This is about acting in accordance with the terms of the experts of the Taskforces so that we can get out step by step. We get a test strategy with the help of a screening register that we have decided in the meantime. These are hard facts. I'm not saying everything went perfectly, I'm not saying everything went well either. There's been mistakes, too. Mr. Anschober – usually he's always sitting there, now he's not here – did not just come here once and he said: Yes, there have been mistakes, we have had something to learn, we have recorded criticism that has come from the opposition! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross.]] This was done, and you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, could also mention it positively. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lightenness: But today it's more about...!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kollross and Mr Vogl.]] We have heard the positive example of our Federal President very often today – I am still very glad that he is called Van der Bellen – who has apologised. The same thing has also been done by Mr Anschober, so if we are already talking about positive examples, we might mention this here more often. No question, we have problems too, we don't need to talk about it at all. [[Call at SPÖ:We have a problem with the Federal Chancellor!]] The small part of health care in Austria is not always positive. I think we all know where this small part comes from. This small part makes a lot more difficult for us. An example already mentioned by Mr Schnedlitz of the FPÖ: Yeah, it's true, we have a problem in the nursing homes and in the old homes. I ask, however, not to address the Minister, but to the operators of the nursing homes. These are, by the way, the countries which have been informed by Minister Anschober for weeks on the easing steps. He says to them again and again: Please open the nursing homes, I can't prescribe it to you, but please loosen the restrictions! They're gonna stop and say, I don't want to be the next cluster and, and, and! – They show no reaction. Maybe we can all agree here that we use our channels together to get a relaxation, and that quickly. I am here with you, because we definitely have a subject, because we have a problem, but we can also solve it together. So, one thing I'd like to address: It has always been said that our health care system has been completely shut down and we have to somehow get it up. – Excuse me, no, the health care has not gone down in the last few weeks. There has been an acute supply, there have been acute surgery, there have been appropriate rehabilitation measures following such acute surgery and acute action. 90 percent of the established doctors had opened their ordinations and made sure that no medical emergency occurred in that country. In addition, psychotherapy and psychological assistance measures were reinforced and forced. These measures are in the final effect the best example of the fact that the health care system has not been reduced. But I'm right about you. We have corresponding topics. We will also have to talk about things that have not gone well; we will take them in, evaluate them accordingly, and we will learn from this situation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e19378	Member of the European Parliament is speaking on behalf of Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e19400	Mr President. Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Bundeskanzler, you have already rejected Question 11, "Why has the EU Commission's offer for the procurement of protective equipment been rejected by your side in January 2020?" There are seating information from a not necessarily government-critical journalist from Brussels who confirms that the Ministry of Health has refused the regulation of protective equipment because everything was under control, so to speak. That's what we want to be quite clear about, that's what it is. I'm telling Mr Haubner that there's no manual. That's quite right, of course, there's no manual for a corona crisis. But what I have to say here, And that really saddens me, is that there is actually no compassion and no entrepreneurial thinking in a government party like the ÖVP. There is relatively little going on, and I would also like to make this clear; I come to it at a moment. The Federal Chancellor once said that we will all soon know someone – from our surroundings, from our family, from our circle of acquaintances – who will die. He spoke of 100,000 dead. One thing I have to tell you: We will have hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs who go into insolvency if we don't rip around the row right now. That's the core problem. And what is it about? To your honour that we are so good: As far as the short work is concerned, I only need to look at our neighbor Switzerland. In Switzerland, the unemployment rate – in relation to Austria – has not increased significantly, and in Switzerland, 100 percent of the costs of short-time work have been taken over, and in Switzerland, there has been a scheme that has enabled business assistance very quickly and unbureaucratically. There were loans, interested at 0 percent, to repay within five years, with a hundred percent liability, and within 24 hours the money was on the account. – To this day, we are not ready. There are a large number of companies, and even if Mr Haubner says that there are some who have got it, one must not ignore it: These are loans that entrepreneurs have to repay, they're tax charges, it's a backpack that entrepreneurs have to school. You have to do these tax charges, too, and I do not think that there are a lot of farms that will have broken down this backpack by 31 December. I have played it with the Minister of Finance this morning, and I want to play it with you now: Let us imagine that you are a businessman and I am a Federal Chancellor, and I would promise you that 14 billion euros will flow, as promised by the Minister of Economic Affairs, 38 billion euros. As an entrepreneur, they wait for the money and don't get it because there's a problem with it. The problem is the arrangement, the forward and forwarding of the entrepreneurs between the bank, AWS funding station, then back and then back again, and then you say: The Cofag isn't ready yet! – This is a core problem of the whole story. The fixed-cost grant is a core problem, the operating-cost grant is a core problem because we have not dealt with it differently. If an expert like Mrs. Trenkwalder says that 40 percent of all tourism companies will fall out, then we have a problem again. Mr Bundeskanzler, I encourage you to go there with us and do what is now necessary. Either we regulate it on the Basel III criteria or we regulate it on something else, namely the criteria of the European Investment Bank on liability. We have to bring the pressure from the companies, because otherwise the bank will have to put the demands due 2021, and that is a core problem. Therefore, there are three strands of action: on the one hand, tax-technical. Continue that the 2019 marketing year will be equal to the 2020 marketing year! This is very important, even for the whole prepayments, as far as social security is concerned. – Mr Kopf is my opinion. Put through a shield for tourism companies! They will not survive with 50 percent of the nights. If you charge the Germans – and we do not predict 50 percent – it will be a maximum of 55 percent. There's no economic outcome. We need a freeze scheme for 365 days to allow businesses to freeze payments, especially in tourism. We must also: In addition, there is a need to improve the quality of the environment and to This requires a balance of appreciation, otherwise the entrepreneurs have failed with their goods and property. This is the core problem: Many farms can't lock anymore, they're vegetating there. This is a core problem, and we need a balance sheet. But we also need – and that is what Mr Treichl said today – medium-sized funding. This is what we need to do now: Risk capital provision that must be favourable to tax. We also have so much on the savings accounts of many Austrians or Austrians living in Austria, it takes medium-sized financing and a risk capital provision. But we also need – and this is social policy – immediate relief of the factor work. Only in this way, if we reduce labour costs, can we all the more get out of unemployment back into work, into employment, so that they can get a higher gain. That's very important. The third point, which is particularly dear to your heart, is debureaucratisation. Facilitate business start-ups now! Make a trade reform with us! The proposals are on the table. This is especially necessary. We will lose businesses, yes, but we must not lose 100 000 in the case of Weitem. Now it is your responsibility, and now it is also the responsibility of the Greens that you implement something that you lay the tracks for how entrepreneurship works in 2021. This is my appeal to you: Work with us! I really have to say it: We all have decided something together. The shoulder closure worked at the beginning. But the end of the shoulder only worked when it came to removing the epidemic law and deciding on the Covid-19 law. After that it was a one-way road that led to a dead end for many companies, because – and that is the point – the funds did not flow. 500 million euros have been spent on 14 billion euros. This concerns liquidity. I can tell you about my own business in Salzburg: I've seen relatively little money there. If this does not change in the tourist sector, there will be many farms that die, even because of the low equity structure, because they could not build up any reserves in the past because the cost factor labour was so high and the bureaucracy was insane. That's the point.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e19466	Mrs Holzleitner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e19498	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Federal Chancellor! Children, young people, young people, have indeed carried every measure in a masterful way, have been faced with great uncertainties and at the same time have been involved in civil society at the same time – neighborhood aid, civil service. In recent months, however, I have noticed at the countless press conferences that not one has really been concerned with the needs of children and young people, not one – except for human capital, in short, as much as schmankerl has taken along with it; Human capital, that is what the government coalition understands among the needs of children and young people. Even in the field of education – we have heard it – only a few things have been announced. The uncertainty was great – because it is currently up-to-date: even with the Matura. Now, when you ask students, they say: Yes, thanks be to God, she's taking place somehow now, but in fact we didn't know exactly how the whole thing happened. Stefanie, 25, tells the “standard”: “I am unemployed for the first time. In March, I started a traineeship in an insurance company. Shortly after the first working day, I got a call: Because of the economic situation, all would be terminated during the trial period. That was like a blow in the face.” Further: “Unemployment benefit is low, it only covers fixed costs such as car and insurance. The rent gives me my parents, in whose house I have an apartment, food I pay from savings.” Economic bottlenecks in the family due to unemployment and short-term work, uncertainty as to whether one gets a teaching post, whether one can take up a training place or whether one slides into youth unemployment, uncertainty about how to bridge the summer holidays, whether holiday camps take place – all these fears are real, and you, Mr. Federal Chancellor, do not act. That's dramatic. I really have to say that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Nor has it been remembered that every social contact of children and young people from today's point of view – in school, in training facilities, in the fire brigade youth, in the sports club, in all these clubs and organizations – had to be stopped. For example, we have put on the table a package that calls for the support of executives, safeguarding child and youth work, immediately more psychologists in Austria's schools, protecting violence for women and children, other health measures – really a first step package. I would particularly like to highlight the work of children and young people, because it was an extremely important building block, often the last anchor, the last contact outside of their own four walls, and it finally needs long-term funding for these organisations and for this work, because all children and young people have free access to social workers' support – quite simply a place where you can meet and talk openly. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] This is precisely what it is all about in the field of psychological advice and support for schools. Many young people have now experienced terrible things that they may not want to talk to teachers or also to fellow students. That is why it is essential that we have 100 psychologists more in Austria's schools from tomorrow. Why don't you understand? I really can't understand. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This package will be rejected on Friday, instead an amendment by Turquoise Green, which refers to the government programme. Actually, this is the farce, because one explores the need for urgent action – immediate action that is needed immediately, which is urgent and immediate. A discharge is immediately found for the sparkling wine industry, not for children and young people. If you have a lobby, I don't think you need to mention it. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] To conclude, the current advice from the Council on Wire: There were 240 per cent more sleep problems, 146 per cent more requests for panic attacks and depression, 54 per cent more suicidal thoughts and autoaggression like cracks, and 88 per cent more physical violence in the family. In this sense, I would like to wish you Prost if you start the budget decisions with your favorite sparkling wine. [[Abg. Schmidhofer: This is a presumption!]] Unfortunately, their measures do not help the unemployed nor the workers nor the families, children and young people in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[16:58]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e19671	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Niss is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e19696	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! High house! I understand that it is the task of the opposition to criticize, but what you are doing, dear SPÖ, is not a constructive criticism, but you are confused, as Mr Maurer has already said – not only to us, but also to the citizens. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You are confused yourself!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lightenness: You are right that the colleague Maurer is confused!]] Thanks to the strength of our government's decision, we went to the lockdown faster than others, and the result is clear: There are fewer corona infected and, above all, fewer deaths. I would also like to thank you for taking these measures, but I would like to thank you, above all, the people who have been very committed to these measures. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] We have also shown that it is possible to think about health and the economy. Through rapid and consistent measures at the beginning, we are also a leader in getting out of the lockdown quickly. As one of the first countries in Europe, that is, after 29 days, we have raised the economy again, only the Czech Republic has opened up small shops and markets in front of us. If the strategy of the Federal Government, which you criticised, is so bad, I do not understand why it is praised internationally and Europe-wide: Switzerland, the USA, Germany. I would also like to draw the comparison with Sweden. I am a big fan of self-responsibility and of the strength of innovation of Sweden, but the Sweden have six and a half times as many deaths as we do, and the way out for the economy is also more difficult there. They have a 1% greater decline in their economic performance. So I don't think they've chosen the right way. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] According to your criticism, especially of economic aid, they have come far too late. I can remind you: Within 48 hours, the first measures to stabilise the economic location were adopted, for example, the short-term work model coordinated with the social partners. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Two days after the start of the Covid-19 measures, a 38 billion euro package was decided. On 20.3. the hardness fund was decided. At the beginning of April, three new Covid-19 collectors were decided which were extremely large: tax relief for entrepreneurs and employees, those were credit guarantees, liability – we know, up to 100 percent; one among four countries in Europe; the Corona Fund – we know, grants; one of two countries in Europe; Co-financing for private investments in start-ups. Hardly any other country has put in place as fast and as comprehensive support measures as Austria. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] But let me speak again to the short work, because this is really a model that can be seen and is unique. It helps us, above all, to protect people from unemployment. Sabine Herlitschka, CEO of Infineon, called it an important tool for the economy in the “Salzburger Nachrichten” on 19.5. and also Voestalpine sees it as a model and as a very positive attempt to keep jobs, and this in an international comparison. This model has just been decided for a further three months. My thanks to the Federal Government, this was extremely important for the company's planning security. That, dear SPÖ, is the measures necessary to strengthen confidence, and this is particularly necessary in these uncertain times. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Luke Hammer.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the situation is serious. It is now about how we can create this comeback of the economy, and there are no conspiracy theories to help, but only optimism, courage and, above all, the right economic policies. It will be necessary, on the one hand, to relieve workers – and, on the other hand, thanks also for favouring tax relief – and, on the other hand, investment incentives will also be necessary. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] On the one hand, this is done by public authorities through intelligent measures. For example, I can only remind you of the school development plan; 2.4 billion euros are actually investing correctly: in education, in sustainability, in digitalisation. But, of course, it will also be necessary to trigger private corporate investment, and ideally in this field in digitization and eco-logisation, because this will help companies to make the most of their future in order to survive in international competition and secure jobs in the long term. – This, ladies and gentlemen, is an intelligent location policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The strategy is the right one, which also confirms much of the actual stakeholders. According to a current Imas survey, 84 percent are very satisfied with the crisis management of politics, and more than two thirds of entrepreneurs are satisfied with the policy measures. Ladies and gentlemen, even if you still so often claim the opposite: Austria simply comes out of this crisis better, and we owe it to the actions of the Federal Government and not to your criticism. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e19798	Next speaker: Mr Wolfgang Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e19822	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I do not want to miss out on a promise I made to a family that wrote the following to me almost a month ago, or perhaps even a little longer ago. [[The speaker puts a table on the speaker's desk, on which can be seen under the title "More Than Ever: Corona Insanity Stop Now / www.coronaWahnsinn.at" Federal Chancellor Just before a human gathering and Federal President Van der Bellen, who drinks from a glass of green liquid, slides away several times.]] [[Oje-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] – We needed a gheite pult and not the plexiglass in front. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I'm reading: Dear Mr. Zanger! We'll try to tell you what happened to us in the last few days. We lost a loved person a week ago through suicide, our dad, a partner, a grandpa, a best friend. His younger daughter, his daughter-in-law and his grandchild, a four-year-old girl, unfortunately had to watch this bad situation. For days we have been trying to get therapeutic help, but unfortunately, the measures only allow for telephone conferences. ==References====External links== May. That means four weeks without help; calling with a four - year - old girl I imagine a little difficult. An adoption by a loved one – almost impossible, we would not have had this nice lady of burial, who has set all levers in motion to fulfill this last wish. Thank you for that. No, we weren't 20 people, we weren't ten people who wanted to say goodbye, we were just six people. I could yell at rage. The second disaster revolves around our 75-year-old grandma. Grandma had an open wound at the foot, which we got under control with the regular foot care super. The wounds were almost closed. Well, no footcare during the Corona era – the result: two open wounds at the feet and pain I don't even want to imagine. Just a bottomless freak. Last but not least: My daughter's pregnant in the seventh month. Her partner worked at McDonald’s and currently has no work – clear, unemployment due to Corona. To make the most of the time, he had decided to build the children’s room, and yes, a good friend helped him to do so. After a long day of renovation, he accompanied his friend home in the evening. They were stopped by the police, had to give up their personnel. And the morale of history: not living in the common household, too little distance from security, no mouth protection, 360 euros punishment from the County Headship for each of them. A getting father without a job – a really great performance. That's our story. In times like this, I hope you reach a lot of people and some people open their eyes to what is happening in our beautiful free land. - Quote. This is a very touching story, as I mean, and, dear family, maybe you're watching and now you've seen how much Mr. Federal Chancellor is interested in your story. [[He was in favour of FPÖ, SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Federal Chancellor Kurz ends his conversation with President Sobotka and Federal Minister Edtstadler and takes place again at the government bank.]] In particular the People's Party, the fate of the simple people in this country is now completely different. The V in the word ÖVP, the Austrian People's Party, no longer stands for people, but rather it stands for the people to be impelled to sell the people. There are even more metaphors for that which I will not mention here, but the folk mouth already has its words for it. It's nice that the ÖVPlers aren't infected with Corona – we're knocking on wood to keep it that way – but for that, you've won the Dolfuss gene. [[to the speaker's desk knocking]] Getting support for this They are of those who otherwise call themselves so tolerant, but in truth live opinional dictatorship: from the Greens; and the Greens prove that the fascism of the 21st. ==References====External links== In view of these conditions, the simple citizens want to spread anger, anger and disappointment, but in fact they say: It's just all more sad! – Nothing is added to the ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e19909	The next item is Mrs Elisabeth Götze's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e19931	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear other members of the Federal Government! Dear High House! Dear spectators at home in front of your screens! I spoke this morning about the grievance of the opposition that the measures are too slow, too little, too bureaucratic for them. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: What does that mean, "Pity"? That's facts!]] One might think that Mr Leichtfried would have contributed to my speech for his urgent request, because we read exactly that in this urgent request – apologies, yes – in this urgent request. [[Abg. Bernhard: Whoever insults should also be able to read out properly!]] Too late, too little, too bureaucratic: That is the same thing as the urgent question. We have often heard in the high house: Whoever helps quickly helps twice. [[Call at the SPÖ: The Wöginger doesn't write so bad speeches!]] We know: When we decide quickly, often not all the circumstances are known. It is therefore also in order to include and correct constructive proposals for improvement. [[Call the SPÖ: It can only get better!]] - That's exactly what happens. Thank you all for the constructive criticism. This happens from time to time in the rear rows of the SPÖ, especially when you speak under four eyes, but otherwise I hear more screams. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Three specific examples of economic measures: The first is the Coronahilf Fund. It has already been said that companies from this fund receive grants of up to 75 percent of their fixed costs. Since last week they can be applied for and from next week the first grants will be paid. It is to be said that the liquid means that remain in the company that cannot be repaid are not loans. They're lost grants. For up to 12 000 euros, an affidavit of the company is sufficient. So it is not an audit or anything else to carry out. I don't think it's any more unbureaucratic than anything else. The second is the short work: As far as short-time work is concerned, I have to correct the Chancellor – it is 1.3 million people who have already taken advantage of short-time work over time, and not 1 million. [[Abg. Bernhard: It's getting better!]] Many of them work in small businesses. Yes, it is a problem for many of them when they receive the money only when the application has been submitted to the AMS because it is only clear how much money they can get. For this they can get an interim financing from the bank, and that also happens. It is now sufficient to present the AMS application in order to obtain this interim financing. Third example, the hardness fund: On Sunday evening 165,000 people have not only taken advantage of this but have already received payments. Over 190 million euros have flown. [[Call the SPÖ:... 30 billion!]] I admit, I would have wanted more money, too. More and more is better, I admit. [[Call to the SPÖ: You are in the government, you just need to do it!]] I am therefore pleased that the Minister of Finance has already announced that something will come. A bonus will come. [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] The comparisons with Germany, with Switzerland – apples are constantly compared to pears. In Austria, we have another system, a system that works well, which is perfectly safe, because we distinguish, for example, between the costs of the company and the entrepreneurship wage, and costs, as we all know, are very company-specific. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] The principle of casting canning would not work, so it makes sense for each company to be replaced by the fixed costs which it also requires. [[Call to the FPÖ:We are not going to be a foreigner, Mrs Colleague!]] Finally, a personal story: My mother tells me after every plenary that she can't listen to this and asks me: How are you? [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] I would therefore like to thank the listeners at home on the screens and those colleagues who work constructively. I'm appealing to you: Come back to a constructive dialogue and to a respectful relationship with each other! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e20069	The next item is Mrs Henrike Brandstötter's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e20093	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen. Who would have thought that a comic cat would once be the coat of arms of the Austrian Federal Government? I'm sure you all remember Garfield. His key word was: If you can't convince them, confuse them! – This seems to be the guiding principle of our government in what it calls aid measures. Without any idea of the economic reality of EPUs, it errs through a chaotic labyrinth, which it has built herself. If many now wonder why you confuse the entrepreneurs, then I can only say: The sad truth is, you don't know better, you It can't be better. This is especially true of individuals and small businesses, and this has to do with the fact that the government simply has a completely wrong view of the EPCs. For you, these small businesses seem to be just the lowest level of development in a company. They're pretending they're all just as small knittings sitting at home at the kitchen table, going after their hobby and now wanting to have money for it. But that most EPUs just want to do their thing, create themselves a job, you don't see. They also explore that EPUs are not necessarily on growth and are not prepared to hire employees. You can't imagine that many EPUs are general entrepreneurs, who in turn create jobs and award orders – and this to a lot of people. This completely false view of the EPUs is not only reflected in the most corrupt aid measures, it is also not particularly wise in economic policy. It is the EPCs that can work the longest and the hardest in times of crisis, because they can work with the lowest conditions. They are those who can adapt most quickly to new circumstances because they do not carry an organizational ballast with them. Individual entrepreneurs are also very often highly specialized experts in their field, who find new solutions even under difficult conditions. You shouldn't let that jump over the blade. So what do EPUs need so that they don't slumber in a row? – First of all: You need clarity. Entrepreneurs need clarity about when they can do what again under what conditions, and they need clarity about the conditions under which they come to liquidity. You can't talk about real support anymore, because the conditions often change over the night for weeks. This is an additional burden that no one can really need. Secondly, You need support, which is also true to this name. Entrepreneurs don't just need a pocket money. I beg you They are really intrusive to help entrepreneurs without obstacles, without tax striptease and without completely non-reality requirements. Damage is now necessary. It can also be settled later. Thirdly, EPUs need debureaucratisation and flexibility. You're more important now than ever. These include the creation of zero costs and the long-term reorganisation of commercial law – and these are only the very first steps. We need modern forms of business: We need Klein AG, we need the GmbH Zero. We should also ensure that individual companies, as well as capital companies, can form tax-privileged reserves. This will enable them to invest specifically in their own business next year, in research, in development or also in personal education and training – or also in overcoming the next crisis if they are abandoned by the government once again. EPUs – these are growth engines that can react quickly and cope with the crises better if they are not put in the way of loud stones or blocked the way. That is why real and rapid assistance measures are needed to ensure the survival of entrepreneurs. Create clarity, provide support that also deserves the name, and then stay with it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e20145	Next speaker: Mr Max Lercher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e20168	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Please allow me, at the beginning of my speech, to separate two things from one another in the sense of a good debate: One is the health crisis, the other is this incredible social and economic crisis that is meeting us right now. In the context of the health crisis, the Social Democracy and my group, I believe, have demonstrated impressively that they are a constructive force in the sense of Austria and the Republic. More than that: Our chairman has led you excellently over many parts with her expertise. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] By the way: If you had been more involved, you would have saved a lot of consulting costs, gentlemen of the ÖVP! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I do not want to say anything else, you have also taken good measures – I do not want to say that – but we now see that we are sleeping in an incredible economic crisis. There you have to assume responsibility, because through the defiance of the epidemic law have She's got a lot of this miser, ladies and gentlemen! In contrast to many warnings from the opposition parties, but also from experts, they played the confidence of the economy, where it was so enormously important. Before the lockdown, in the most important phase in which uncertainty has begun, they have signaled the economy in Austria: You can't rely on the state! – You have to bear this debt now, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, you are always very sympathetic in your speeches if You say thank you 35 times – and you say thank you very much – but if the thanks are worth something, you will decide with us the Corona Thousands for the so many people who have now worked. Choose with us that the first EUR 1 700 is tax-free! Choose with us the increase in unemployment benefit! Let us make a package for the really hard-working people in this country, because we need it in the sense of an economic recovery. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me give you another comment: Mr Bundeskanzler, you are always talking about international comparisons, of how good Austria is in them. But if in these international comparisons Vienna is good, you don't know anything about it. I mean, in dealing with our federal capital, it would be very, very serious, also to perceive these comparisons once, in the sense of a constructive policy that is not influenced by party hack. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] “It costs what it wants,” you said – and that is what we want to measure you. 38 billion euros you have decided that the cash is 464 million euros – too little, the money definitely does not come, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Decide is one, pour out the other. And quite, many are rightly desperate, for they hear of the sums day after day, but nothing comes. This is again about confidence that you deliberately fail to produce through this approach. No, more. They have managed to create with the Chamber of Commerce a bureaucracy sample that now gives everything, just not security. This reminds me of the five-year plans in the Soviet Union at that time: They have also announced every five years, there are rubber boots, but they have never come, ladies and gentlemen, dear! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The fact that the EIA is presenting such a model in connection with this economic crisis is already unique. As Mr Ottenschlager, I think, has said that you do not know the examples, I would also like to bring you one, namely that of Mr Schwingenschlögl. Tattoo Art. He says: “I have taken every obstacle that has been put in my way in recent years. And now the state wants to steal from duty. It's a naughtiness." He is right, it is indeed a cowardice, ladies and gentlemen, because the social state was created to return tax money to where it was generated in difficult times. But they boycott the classification of this wonderful model, it doesn't work as it would have worked with the epidemic law. Finally, one more thing: Most likely, the short-time work model that you are always so happy to mention is the best of your actions, because a few reds have worked on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e20277	Next speaker: Mr Georg Strasser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e20299	Madam President. Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! On an objective level – I would like to put it in the same way as Mr Lercher – the first part: health problems. There are a few doctors in our political groups, I begin with Mrs. Rendi-Wagner: I share the opinion that their contributions in the first phase were very constructive and helpful, so to speak, due to their medical and scientific training, but now I do not understand their swirling that everything would be so to speak very inferior, everything would be nothing. We too have a lot of contact in the constituencies, there is much praise and there is also criticism. The statements made by the Federal Chancellor and also by the Minister of Finance on this morning are groundbreaking, please see that, if there are problems, we are improving the systems. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Now to the next doctor, a doctor in the FPÖ round: Ms. Dr. Belakovich. With her, I'm doing very hard now. It is not your speech today, but it is the speeches of the last few weeks that really make me doubt whether you really take it seriously with the health of people. And with your box, corona soreness, the stomach turns around. I would therefore like to ask you whether you really care about people's health. [[Abg. Belakovich: In any case more than the Federal Chancellor!]] Now I come to our doctors, and I want to call them Josef Smolle. I remember a club meeting where Josef Smolle got up and said: As politicians, we are not only committed to protecting the older generation, but also other sensitive groups of people, as well as to protecting the Constitution! – I think Josef Smolle deserved an applause for this statement today. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Finally, part one: I do not want to exchange with Sweden, not with France, not with the United Kingdom and not with the USA or Russia at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] First part completed – second part: the topics in agriculture. We have been on an under-average level in agriculture before the crisis. It was necessary to talk about tax reforms, tax reliefs – and then the crisis came and the situation did not improve significantly, clearly. I am grateful for the offers that also apply to agricultural holdings via the Hardening Fund: There are 2 500 applications from agriculture and forestry and 1 500 applications from the farm holidays and also from the private room rental area. I say that this is a first part of the aid; the plans are now heading towards the forestry package, towards tax reform, towards tax relief – we need agriculture on board so that we can improve the capacity for farmers to run in Austria again. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Now a little atmospheric: The wording of the government was the comeback, the confidence and the hope. I think we would be well advised to be less emotional in this House and to strengthen the solidarity of the population. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] I would like to tell you this, because the calls from the population often cover themselves with the statement that the colleague of the Greens has heard from her mother: When people look at us, they often don't understand the world. I wish us all the best. – Less emotionalization, more solidarity; we are on a good path!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e20372	Next speaker: Mr Gerald Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e20394	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to say a word about Mr Strasser: You already have to read our anti-coronapetition as a whole. In fact, it begins with the demand for maximum protection of the health sector, the nursing sector, the medical sector, to ensure that this area is adequately secured with protective masks, protective suits and so on. You always drop that under the table, but that's part of it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to thank the SPÖ for the urgent request on the subject of “It takes real help instead of empty promises” and would like to repeat my objection: [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] We are discussing the aid today, because the government from ÖVP and the Greens has removed the Epidemic Act and instead has introduced its own aid packages, says the legal claim to ad acta. One now depends on “willkür” – under quotation marks – in aid programs. That is why we are here today to discuss this issue. However, I would like to deal with the point of empty promises: Mr Bundeskanzler, you meant if there were any suggestions to let them be known. I have a great suggestion: I'm fighting – please, I'm fighting! – like many others for months for justice for rural areas, for private owners of rooms and apartments that carry out this activity in the context of domestic acquisition and acquisition. That's crucial. There, these private owners of rooms – and apartments – are still not corrected – are massively disadvantaged compared to, for example, farm holiday providers. Now I say immediately that I support every measure for holidays at the farm maximum, so do not want to say: one less, the other more! – No, these measures for farm holidays are important, they are correct because they help rural areas because they secure the workplace at home. That's the decisive thing. Now up to date: ==References== In March 2020, the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Regions and Tourism, and the Austrian Chamber of Agriculture, were granted to the farmers and the farmers for the fund of hardness. I quote from it: “The emergency aid provided by the Hardfall Fund will help those agricultural and forestry farms that generate their income purely from agricultural and forestry production.” And then it's concrete: ‘Concretely, [...] businesses, private rooms or apartments in the agricultural and forestry by-products sector’ – says: ‘Holiday at the farm’ – ‘renting’. – That is, 27. March was documented in writing outside that all private owners of rooms and apartments on holiday at the farm have the right to compensation for the earnings according to the hard-fall fund. At this time, the private owners of rooms as well as from apartments to 100 percent fell by rust. Although they are equal, although they are also managed in the context of the domestic acquisition and ancillary acquisition at the place of residence of the person concerned, this claim has not existed. I quote from a reply letter from Mag. Anton Zimmermann, Head of Department of V, Tourism and Regional Policy. – Dear Chancellor, give me your ear! – In this letter, of 7 April, the Court of Justice of the European Communities, of the European Communities and of the European Communities, of the European Communities, of the one part, and of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part. The original hardness fund law did not take into account any private room rental or rental, but only self-employed and farmers were able to benefit from the hardness fund and apply for funding. In the context of a novel of the Hardfall Fund Act, the second funding phase has succeeded in including at least – he himself says – private room tenants and private tenants of private guest rooms in his own household with a maximum of ten beds that are not subject to commercial regulations. Of course – he says then – we can understand the disappointment of apartment tenants and continue to be open to conversations. - Quote. That is, despite massive intervention and although I have also called on Mrs Köstinger to accept this subject in the context of a video conference, the current state of play is that the private owners of apartments – and that is 80 percent of all owners in the context of domestic acquisitions and acquisitions – continue to fall through the rust. Mr Bundeskanzler, 40 000 businesses, these are the smallest of the little ones, these are the little ones who have a maximum of ten beds, either in private rooms or in apartments, fall to the fullest by the rust! I'm storming, others are storming, it's almost nothing. Our commitment at least made it possible to include private room tenants in these criteria. Finally, another injustice – I say it: Injustice! –: How does that look with compensation now? – There is this filling-up aid for private room tenants as well as for farm holiday providers. This filling aid shall include the determination of compensation. To get this to the point: Redemption last year: one month; This year's proceeds; assumed: 10 000 euros; and 50 percent of the cost of private room rental is deducted to the basis of the calculation; 30 percent is deducted on farm holidays. No one can explain to me why with the private owners – one and the same! – 50 percent are deducted to get on the basis of the calculation, and only 30 percent on holidays at the farm. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] This has not been able to tell me anyone, despite intense written originality, to this day. [[Abg. Loacker: This is the farm!]] I come to the end, I've already crossed the time again: Mr Bundeskanzler, tomorrow we will put forward an initiative in this regard in Parliament, with which we demand the equality of the private owners of apartments in the same house where the headquarters is located, and hope that this truly massive injustice between holidays on the farm and the private owners - - [[President Bures gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e20450	Mr President, the Group speaking time has been exhausted. [[In the case of the FPÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. Hauser.]] [[Abg. Matznetter: Why does he wonder, they are in the same insurance institution as the...!]] Mrs Eva Blimlinger has spoken. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e20488	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! Once again, it is about art and culture. The SPÖ is asked why the art and culture were given no or too little importance. Of course, I have to contradict this: We have always given importance to art and culture. This has not always been the case with the previous governments and the Ministers of Art and Culture of the SPÖ. In order to refer to my colleagues Markus Koza, who today rightly said in his speech on the budget that we need a strong social state: We need this for art and culture more than in all other areas, as it is now evident, because there have been over the last 20 or 25 years, perhaps even 30 years of gross failure, which is now particularly evident in this corona crisis. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Big farmer.]] This can be seen very well both in the free scene and in the established houses. Allow me to mention a few examples: Since Elisabeth Gehrer, it has not succeeded in increasing the basic subsidies, and that has been more than 20 years ago. This then led to the fact that the museums have a high need to push on their own cover again and again, but this is now causing them to stand there with a low base subsidy and therefore hardly to carry on their houses – for example, the Belvedere, the Albertina or also the Kunsthistorische Museum. It was always a matter of giving economics, so to speak, that more be taken in order to save itself from increasing the basic subsidy. Now you're standing in front of the shards without considering what happens when that's not given anymore. How we're going to get hold of this will show up. There will also be a need for new concepts. To mention the social state again: Except in the Kunsthistorisches Museum, there has never been a collective agreement in the Federal Museums. This is a revenge now because people have to be terminated because there is a completely different framework and we have to look at how we get that up in the next time – we have it in the government programme. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But let's go to other areas such as the free scene: The free scene is particularly affected because there was, of course, locked up there and there is hardly any possibility of doing anything, although the artists are creative in a way that I sometimes want from such urgent questions would be because they find formats that are accessible to many people. The problem is, they usually don't matter. In the meantime, however, there are web formats that are also number formats – which is good, so to speak, so to speak, for the users there to get art from the finest and also to pay a bit for it to benefit the artists. They have no performance possibilities, they have no presentation possibilities, and there is no security because there has never been any such thing as fair pay situations, an improvement in unemployment insurance even for self-employed people who work in the field – there are a lot of them. There is only this very narrow segment in artist and artist social insurance, but if you have less, you get nothing at all – all very complicated. In this very complicated framework, it was now necessary to take action – admittedly not always the fastest, but this heterogeneous situation in art is also very complicated; this is what makes art and culture: that it is heterogeneous – and to really look at the segment. But there have been very rapid measures, and I would like to point out, too. That is why my thanks go to the collecting societies, which have shown that they can act quickly, with funds – that was also paid out – whether it be the AKM, whether it be the image right, or the Literary Mechana; there was also support from the Künstler Social Insurance Fund. And it does nothing – even if it is constantly spread, it has not been paid out from there –: All the applications received by the Künstler-Socialversicherungsfonds have been made positive and people have received money. – Yes, it was too little, right; second phase. We will see that we can increase this in any way at all, and here of course we see that there is something for the next half year, because that is natural in the arts and culture area. I would have liked a lot of what is now critical – we need money, money, money! – it would have been implemented among the ministers of social democratism already in the decades before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e20561	The next speaker is Mr Helmut Brandstätter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e20583	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: He has a book with him!]] Yes, I have a book with you, and the book will delight you – perhaps you even know it. But I would like to say something else. The health crisis has been addressed, yes, the economic crisis has been addressed, there is still much to say about it, but – and this is my fear – we are also sleeping in a democracy crisis and in a European crisis. Why Democracy Crisis? – I understand a federal government that says we have done very, very well – well of course! – But what I do not understand, Mr Wöginger, is if you say it cannot be criticised here! – We live on the fact that we are dealing with each other, that we are learning from each other, and this includes criticism. In this regard, I also brought a witness, Professor Sprenger, who had been consulting for some time. He said the following: “But we didn’t use this time to generate the knowledge we need for future risk management. So if one reigns in a crisis so that one says we are always right and those who do not agree are wrong, then we will not continue. I am at the next crisis, and this, unfortunately, no longer concerns me professionally – I was very, very, very much a journalist – but as a citizen it concerns me of course: We have a media crisis in the country. If it is the case that only those media are provided with millions of euros to write what you want every day, and those media that are critical, then we will come into a serious democratic crisis. I would suggest that you understand what Angela Merkel – she is, I think, well-known – says: “Freedom always means exercising and appreciating the opinions and beliefs of others. And at the same time, that means putting one’s own thinking and old assurances to the test again and again.” – This is the task of journalists. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Thank you. I know – I will talk and write a lot about this – how journalists in this country are being pressured. Some things to stop saying are dangerous to democracy. - That's it. Now I'm with Alois Mock. This is a wonderful book; [[The speaker gives a copy of the book entitled “Alois Mock. A politician writes history to the height]] Mr. Federal Chancellor,I can really recommend reading it. [[Abg. Belakovich: He hasn't seen it yet!]] Martin Eichtinger and Helmut Wohnout have written it and have described this very impressive man for me very well. But they also quote him. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fürlinger.]] - Excuse me? – Yes, I am writing a book again anyway, but I will not read from it until autumn, but I will be happy to do so. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Fürlinger.]] [[Abg. Kirchbaumer:... Advertising for your own purposes! Naughty...!]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] - Listen! It is about Alois Mock, whom I appreciated, because he not only read and understood the Christian social doctrine, but because he lived it – and there are two essential words to it: These are, of course, subsidiarity and solidarity. In the 1960s and 1970s, Alois Mock wrote essays for the united Europe, including why Austria should join it, and here he is quoted in this beautiful book: “Austria’s commitment to pan-European cooperation and beyond to European political and economic unity is a task that corresponds to its historical and inclusive role, its economic and security interests.” – It is in our interest that we do so. We are back at the economic crisis: Whoever comes here and says that we will cope with the economic crisis without the EU, tells people the untruth, and that is dangerous. If you say here that the EU is preventing us from paying out funding, please say the untruth. – Commissioner Vestager has written to God a very clear, very instructive letter to the Minister for Finance, in which she explained that it is not the EU, but it is up to him if he is unable to pay out the right subsidies. That's why I think so much about Alois Mock and ask the ÖVP to focus more on him. Why? – Because it’s not only nationalism – I also think nationalism is bad – but what I’m currently feeling in Austrian and other governments is a form of chauvinism, and that means making the others worse to increase. We don't need that! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] We're not that bad, we're not so weak. We must not accuse the EU Commission of hindering us from something, we must do the right thing – together in Europe, in solidarity in Europe. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e20706	The next speaker is Mr Michael Bernhard. – Ladies and gentlemen, you still have 4 minutes of speaking time. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e20730	Madam President. Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to close this round by trying a actually constructive criticism, without too much volume and without any assumption. This is not easy, however, if you hear Mrs. Götze from the Greens, who underlie us, the opposition, flat-rate pity. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It is not a pity that we are dealing with criticism in terms of content. I would like to point out an abuse that we first experienced in the Family Committee last week, and I remain constructive as far as possible. There's the Corona family hard work fund. This is what you have set up, and we have welcomed NEOS because we believe that the group of families is particularly affected, and because it is important that there is rapid and unbureaucratic help for this too. The Corona Family Hardship Fund has been open since mid-April, and in the last few days – specifically in the last week – I have suddenly reached a lot of letters from different federal states that people who were on 15 May. In April and the following days, the Family Hard Fund applied for no answer and no further money was received. Now, honestly, I have not expected much at the beginning, because when many applications come, there is always one person or another who is waiting a little longer. I went to the Family Committee without any misgivings and the Federal Minister Aschbacher, who is well-known to you, faced the situation – some of the colleagues here were in the Committee – and asked: How can it be that someone is on the 15th? In April, does it submit a request and, after more than a month, has no answer yet? It wasn't about the money in the account yet. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Although the Federal Minister could not answer the question, she passed it on to the Secretary-General and I received a very amazing answer from him. The answer was that for efficiency reasons only the full questions and requests are answered! I was a little baffy because I thought: If an application is incomplete, how should the applicant know that he is incomplete if he does not receive an answer? That's kind of like, I mean, pretty logical. This has triggered a surprising face on the part of the government representatives. My question then was: How many applications have been incomplete and how many have there been overall? – Then they answered me: A five-digit number of applications had been made – whether they were more than 10 000 or 90 000 applications. But they couldn't tell me. Then I asked: How many of these applications have been incomplete and have not been answered? That is where the Secretary-General told me before the Members: about 50 percent! 50 percent of the five-digit number of applicants have therefore completed an incomplete application. These are families that receive family allowances that meet all the criteria – or not, you don't know – and that wait for an answer. These 50 percent, these several thousand families – which I can't say now, are 5,000, I don't suppose they're 50,000, but they're going to be at least 5,000 – have made an incomplete request, wait for the money and haven't got a reply so far. Now we could put this on our flags and say that we NEOS have shown this abuse – but this is not my concern today, Federal Chancellor. My very personal concern and the concern of the people who are affected is that you are looking for a conversation with Minister Aschbacher and are concerned about it – because you also had the idea of this hardening fund, I think – that these families receive an answer. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] I do not even expect you to receive any money, because for that there are the rules and the guidelines, but we should agree that if such a request is made, this person will also receive an answer from the Republic and the Ministry. I therefore ask for a quick solution in the sense of these families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e20807	The next speaker is Mrs Karin Greiner. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have four minutes left. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e20828	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Chancellor, your Minister of Finance is presenting a budget with some figures. I am now almost trying to make you a compliment temporarily, because you are listening to me at this moment – perhaps that remains the case. I have observed this in the last three hours and also in the morning: At least two thirds of the time, you have dedicated yourself to your mobile phone – and Mr. Vice-Chancellor, it was not just you – and this shows us somehow how respectfully to face us, because it was strikingly often the case when opposition politicians stood at the speaker's desk. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Singer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What is fact? – In Austria, we have the highest unemployment rate in the Second Republic; at present, it is more than 588 000 men and women. In Austria, unemployment has increased more than in Germany, but the aid packages are up to five times larger in Germany than in Austria. Mr. Federal Chancellor, your words, was that a promise? You said you would fight for every job – yes, why don't you fight for the entrepreneurs in the field of the EPUs and the SMEs who have been waiting for support for weeks? Please help quickly and unbureaucratically! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So far, we have experienced the opposite. Entrepreneurs are desperate – that obviously leaves you cold – and they are sent to the circle and are really insecure. I mentioned it briefly today: 63 percent of the individual entrepreneurs and 66 percent of the micro-contractors consider the phase 2 of the hardness fund not enough. That's two thirds – that can't leave a German chancellor cold! You also have the responsibility for your Minister of Finance. I may bring a quote from Peter Michael Lingens, whom you most likely know. I quote: “The much too slow flow of aid costs harms the economy even more than a few hundred million too much. Minister of Finance Gernot Blümel’s departure would be just as justified as Ulrike Lunacek’s. Another word on the opening of the border is that you personally have different rules than you otherwise create and expect. Your Foreign Minister said that freedom of movement of persons had to be restored as soon as possible, because we were finally EU citizens. Sure, he's right. As a breeder, I note that local people really have great misunderstandings about the fact that borders with Slovenia and Italy are not opened. What are your priorities? Explain your plan to the Austrians and explain to them why they cannot visit their relatives in Croatia, Slovenia and Italy! Perhaps, however, it will soon appear that they could have done so anyway, and we have only misunderstanded it. Mr Bundeskanzler, please submit a plan, make it clear! I'm appealing to you: Please less stagings and more concrete help! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e20876	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I ask the clubmen if they would like to interrupt the sitting before I come to the vote. Mr. Klubobmann Wöinger? - I'm asking if we're interrupting. This is not a problem, I can interrupt the session briefly. Would you like a break? - No, I don't. Then we come to the votes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schnedlitz, ladies and gentlemen, on ‘Amnesty for ‘Corona-Sinners’’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Selma Yildirim, colleagues, on 'an amnesty law in connection with the partly questionable and. disproportionate implementation of COVID-19 legislation’. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] [[Call to the FPÖ:... Federal President!]] Those who support this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kaniak, fellow Members, on the conclusion with the general COVID-19 obligation in Austria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority, rejected. Vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members of the European Parliament, Mr Leichfried, Mrs Leichfried, Mrs Ewing, on the "Society of saving Austrian jobs and SMEs". I would ask for a sign if you would give your consent to this motion for a resolution. – This is the minority, rejected. [[17:59:41]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e20936	I will resume the negotiations on points 6 and 7 of the agenda. The first speaker after resumption is Mrs Petra Steger. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e20969	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Unfortunately, the Minister of Sport is now no longer here to listen to the speakers of sports, but I will continue where I left off before the interruption, in my criticism of his statements. In fact, it has made me inconceivable that he has spoken today about a budget that is actually good for nothing but to take it and give it to the round-table instead of talking about the actual problems of the clubs, the athletes and sports in general here. [[Deputy Chancellor Kogler takes place on the government bank.]] - Ah, there he is. Thank God he is still ready to discuss the sport. It really shocked me that he completely lacked consciousness about it or apparently lacks that there are associations that are really threatened in their existence, that there are clubs and athletes who do not know how to proceed now, which are in front of the prospect that are fighting for survival. Mr Minister, you have made yourself here and you prefer to talk about green sports events and gender budgeting and everything else. Gender budgeting, which is particularly funny, since you - - - certainly you have talked about gender budgeting and gender measures and equality, which is particularly funny, since you have just allowed the men's football, but not women's football. [[Vice Chancellor Kogler: I didn't talk at all!]] [[Vice Chancellor Kogler: No!]] – Congratulations on this equality! [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and the representatives of the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Worm: Super!]] They also sit down and discuss the importance and importance of the daily movement unit, in which the annual amount of EUR 6.4 million flows, and at the same time they do not mind that the students in school are still not allowed to turn – that is still forbidden. It is precisely because of this that I have made a request in this regard before, in order to ensure, as soon as possible, that the gymnasium and also the rapid opening of all sports facilities for wide-ranging sport are re-established, which would be extremely important for health, not only for our children, but also for the general public. Finally stop seeing sport as a danger, but finally as a means to fight the corona virus, Mr. Minister! What would interest me in this regard, Mr Minister, is whether you have ever sought the conversation with Mr Fäsmann. Have you been looking for this conversation or have you just not been able to get through again? This was your excuse in the budget, with Minister of Finance Blümel, for the fact that there is still no means for sport to date. How long has this been since? – It’s been over three months since you first announced that there should be aid payments – three months, and still no single cent has flown! [[Vice Chancellor Kogler: Three months ago was February!]] – Three months ago, yes, you started talking about the first possible tools. At some point, 700 million euros will come now, but you'll get all the non-profit associations into a pot again; Clubs that could not be different, whether in the fields of sport, art, culture, animal protection or anything I know everything. Nobody understands. Just as sport has been treated stepmotherly in the past, I already see the danger that at the end of the sport will stay on track again, Mr. Minister! I say, if you do not act now, if there are these payments for sport, for the clubs, if there are no such aids, then it will be too late, then it says Game over, then it is over, then we will see ourselves in the next few months with a mass club death, dear Mr Minister! For this reason, I would like to make another request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and of the Greens, you have shown in recent months that sport has no great importance for you. You now have two applications that would be incredibly important, not only for sport, but also for the health of the population and our children, show that you are concerned about sports and these things! [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of Mr Eypeltauer and Mr Shetty.]] [[18:04]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e21170	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Martina Diesner-Wais. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e21197	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! President of the Court of Auditors! Dear People's Lawyers! The draft budget ensures more money for the police, for the federal army, for justice, for climate protection, for rural areas and for more staff in the public prosecutor's office. This is a good sign, and in this sense only everyone can be for it. In addition to the Court of Auditors, the Public Prosecutor's Office is an important control body of our Parliament. For 2020, the total budget of the Public Prosecutor's Office is 12.2 million euros, equivalent to an increase of 5.6 percent compared to 2019. The public prosecutor's duties become more, are diverse, and therefore it is also justified that more staff is needed, for many people see the public prosecutor's office as a safe point of contact for their problems. We all know that the People's Procuratorate is there for four main topics: first for the individual complaints of our population. As she always acts satisfactory, competent, the people are satisfied. The People's Procuratorate is always trying to help the citizen to his right, and that in many areas – I can only take out a few – whether it's care money classifications, space planning or building law. As popular as the public prosecutor is, we see that there were 16 600 complaints in 2019, which is 67 complaints a day – a large amount. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] The People's Procuratorate also shows us the deficits in the administration, so that we have the opportunity to correct. The public prosecutor is not only an examiner, but also a mediator between the citizens and the authorities. The second issue concerns the preventive control of the protection of human rights for those who are restricted in private institutions or in public institutions in their freedom. It is controlled by the Public Prosecutor's Office, and 500 reviews are planned for 2021. This is a valuable and important task. The People's Procuratorate is – thirdly – also active in the international field and – fourthly – in the Home Victim Pension Commission. People who have been in homes, nurses or hospitals as children and who have been victims of violence there can apply for an additional pension since 2017; the examination is subject to the Public Prosecutor's Office's examination. This is a valuable task. In summary, one can say about the People's Procuratorate that it has a high quality of examination and a broad acceptance in the population. As has already been said, there are a lot of complaints that are being made to them because this is of course free and because it has a low level of access. This is not a matter of course, and that is why I would like to express special thanks to the three prosecutors, for they are the ones who embody the People's Procurement together with the employees outside. They are very committed and also very sensitive, that is necessary especially on many thematic points addressed to the public prosecutors. I am particularly pleased about the expansion of the planning sites. There are now 89 planning sites; this is an increase of eleven planning sites. It is important that we have good employees in the People's Procuratorate, and that is also to be secured. It is the biggest increase since 2012, since the Opcat Enforcement Act has been added. Finally, I would like to express my warmest thanks to the lawyers and, of course, to the Minister for Finance, that there is a budget increase. – Thank you very much, that is in the sense of our citizens, so that they can continue to come to their right in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e21262	Next, Mr Yannick Shetty will speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e21286	Madam President. Dear ministers! Federal Minister! Honourable People's Lawyers! President of the Court of Auditors! It is a shame that the Minister responsible for Integration – on this point we are speaking here today – is no longer here, but it has already been said a lot. The integration budget is very short, very unspecific, and unfortunately, in the relevant committee, in the Budget Committee, when we discussed integration, there were no answers from the competent minister to the questions that really burn us on the whole area of labour market integration, no answers to the integration year, to the competence checks at the AMS. Mrs Federal Minister Raab has repeatedly said that she is not responsible, this falls within the responsibility of other ministries. It may be that she is not competent in the specific field, but we expect a Minister of Integration to perform a coordinating role there, and if she is at every point – really at every point! – says that she does not feel responsible, I wonder what we have this first Minister of Integration at all for integration. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] To the budget – I think that has already been said several times –: Yes, it's good that it's more than last year, but you have to know that last year the budget was cut by twenty million and we now have a third less budget in the integration area compared to the time before black and blue. At a third of the budget, I would like to refer in particular to the Greens: The priorities of black and blue, especially in the area of integration, cannot be the benchmark for the greens in the government. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Y ılmaz.]] Mrs. Raab, Federal Minister, now says: It's not been shortened, it's just re-story. However, all private and state representatives of integration say: The money is missing at all corners and ends! – Yes, for me it is clear to whom I give faith in this different representation of reality. Integration policy is for Turquoise-Green as well as for Turquoise-Blue: This is rather a question of prevention than of facilitation, of identity policy, of identity rhetoric rather than of objectivity, of symbolism rather than of physical policy. I have to say: If we look at the reporting of the last months, we felt that the Minister of Integration was talking more often about the ban on the headscarf than, for example, about focal schools. [[Abg. Yılmaz: Sure!]] The first child of concern is integration. Under this UG, however, we also discuss sports, and the sport is – as has already been said by colleague Steger – at least as big a child of concern at the moment. Previously, praise to Federal Minister Kogler. I was in both committees, integration and sport, and I must say, at least in the way he deals with us MEPs, one already notices a difference between turquoise and green ministers. There have been answers, but unfortunately we are similarly critical. We are critical of the basic structure of the sports system, but I do not want to waste too much time on it, but rather talk about sport in the times of Corona. Unfortunately, our impression is that – as well as in the cultural sector – a lot of sleep has been lost. The next disaster is now taking place in the sports area. I would just like to give an example to illustrate this: The many yoga studios, the Pilate studios, were said: You can't do your courses in there now – that's what they understand by the way – please go outside! If you look at how the situation is, for example, in cities like Vienna, you have to ask: Where to go, for example, to the federal gardens that have been often strapped here? I would like to read to you what the federal gardens write to yoga studios – I quote: Ladies! As requests for commercial yoga, turns et cetera have increased recently, the Federal Gardens would like to point out again that, if approved, this is only possible on a fee basis in the federal gardens. We have not approved all requests up to now. We're asking to keep the park regulations. Our rates start at EUR 1 070 per day. - Quote. Are you kidding those affected? It is impossible for those concerned to conduct courses in federal gardens, and that is why we are calling for You're here to present real practical solutions. To this end, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Please act, according to the culture, the sport cannot be the next disaster in your ministry! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[18:14]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e21433	Mr Shetty, I have not given you a call for order now, but I would ask you not to violate the dignity of the House and therefore not use such an expression. The motion for a resolution you have tabled is under negotiation. Mr Werner Kogler spoke as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e21462	Madam President, if you allow me to say a second word, I should like to refer in particular to the comments made by Mr Steger. But now to the previous speaker: Mr Shetty, my house is not responsible for references to federal gardens. I can't imagine that something has come from there, not even in connection with the body parts you apostrophic. I do not understand this right now, but we are not responsible for both. There is also no indication that something would have come in this direction. There seems to be a misunderstanding at all, who is responsible for what. As a rule, these are regulations from the Ministry of Health, which are, however, relatively thoughtful and coordinated with us, because we often act as intermediaries at the Ministry of Sports. Now for the reason of my speech and for the very dedicated speaking Members Steger: I really like it when there is such an argument, and I would like to remove a misunderstanding as to the statements regarding female – in the case – and team sports; it would not be good if this were to remain so. That was our concern: It has not been a question of regulating only for the Bundesliga – in this case the men, then the first and second leagues – with a special game concept through which the so-called ghost games can take place, which is now successful; it is neither about gender differentiation nor a differentiation of the sport. It is now so regulated – for several reasons of equal treatment – that everyone – even if there is a 1st-class union somewhere – who meets these conceptual requirements, which are now on the basis of health policy, can do the same. [[Abg. Martin Graf: Then you have to take over the costs!]] By the way, since this is always such a topic, it is much more easy than in the Federal Republic of Germany. This has to do with the fact that, as elsewhere, we have not done the same health policy distractions at all. There, the Robert Koch Institute, which has been oriented in the Federal Republic of Germany, has made more recommendations than our task forces here, and of course this follows the attempt to remain consistent. So it would be possible – but that's the matter of the respective leagues – and that was very important to me and a concern that the women's league takes up operation; in handball, in hockey, wherever, even in the non-profi area. [[Abg. Martin Graf: Then you have to pay it!]] [[Abg. Steger: Then take action!]] The fact that this cannot or does not want to be done anywhere is on a different sheet. It is quite obvious that not everyone can or will. By the way, the second league has also succeeded in doing this now. But they have decided for themselves. They all decide for themselves. You may also not be aware that in Austria, the Ministry of Sports is not responsible for the Bundesliga’s activities, which is responsible for any gender. We don't order rounds who plays against whom, no date of play, and we don't order which game is transmitted by which station. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] But I am glad that the ORF succeeded in negotiating with Sky Sport, which now have the right to buy out a package, which has an indirect high value for the Austrian football clubs, because they can comply with their sponsors or win new sponsors. The indirect value is very, very high. That is why I am also grateful to the ORF, and you can also see that it is cheap and good – that goes in your direction right now – when you have a broken public-law. [[towards FPÖ]] We want to keep silent about the projects you have had there. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Thank you very much, Mrs Shetty pointed out that we in the committee have already – I admit that I did not enter into the details today – been much more profoundly entertained. That's right. I have today given an opinion on projects which are shown in the budget. I have to tell you, too. At some point, something must be right, otherwise I'll talk for three hours. If we talk about a budget that is available on the figures, but you always claim that there is no such thing, it is also wrong. So you agree! You can also hold a political group meeting in this area, which will certainly be possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] Now to what you have obviously assembled and have gone off, namely, to talk about the lock-up plans: Since I was just at the Bundesliga: Austria is in terms of sport and, by the way, also culture – you like to mix it, I understand it all, it's all very difficult, I have the greatest understanding of it; the two areas have a parallel – the longest affected by these interventions – yes, these are dramatic cuts. It often goes until autumn. You will not miss the fact that the 600-million euro or 700-million euro package has been designed so large, because we expect six months to be, we have already announced that. I don't see this anywhere else in Europe. Yeah, we could be even faster, and we want that too. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riser]] We can really see that this is going very quickly now, but overall we will then compare in the review, what really happened in what dimension and with what target accuracy. To the lock-up plans: Also there we were Austrians at the first, also in sports. We started training units in top sports areas already the day after Easter – if you now have such a concern – – because there have been many calls, especially for our Olympic participants. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riser]] It has happened as quickly as almost nowhere in Europe. We already opened on 1.5. for many outdoor sports venues, where the sport seemed to make sense to allow it quickly. That wasn't so few then. So I can also invite you to agree with yourself. Logically, golf courses and tennis courts were there, as the distance rules are of course easier to comply with – everyone is invited to use your home mind – and it is possible there faster than elsewhere. But there were many sports venues there, and we were at the first in Europe. I really don't realize that this is then discredited as Golfgaudi. I would also invite you once to address why golf is only bad. I'm not a golfer, I don't understand enough of it, I don't even look at it, I have to confess, I just notice that there are high sums for professional athletes – mainly men again; if that's the FPÖ's such a concern now – that's right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riser]] But to forbid it, it does not happen to me. That's why we always say: As soon as possible, allow what is actually going on, and as few restrictions as possible. So it went on: ==References== In May everything was possible outdoors, just no body contact, even in children. Let's see what we're doing in September. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] But there are also very, very many training units for team and female sports, where you can also do wonderful things with the distance for the sport, which is planned there – we have looked at the concepts –. I am not the Minister of Health, but I would be in mid-May, now soon end of May with the knowledge – we hear what the experts say – that we now have on the virus, on the epidemiological issues that virological questions, do not want to take responsibility for not having anything, you have nothing children and youth groups in a team sport that has constant body contact. [[Abg. Steger:... WHO has...!]] – Yes, if you suggest that, I congratulate everyone who always knows exactly how to do so. I agree with the precautionary principle. It would also be better if this were done so quickly; by the way, we are working on it. [[Abg. Martin Graf: 1. September...?]] Maybe it's on the 1st. September so far. We are getting a big study at the beginning/middle of June, in which we will also include the sports indicators on these epidemic issues. Then you can decide. We are based on fact-finding and solution-oriented and do not simply raise the children into something. And finally, I know how many hundred cases of infection are: Ui,ui,ui,ui! Then who was it? – The Federal Government! You're with the first to unseal your fingers. That's it. So it always remains a weighing; logically, it always remains a weighing. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I have missed a lot now, but from next Friday it is already very, very much possible, up to the distance of two meters in sport, by the way, even when swimming, in tennis or badminton or so, where now doubles are possible. There the short-term breakdown of these distances will be possible, which means that you can play double, otherwise that would not have happened. So up to the last detail, work is being done to make more and more possible, even while taking in more and more risk. We take the risk because it's going well overall. Why does it work well? – Because at the beginning we have taken the right measures quickly and quickly, than others have slept in the pendulum clock, and they are now faced with other deaths. This is also a part of the truth. Now you can say that we overpowered it with our caution. Yes, there were only 250 intensive beds, yes, we have driven up the capacities from 850 to 1 250. That's right! Ui, such a stupid federal government, not 1,000 people in intensive care stations! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] - Well, would that have been good? I mean, no. Yes, we have gone down a lot, by the way, by the way, not all, but many economic and industrial enterprises have gone further – even that is probably your attention has gone away – that's why we also stand there economically better than others. Overall, however, this has also enabled these lock-up plans. Especially in sports, you can see how this looks in the international comparison. [[Abg. Martin Graf:... because the club...!]] I understand, we're here in Austria, and that's the normal game here, there's no new normality, which is also good: Opposition – Government; I know both. That's not just your right, do it like that. However, I allow myself to point out at least a few comparative values. Sometimes the view over the border of our very small country is not so bad. If you do, then you'll see that we're much faster than others. If you ask again that no second wave will come, it will have been wrong again. I tell you: weigh, analyze, decide – so we have done it, so we will continue to do it.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e21657	Next speaker: Mr Johann Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e21681	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Madam President-in-Office of the Council and honourable Members of the People's Procuratorate! As a member of the Court of Auditors, I would like to deal with the Court of Auditors as part of the Chapter on the Supreme Institutions. But I must apologise to the spectators at home for the fact that we are now dealing with a lot of issues. This is due to this part of the agenda that we are discussing, and this leads us to talk about a lot of issues. First of all, the intensive debate on sport, now I can deal with the Court of Auditors again. We have already heard the federal estimate for 2020, which is the total cost of the Court of Auditors of 36 million euros. This is an increase of 3.83 percent compared to 2019. This will ensure that three full-time workers can be included in addition to the provision of IT services and investments in building security. It is crucial, ladies and gentlemen, that the Court of Auditors can carry out its constitutional tasks comprehensively. Yes, in my opinion, this is possible with this budget, but if the Court of Auditors is to receive further tasks, then of course this must also be presented in a budgetary manner. The current situation about the Corona crisis, of course, also affects the Court of Auditors. Madam President Kraker already held 10th. In April, some points were made in a press release. It referred to the rethinking of the health inspection approaches – the key word "acute beds" in hospitals – but also mentioned that the Court of Auditors will examine the economic aid provided in the crisis. She said I quote: “It is important to me that there are no indecent profiters of the Corona crisis. The money must arrive at those who really need it.” – I can only underline this statement. However, it is interesting for me to say the opposition that the Court of Auditors takes into account the opposition’s wishes, in particular SPÖ, on the basis of the statements made by the President in the Ö1-Journal “In the Journal for a Guest”, when examining the coronavirus assistance measures. The issue of the Court of Auditors on 10 June. April was obviously ignored. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, not a collection of the Court of Auditors is needed, but support. Finally, I would like to thank the staff of the Court of Auditors for their high-quality work. Ladies and gentlemen! As mayor, I am very pleased about the municipal investment package of the Federal Government. With the support of the countries, there will be full development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e21732	The next speaker is Mr Maximilian Köllner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e21754	Madam President. High house! Mr. Sports Minister, we have heard a lot, but that doesn't change your previously rather disappointing performance in the field of sport. In principle, this is not the problem, you don't have to do anything for me; I have played football myself for a long time and I know how to deal with setbacks. But even those who are expectingly opposed to your taking up office in the sports resort do not buy you the good intentions anymore. I'm telling them why. At the beginning of the legislative period, I wrote you a letter as a sports speaker to talk to you together and constructively about the future development of sports, so that sports in Austria finally gets the priority he deserves that the added value, movement and sport have for a healthy society. After all, this also saves a few hundred million euros annually in the health system – not to mention the importance for the development of cognitive, social and psychological skills at all. However, they have not been available for a personal discussion until now, nor have we been able to discuss this with you within the framework of a sports committee, although we have called for sports spokesmen of the opposition parties to do so several times. So what you have claimed before the treatment of the essentials is not true. I can assure you, however, that we all have the best for Austrian sport in mind, so you do not need to be afraid of us. I would like to give you another example of why you will become more unbelievable from day to day if you continue. I have referred to you several times directly because of the comprehensive implementation of the daily sports and movement unit: in the budget committee two weeks ago and today again. Today you say she's coming. - I really think that's great. But in fact, it's scurry: At present, we are as far away from this daily unit of motion as man from the moon. You're a fool. [[Abg. Zarits:... by Chancellor!]] – Mr Zarits, by the way, as I have heard and as much as I know, the NPO package is a total of 700 million euros and is not just for sports to correct you. . You are foolish, Minister of Sport, that especially in times of Corona, where the strengthening of the immune system is so important, students of gymnastics are being removed. Please do not come to me now, Minister of Sport, with the excuse, Mr Fäsmann is responsible for this. – Yes, that’s right, but then take him to the chest, because he probably has better knowledge in geography and needs further assistance in sport. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] Moreover, if you had given your party friend, Health Minister Anschober, some Ezzes, you wouldn't have been hurt either. Thus, certain practical and sometimes existential requirements for athletes, gym, yoga studio and dance studio operators could have been avoided. My colleague from NEOS is right. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Most important of today's day is very short, the money: What about the aid package for the 15 000 sports clubs in Austria? Say a date! The officials are just waiting for the Go of you and the Minister of Finance. I'm really excited about when what actually comes. We have been addressing the problems here in plenary for months. We had also submitted applications on the part of the opposition, which would disappear in the Ladl. I already know that Finance Minister Blümel – he's not a success from the ÖVP – doesn't give you success, but then you'll get off the elbows like on the football field; there you have to learn how to stand. For this is how you will stay for a long time only the climber of the ÖVP until the chancellor also suspends this government. Goethe could not have described the situation in sport better than with: “I hear the message well, I alone lack faith.” – But a letter is given up, for which the sport is too important. I can only express my offer for a constructive conversation once again.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e21802	The next speaker is Mr Karl Schmidhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e21827	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! President of the Court of Auditors! Dear People's Lawyers! As President of the Styrian Ski Association – volunteer, as well as many officials in Austria – I am already allowed to hold something for skiing. It has been said that the Minister of Sports only had something left for golf, football and tennis. With regard to the equal treatment which Mrs Petra Steger spoke about, I should like to say that: As one of the first nations, we have brought the Austrian athletes to the glaciers for training, because we have presented a good package that the Ministry of Sports has reviewed and released to the Minister of Health. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light snow]] So: Those who submit a good concept will also be used accordingly. I also do not want to put the voluntary aspect to the fore again. What would be the sport without the volunteer helpers?- Oh, my God! In the future, and therefore I ask you, Minister of Sport, to place particular emphasis on this Office of Honor and not only to express appreciation, but to implement the package we have in the government programme step by step. I am very, very happy about our solutions for Austrian sport, not only for top sports, we will now also start training in the country frameworks – and there is no difference whether they are ladies or gentlemen, girls or boys. Thank you very much, Minister of Sport, for being able to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e21866	Next speaker is Mrs Edith Mühlberghuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e21890	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Estimated Volksanwälte! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The People's Procuratorate is the second smallest supreme organ and can count on more budget. For the People's Procuratorate, the Federal Estimate 2020 foresees 12.24 million euros, which is an increase of 5.6 percent. In 2020, however, not only more tasks will be dealt with, but it is also for the People's Procuratorate's Staff Plan. More at planning points, namely one out of eleven planning points compared to 2019, so that they are 89 planning points. In addition, more tasks also mean more responsibility, such as through the Home Victim Pension Act. Since 2017, the People's Procuratorate has been dealing with this Proposals. The planning sites are limited to 2023. It is hoped that the number of these applications will decline over time and that this will then be commuted. The Corona crisis has also affected the public prosecutor's office, the number of complaints has become more. To date, more than a hundred complaints have been filed, in particular with regard to the fund of hardness and police intervention in the checks. More complaints are also expected in the health and social sphere. This is due to the speaking hours that have been missed or have been postponed or have been postponed. I would like to mention that, as has already been said, the People's Procuratorate is the second-smallest organ. The proportion of women is 67 percent, not just because of the quota, but because of the qualification. Finally, I would like to thank the lawyers and the public prosecutors for their commitment, for their work and for their good cooperation. But I would also like to thank you for the speech in the districts where you have found the proximity to the population, to the people. Because of the Corona crisis, this spokesperson cannot be carried out at the moment, but in the foreseeable future they are possible again. – I wish the People’s Procuratorate, the Volksanwälten for the future all the best.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e21939	Next speaker: Mr Rudolf Silvan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e21963	Madam President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! Mrs. Minister! Mr. Volksanwälte! It has already been said several times that the increase in the budget is welcomed for the public prosecutor's office. I do, of course, too, but I think that the funds will be too small, because 60 to 80 complaints per week are now in the public prosecutor's office in connection with the German government's covid measures. It is, as has been said, welcome that there is a slight increase in the public prosecutor's budget, but these funds will not be sufficient due to the expected flood of complaints from today's point of view. According to popular lawyer Walter Rosenkranz, many of these complaints concern the police. He rightly criticized the fact that there were no clear instructions for police officers on the street. This is not a criticism of the police, but a criticism of the Minister of the Interior, who does not provide them with sufficient and sufficiently precise instructions for the Covid protection measures. – Thank you at this point to the police who are doing an excellent job. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Just because there are no precise instructions for action, there is often a curious situation. For example, a man sitting on the Danube Island in Vienna alone on a park bench had to pay 500 euros of fine because he did not keep the distance to the passing walkers. In Judenburg, a woman's shopping bag was checked when leaving a grocery store – for whatever reason. Just these people who had to pay for punishment, just those people who have strictly adhered to the corona protection measures for weeks, must then see how the Chancellor – yes, not oye!, it is so – takes a small bath in the crowd in the Kleinwalsertal. [[Call the ÖVP: Oh!]] It is hardly surprising then when complaints at the public prosecutor's office increase and accumulate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second part of the complaints concerns the Coronahardfall Fund. After countless announcements in more than 70 press conferences, thousands of individuals and small and medium-sized enterprises feel left out by the government. Much too bureaucratic, much too late, far too little or no help at all, that is the tenor of entrepreneurs. Several entrepreneurs have written to me, and that means something if an entrepreneur or an entrepreneur asks a social-democratic trade unionist for help. An entrepreneur who wrote to me has received 500 euros in the first phase and 9.58 euros in the second phase. [[Call the SPÖ:Boah!]] ==References== ==References== So in May this man had to come out with 509,58 euros, and the tragedy is: He doesn't lock up anymore. But it's even worse: This company could, if it were in Germany or Switzerland, be continued. – This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You will also have to look at the situation in the nursing homes, for example, why old people were not allowed to walk in the gardens of their care facilities during the Covid crisis. People need security, clarity, confidence in politics – this government has done the opposite! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e22028	Mr Volksanwalt Werner Amon has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e22049	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Madam President of the Court of Auditors. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear Members of the People's Lawyers! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to begin by thanking my colleagues, the Federal Ministry of Finance, the Minister for Finance for the very constructive and transparent negotiations on the public prosecutor's budget. I would like to thank the House, of course, for, in the end, the budgetary authority lies with the House. We had a very interesting, very good discussion in the Committee on Budgets, on the one hand, on the budget, and, of course, on a number of issues of content. The 2020 estimate foresees an increase of 5.6 percent for the public prosecutors, an increase of 759,000 euros. This may be a nice increase, especially if you consider the percentage, and in reality it is due to a certain increase in staff that will be granted to the public prosecutors. Mrs. President of the People's Procuratorate Committee and other Members have already referred to this. However, I would like to say that this is actually an understanding, because since 2009 we have been responsible for the implementation of the Home Victim Pension Act. The number of applications is still increasing, people who have been abused or abused in homes between 1945 and 1999 are still reporting, and the public prosecutor has the opportunity to grant them a small pension after examination by a corresponding Commission, which is filled with experts. At the time, temporary staff or posts were provided for this purpose, but they would have run out, and since we see clearly that there are still a lot of applications, a corresponding resource was provided for this, and I would like to thank you, also on behalf of my colleagues. The public prosecutor's duties are varied, they are a lot more diverse than the public is commonly known, because what is known is above all the verifiable control. We act very strongly as a mediator within the administration, whether it be the federal administration or the state administrations; with the exception of Tyrol and Vorarlberg, who, as you know, have their own public prosecutors. There we are only responsible for the federal administration, but not for the state and municipal administration. In all the other federal states, we are the national constitutions at the same time also the national lawyers and therefore also examine the national administrations. So this is the checking check that deals with the administration. In addition, there are still a number of other tasks, I have already mentioned the Home Victim Pension Act. We also pay attention to compliance with the UN Disability Convention – an essential task of the People's Procuratorate – and we exercise the so-called Opcat mandate. To this end, we are serving six expert committees, which are interdisciplinary, and in order to ensure the preventive protection of human rights, we are monitoring and verifying all places of restriction or withdrawal of freedom; a very, very essential task of the People's Procuratorate, in which we operate as a national prevention mechanism for the protection of human rights. Since 2009, the People's Procuratorate has also been the headquarters of the IOI, the International Ombudsman Institute, the global organization in which all ombuds institutions are organized worldwide. These are now almost 200 organizations from 104 countries, and Austria is currently in its seat. This is an essential task, especially for the exchange of best practice models with a view to auditing, but above all with regard to the protection of human rights. In this sense, the tasks are diverse. But there is, of course, also the public prosecutor's wish – I may join the President of the Court of Auditors – to expand our audit expertise from the perspective of our daily work. In particular, we are concerned with examining distributed facilities, which remain 100 percent owned by local authorities and in particular the areas of general care. For example, I should like to mention the Vienna lines on the question of the right of disabled persons to transport in the public sector. If there are cases of problems with us, we are already approaching the Vienna lines today, and I must expressly say that cooperation with distributed facilities usually works very, very well. But of course it is also a matter of legal certainty, and that is why it would be a matter of concern for us to be able to review such institutions. In this sense, I think, the budget is an appropriate budget. We will also have the opportunity to access our reserves with the approval of the Ministry of Finance. In recent years, the public prosecutor's office has been very economical with its excellent employees, I would also like to stress. Since we are all relatively new in office, we have been able to convince ourselves from the very beginning of what great expertise can be found in the House of Public Prosecutors, not only in the administration that I mentioned in terms of the economical handling of our budget, but of course also in all other areas. But through the possibility of using the reserves, we will be able to get through the next one, two years with this budget approach very well and can cover the costs for the staff. At the latest, however, we will return to the House and ask you to support us accordingly. In this sense, we thank ourselves for this budget approach, and at the same time I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e22103	Thanks a lot. The next item is the speech by Mr Alois Kainz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e22131	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! Estimated representatives of the People's Procuratorate! High house! Madam President of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors is the supreme control body of our Republic, and as such it examines the efficiency and effectiveness of our state economy. Of course, the Court of Auditors can only fulfil this task if the budget is in line with work. For 2020, 36 million euros are available to the Court of Auditors in accordance with the federal estimate 2020. In other words, the budget has been increased by 3.8 percent compared to the previous year, which I welcome, as it will ensure that other planning sites can be financed. Ladies and gentlemen! The Corona crisis has brought about many changes, not only for us but also for the work of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors not only had to make electronic changes and rely more on digitalisation, but also, in the face of the crisis, some reports need to be revised or re-evaluated. Madam President-in-Office of the Council, you have already announced that there is a general need to re-evaluate the previous approaches. I would like to agree with this because in my view it is wrong to focus on rigid approaches. I think that a re-evaluation of the previous approaches can be seen as a positive development of the work of the Court of Auditors. Finally, I would like to say that I am very grateful that we in our country have an over-party institution like the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors will deal intensively with the Covid-19 measures over the next few months, and in this context the re-evaluation of the previous approaches is certainly beneficial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e22168	Next speaker: Mr Christian Hafenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e22189	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear member of the government! President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Volksanwälte! I would just like to take a very brief look at the speech by Mrs Vogluer, who mentioned earlier that minority rights for the Slovenians in Austria are very, very important and very high. No question, of course we also confess, but I also hope that, on the other hand, it is not forgotten that the German minority in Slovenia is not recognised at all and is therefore still a righted minority. I think that is also a state that is not sustainable in Central Europe. I would ask you here from the speaker's desk to support us in resolving this injustice in the near future. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am now referring to the division 10: Federal Chancellery. Yes, the Covid-19 measures already have serious consequences for all of us. There will be the next generations who will have to work it out. The damage, ladies and gentlemen, has not yet been foreseen, and we must be aware of that. I would therefore also like to join with my colleagues, Mr Zanger, who has previously found very, very drastic words on the reduction of democracy in Austria. It is truly stunning at what speed it took and that the greens have still participated. Yes, I also recognize the state's characteristics, it takes care of itself, and the Greens also participate as contributors. Now I am, ladies and gentlemen, not Gerda Rogers, the Chancellors of the Federal Republic of Germany have predicted a great future, but I would like to predict something to the Greens: You will experience a very, very bad awakening because your government will not hold. I'll give you a few thoughts, for example, how the message control actually works. Just think about it: All the bans, everything that has affected the Shutdown, have had to comment on and order, Mr Vice-Chancellor. All that is connected with easings now communicates Federal Chancellor Kurz. If I were with the Greens – which could not happen to me – I would start thinking slowly. Maybe another one: We have also seen scenes of a marriage now, this whole hack: The German government opposes the attack of Chancellor Kurz. Then there are these Leaks with the death stories of the Federal Chancellor. Mrs. Lunacek will be left in the rain. Then the Austro control is transferred, and now Mr Pilnacek is being called back. I think the next thing in this marriage is the ÖVP back to it. Back to Bundeskanzler Kurz: He's on his way to total power. What do you need to do? – Of course, we also need the media to do so, and that is why we have planned campaigns by 20 million euros, which is why we have increased press funding by 16 million euros. The Boulevard and Mr Benko also say thank you. That means it's 40 million euros for the short mania. This is not enough, but it is now still accessible to the statistical offices. The "standard" has recently revealed that Statistics Austria must now supply preliminary statistics to the Federal Government against the code for the statistical offices. Three times you can guess why this is the case. Ladies and gentlemen! The press area is not affected by the use of statistics in Austria, and therefore a Covid-19 transparency package is the command of the hour. We want to know what you're doing with our money. People out there should also see where you're going everywhere. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[18:57]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e22324	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. I am now no longer in favour of speaking, so the discussions on this subject have ended. [[18:57:52]] UG 32: Art and culture
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e22350	We come to the debate on Division 32: Art and culture. First speaker: Mr Thomas Drozda. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e22374	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! This week, the Turkish-green government's first budget will be decided. Under normal conditions, this budget could well be presented with the predicate, at least in the field of art and culture. But the times, as we all know, are anything but normal, and a new normality does not exist in art and culture – and by the way, nowhere else. Therefore, it is already clear that this budget does not make sense, will not hold, and that the government will give us parliamentarians something and let them debate for three days what de facto macularity is. I now call it questionable, because in all other cases I could probably anticipate an order call. So we are debating a fake budget that is outdated and does not represent the all-determining theme of the last few weeks and the next few months. For example, there is no clarity as to the duration and funding of short-time work – generally not and naturally not with regard to the cultural institutions involved in the debate. Nor are additional funds intended to cover the forecast loss of revenue, such as the Bundestheater, Bundesmuseen or other smaller cultural institutions. We have been informed that funding of these institutions, which are undoubtedly among the world's best in their sectors and which significantly contribute to expressing our country's reputation, will continue to be ensured by August. But what happens in September? What happens to these institutions in October, and why is this not reflected in this budget? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We know about the fatal effects on art and culture in the area of museums, theatres and concert halls. These are the areas that were first locked up, and these are the areas that are now being locked up gradually and as the last one. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The Federal Government, and we have supported it, has made a far-reaching decision: She went down the cultural farm to zero. Now, however, the government must also exercise the responsibility resulting from this decision. I'm not talking about aid packages and I'm not talking about the monastery soup, I'm not talking about alms, I'm talking about a legal claim to compensation for damages. With the exception of the Republic of Austria, the state, no one can solve the problem of missing ticket revenues. The state must take a comprehensive step in and compensate for losses from the lack of ticket sales like other countries, otherwise the crisis will punish mainly those who either have or have a particularly high level of self-financing, or those who have built up reserves over years. In addition, I demand and expect satisfactory implementation of the support measures. A study by the University of Vienna shows that two thirds of the EPUs and small companies do not sufficiently assess the hardness fund with the note. The study was so careful and so thoughtful not to ask the artists, because then the judgment would probably have been even more harsh. The applications are bureaucratic, and the Chamber of Commerce is totally unqualified for the settlement and therefore inappropriate. Therefore, I can only hope and expect the new Secretary of State to take control of things, take control of the budget itself, and do what is now to be done, namely budgeting a billion culture that will ease the emergency and give cultural institutions a perspective for the next three years, and also enable them to catch and stabilize themselves again.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e22432	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Eva Blimlinger. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e22456	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to start with the end, so to speak: Mr Drozda has spoken about bureaucratic requests. Yes, I say this again and again here in the House: bureaucracy is the opposite of arbitrariness. Such a thing must be bureaucratic. It should be easier, I'll give you the right thing. If we were to make it arbitrary, the SPÖ would be among the first to rise up and scream at the Court of Auditors. So bureaucracy must be, because it is tax money, and this should be granted according to non-voluntary standards. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] We are not the mayor of Vienna, who distributes vouchers for taxis and gastronomy, arbitrarily forgiven, but we adhere to rules. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] First of all, I can say that the art and culture budget increased by around 11 million euros in pre-Corona times. Of course, we will need much more, that is perfectly clear, and that is what we are going to need. There are also shifts in the ministry and there are additional means – which I hope become more – for the artists, but also for those who work in the art and culture environment and enable them. This ranges from the mask designer to the sound engineer or the stage worker – whatever –; this is a large group. Of course, we will not return to new normality in art and culture, because there has been no old normality in art and culture either. Art and culture refuse normality, and this makes it so difficult to finance it. That is our concern, however, that we have for the next few years. We'll see how this can work. I said that in my previous speech. For too long it has been pointed out that there is private funding, and for example the museums have repeatedly referred to it: Take third-party funds! Third-party funds! Third-party funds! – Now there is no third-party funding and there is less revenue through visits. This is where we have the salad, for example, because basic subsidies have not been increased and because, in particular, the free scene has not been secured by a strong state social system, whether in the context of unemployment insurance or as a so-called new self-employed person, who was often only new self-employed, because there was no financial framework for employment in the institutions or there was too little subsidies to finance employment relationships that would be more sustainable and socially better secured. It will also be our task here in Parliament to support such a thing and to demand it again and again from the Federal Government. Yes, the Shutdown was the first thing for the arts and culture sector, and as we have already heard, the sports area is already running slowly, step by step, up. That's not easy, it's different for every segment. When I do performances in the dance area, this is something different than when I'm on stage or do discourse or discussion events, where I can organize the event much better. Another word on Mr Drozda's comments: He called the term damage compensation. It can't be a damage because it didn't happen to a car accident when it was said that the opponent was replacing the damage. [[Abg. Drozda: The loss of revenue is very likely a damage!]] A virus and pandemic are no damage, and therefore there is no compensation. There must be a safeguarding of art and culture. It does not replace damage, but it is intended to provide revenue loss, fixed costs, all that is so to speak, to cover the expenditure of the last months and to ensure that no situation arises in which art and culture enter, in order to get them back on track. That must be our concern, and we must work together to ensure that it works. My appeal is: Take note of all this, go to the theater, go to the opera, watch performances and pay the double of what you would normally pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e22505	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Volker Tireberger. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e22526	High house! It is necessary to discuss the art and cultural budget presented by the Minister of Finance today. It is like an increase in Parliament, because even in this area the finance ministers do not even try to picture the corona situation in the budget. Although not legally possible, Minister Blümel could have told us quite honestly: We're not making a budget at all this time, because I don't know how. The Minister of Finance reminds me of Pippi Langstroff, who sings: “Two times three makes four, wide-widewhite and three makes nine, I make the world, wide-ranging as I like it.” Since your budget does not help the arts and culture sector, we are also bringing in today's applications that would really help. Our first request concerns the abolition of the pressure on masks in the arts and culture sector. No one is forced to attend a cultural event against his will. But if there are people – and I am sure there are many of them – who judge this themselves and say: I don't belong to the risk group, I trust to estimate the risk, take it on myself and visit an event where the minimum distance of 1 meter cannot be met and still don't put on a mask!, then should You give the citizens this opportunity to give this freedom, Mr Vice-Chancellor – even if you are going now. [[towards the vice chancellor Kogler, who leaves the hall]] Our approach is self-responsible instead of state premeditation. This delicate opening strategy is a small step in the right direction, but not ambitious enough. But this is probably not due to the old or the new Secretary of State, in fact it is due to a federal chancellor who rules the country by putting it in fear and terror. It is due to a vice chancellor who is not really interested in art and culture and therefore holds a Secretary of State in his own ministry in order to keep this unpleasant issue out of his mind. Finally, it is a folk school teacher as a health minister who, through his legal incompetence as an angle writer, causes enormous individual suffering and harms our country. That is why I ask you again: Stop with this state-appointed corona madness and give us back the old normality! I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] With our second request, we give you another chance to minimize damage. The established voucher system in the arts and culture sector has a serious shortage: They have taken the risk of insolvency on the owners of the property, on the consumers. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In summary and easily understandable: We demand insolvency protection for voucher owners, we reject Your mask wheel and we reject this fakebudget! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[19:11]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e22721	Both motions for resolutions are sufficiently supported, properly put in place and are therefore under negotiation. Mrs Maria Großbauer has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e22749	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! “Art and culture belong to us people, they make us human,” said the new Secretary of State for Culture Andrea Mayer as part of her admission statement. I would like to share this and support and underline this 100% statement. She has also experienced in her last position as a cabinet director at the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, how high the country of culture is Austria worldwide. We have already heard that the budget has been increased, and of course we know that we will need much more than the estimated cultural budget to continue to see the internationally famous, well-known, popular cultural country of Austria at the top of the world, for the culture itself, but of course also for our tourism. Mr Drozda and Mr Pippi-Langstrumff-College Reifenberger, despite Corona, the decision of this budget is of course very important, as you know, so that the financial security for many measures and projects of the individual resorts and the ability to act, of course also of the cultural resort, are ensured. Yes, this crisis has faced all of us with enormous challenges, including in the field of art and culture. But what has our Federal Government done? – She worked day and night to offer help and solutions, to create models to help everyone as much as possible. The most important thing is: It is constantly being improved, re-adjusted. Yes, more support will be needed, for the big institutions, the Bundestheater, the Federal Museums. I would particularly like to highlight the freelance artists. They too need better support. However, I am convinced that this federal government will also find a better solution for it, because the Federal Government is aware of the importance of art and culture for this country. Culture has a social value, a social meaning that you cannot measure in numbers – not everything you can measure in numbers – it is one of our highest goods. Of course, what can be measured in figures is the added value or other facts in the tourism sector. They're impressive: Depending on the calculation, depending on which sectors you add, between 140 000 and 180 000 people are employed in the field of art and culture, the value added is 9 billion euros. The area is closely associated with tourism, more than 70 percent of the Vienna tourists say they come to Vienna and Austria because of the culture. I would like to stress two other federal states, first Salzburg: The Salzburg Festival has a value added of more than 215 million euros in Austria, 183 million euros are spent on the state of Salzburg. I am very glad that the Festival will take place this year. Lower Austria has over 30 000 employees in the field of art and culture, a value added of 1.35 billion euros. The view of Europe shows that the field of art and culture has more employees than the car industry. I am very pleased that yesterday the hot-earned innovations relating to openings for art and culture from 29. ==References== There will also be recommendations for samples for professionals and amateurs, which is also very important for the upcoming summer tourism. The culture is essential, and that is why I have the following request to all of you, including to you, very dear to our guests: If you are on holiday in Austria, please also visit theatre, concerts or cabarets as soon as possible! – Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e22797	Mr Josef Schellhorn came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e22821	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! I am now aware of the fact that the Greens do not recognise economic damage. There is this damage, dear Eva Blimlinger, because you can't buy a lost theatre visit or a lost theatre audience. This is an economic damage as well as in the museums. With the budget there is the following problem, Mr Vice-Chancellor – and we have already made it sound this morning –: Already in the budget before Covid, which Mr Blümel presented here, Valorisation was lacking, and by 2024 alone the cultural budget lacks 50 million euros due to inflation. We do not want to take into account what the failure by Covid means, the barriers and obstacles that have been introduced in the tourism sector. Tourism For example, in the city of Vienna, it is expected that 2024 will only come back so properly again, but only then will the number of nights reach the value of 2019. That means, there's still more money missing. There will be a total of far more than 50 million euros that are missing from the cultural budget or that you have to bring into the museums, into which theatres have to be added. It is all the more amazing – and I discussed this with Mrs Lunacek at the time – that the Secretary of State is no longer equipped with it. I very much hope that State Secretary Mayer will do something about this. Mrs Lunacek or you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, have received a study from the Wifo on a satellite account that should have been published. This is also important for the opposition, and I regard it as your duty in the sense of transparency that you also provide this data to the opposition. That we may not have the study, or that you still keep it closed, I think is very problematic. It is about the missing data base, and we need it in the sense of transparency, in the sense of a well-filled transparency database, if we want to make an evidence-based policy. Only in this way can we learn about double funding, reserves or other things that happen in the cultural budget. That is why I would like to make a request at the next meeting of the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which calls for the creation of a satellite account, because it is particularly important. The country must be responsible outside. We rightly call ourselves a cultural nation. A cultural nation can be seen, however, by how much art is created in the respective country and not by how much art one can buy. I believe that this self-confidence must also prevail, and I believe that it is precisely in the situation we are in now that we need to highlight once again the prelude to the introduction of our own federal cultural foundation, because it is very important. Everyone who reads the interview with Philippe Bishop in the “Salzburger Nachrichten” of the weekend, led by Bernhard Flieher, knows what the Pro Helvetia is doing. I would like to speak to the Lord. Cite Bishop: “In this context, it is obvious that Austria does not have a state-funded organisation that specifically promotes the international cultural exchange between Austria and the world, as many neighbouring countries have, and that in Switzerland, Pro Helvetia [...] is responsible.” I think that's the point. It is now the time to network the international artists and artists in Austria and set up an urgent and bitterly needed office for contemporary artists. It is, I believe, also very important that we equip this office with experts who are proactive in the world looking for artists for contemporary artists and network them with our respective artists. Only such a professional appearance can give rise to the important Austrian cultural scene. We should take this into account. For this we should spend money changing everything a bit now and providing a corresponding office for contemporary art, a corresponding networking. That would be my wish and also a constructive contribution to the question: What can we do for this cultural nation now? That would be the first right step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e22876	The next speaker is Mr Hermann Weratschnig. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e22897	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! There's no area like this. hard hit such as the arts and culture sector. At this point, I would also like to mention all those who work behind the stages that work before and after the events, who are preparing to work on how art can work, not to forget the cleaning staff, billeurs, wardrobes, lighting, stage construction, all that it takes to make art work. Many of these people in the arts and culture sector, yes, they have a sense of despair, uncertainty and waiting. We know there's no scenario we can compare with. All EU countries, all countries face the same challenge and also have the same concerns. It will continue to hurt in many areas in the future. What's our job? – to identify problems quickly, to name them and to take action. This is the work-pension in the cabinets, in the clubs, at the administrative level, with our representatives, with all those responsible in the arts and culture sector. At this point, I would like to thank Secretary of State Andrea Mayer for the fact that these easings, which were announced, were presented with a detailed plan and give confidence to the art and culture scene and that, above all, I believe, the possibility was perceived – and that is, I believe, very important – to include the art and cultural scene in this plan. Again: Thank you. That worked. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] All the more important is a budget without a corona-related cut, a budget that opens up the scope for the day-to-day challenges, and is also confident to continue working on the tasks of the Government Convention. I would like to stress three areas of art and culture which can and must be important and, above all, in the future, are essential in the area of the forthcoming economic programme, for example the architectural heritage as the task of a future economic programme. This is what we are working on, ladies and gentlemen. It's about renovation, it's about monument care, it's about spaces in the culture of memory, it's about spaces for art and with art. This will be future tasks in which we can work. The social security of artists, which has been mentioned many times today, is an important area that we must address. At this point, it should be noted that the artist's social security fund has worked exemplaryly with regard to the processing of applications. Just briefly, so you have an example: Of 3,400 applications, 1,795 were already granted positive approval. This is transparent and accessible on the website. A volume of 1.7 million euros has already been paid. I know it's not just about the Social Security Fund and social security funds, it's also about securing the free scene in the future. It is about those who work project-oriented, and it is also about securing the institutions that work in the semiprofessional field, especially in the federal states, where volunteers also work together with professional artists. There's a lot of commitment in the future. The EUR 700 million fund for NPOs – EUR 700 million will be made available to the institutions – can also help. Please do not forget the topic of pension claims by artists! A third area also offers an opportunity for us: to start an art and culture strategy with all parliamentary groups, with all stakeholders, especially the federal states, together with all the institutions and to take advantage of this opportunity for the future. The command of the hour, I believe, is important: that freedom is developed together in creativity, so that we come to a point where art is perceived as a basic human need and not just a leisure work, a consumer goods, a product is downgraded. Ladies and gentlemen, we are building on a country of free art and culture, and we are trying to find a common way there! A final sentence on honourable Member Drozda: The short work has always been started for three months, with an extension option, and it is not foreseeable whether this short work should not be continued. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drozda.]] We have also seen this in the past: Increases from EUR 400 million to over EUR 10 billion, to EUR 12 billion. I would like to say this briefly: It's not foreseeable. There you have to probe and improve every day. For comparison today with Germany's supplementary budget of 27. March: Yes, ladies and gentlemen, believe that they were in Germany on 27 July. On March 11, 112 billion euros were decided today, two months later, still up-to-date? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drozda.]] They have the same problem, the same challenges. We will deal with them together in Europe and Austria, and Germany will be at the front. For the artists, there is now the security to start in summer in an art and cultural summer. Let's support them! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e22991	Mrs Katharina Kucharovich. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e23016	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! I would like to say a word about Colleagues Reifenberger: No one's holding a Secretary of State! – How disrespectful has this statement actually been? I really ask you to take this back and apologise for it! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] Now to the cultural budget: Austria, oh, Austria, what kind of cultural nation are you? Isn't it? Estimated Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a look back at the last months, and let's see what we've experienced and what these months have shown us: For months artists, all in the art and culture scene, have been hanging in the air. For months! Talks with the artists were simply refused by the Republic for a long time. This is disappointing, and this is insanely embarrassing for Austria, which is called a cultural nation, especially because the current finance minister Blümel had something to do with culture at some point. You hardly believe it, but he was Minister of Culture. With permission: He has always ignored the artists. He didn't touch a finger, and he didn't go into anything. It is very embarrassing what has gone off the side of the Minister for Finance. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Shetty.]] So, a cultural nation? – I think for this government: not! But now to the figures in the budget: 466 million euros are set for art and culture in 2020, 466 million euros, in which no measures are shown to deal with the Covid-19 crisis, which does not outline visions and which does not include a plan to protect artists from poverty. Dear colleagues and colleagues of the Greens, I know that it is really your concern to finally establish Fair Pay for artists. But I ask you the question: Where do we find these measures in the budget? Where do those concerned find real fair pay measures in your budget? – Nowhere, honestly: nowhere! They all know from the study “The social situation of the artists in Austria”, a study that has been renewed and whose update has been on the table for two years and with which nothing actually happens, that artists in particular are insanely often and much more intensely affected by poverty than any other industry. These are mostly those who are not just in front of the curtain and who are not among the cultural promis. But these are many who do a lot for the scene and very much contribute to our being a cultural nation, and they are often women – women who are still fighting for their standing in the arts and culture sector. I sincerely ask you, Mr Vice-Chancellor: What exactly does Your budget for women? Now please don't tell me: Women's promotion in the film. With your permission, that would be a beauty with foreign feathers, because that happened among SPÖ ministers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But let me come back to the drama of non-support in the Covid-19 crisis – drama because it is about personal existence! The emergency aid, whether 500 euros or a doubling to 1,000 euros, has not yet been paid out, but many people are waiting for it – and honestly this is just a drop on the hot stone, of which no one can live, but that is an immediate measure that really needs it. From your side – from the Vice-Chancellor, the Minister of Finance – always come only announcements, and an announcement was postponed each time by the next announcement. For weeks, nothing has happened openly until the uprising of the artists was then insanely large. State Secretary Lunacek has made mistakes, and she has suffered the consequences, but the Minister of Finance has not touched a finger, nor has you, Mr Vice-Chancellor. We want concrete measures. It urgently needs the necessary rescue shield, an urgent cultural billion. I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Finally, we agree and together we save Austria's cultural nation! Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[19:31]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e23171	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. The honourable Member is now speaking. Martin Engelberg. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e23198	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen. Apart from day-to-day policy, a word of appreciation from me; I think it is also necessary that we, as representatives of the people, issue such a statement. Inspire art and culture. Art and culture make us think. Art and culture bring color to life. Art and culture help us to develop further. Art and culture always bring us new joy and enrich friendships. Art and culture create understanding, provide conversational material. Culture is innovation and also a major economic factor. Art and culture offer fascination and enthusiasm. Art and culture create diversity in life, create new ones. Art and culture are also a hanging sign. For the global importance of Austria, art and culture are an essential factor, if not the essential factor. With this budget, we want to create the basis for maintaining and further raising the international level in the coming decades, creating the best possible framework conditions for those working in art and culture – from the free scene to the great cultural institutions. We want to develop the social security of those who work in art and culture, implement fair pay, improve funding and create more transparency. We want to contribute to this because we appreciate the value of art and culture infinitely. Thank you at this point for the wonderful enrichment they give us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e23232	Mr Hermann Brückl has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e23253	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! The impact of the Corona crisis also entails a completely new assessment of the budget for art and culture. The performance of the theatre, the museums, the artist simply makes higher funding necessary for the future, and also the loss of revenue resulting from the complete closure of the Bundestheater and the Bundesmuseen – according to the budget service – is not yet estimated. As far as the burden of this already difficult financial situation in the arts and culture sector is concerned is concerned, one additional difficulty is that there is a lack of clear and structured management on the part of policy-makers. With the resignation of Secretary of State Ulrike Lunacek, not only did their failure in office become apparent, but the failure of the entire black and green government became apparent. In the “standard” – I can quote it – it was a few days ago to read: “The confidence of the cultural scene, which was not given from the beginning, has been completely eroded according to its” – that is, to Lunacek’s – “unhappiness, but also appearances marked by errors and pans.” It goes on to say to the government: “The political ties with the turquoise-green government team weighed down more than the interests of those responsible for Lunacek.” And then the sentence: “Lunacek’s superior, Vice-chanc Werner Kogler, obviously didn’t care about the art and cultural agendas.” Just as much as this government may be no matter the interests of the Austrians, it may not care about the interests of artists and cultural artists. There are, of course, the hardening funds, and last week, the then Secretary of State Lunacek said it was up to 11. On May 6, 630 applications were submitted, but how much the sum of the amounts paid could not be said. Your answer to this was just: That's where you need to ask the Chamber of Commerce. It also shows once again that the help and support that people in our country now need is disappearing in the bureaucratic jug of the government and no one really has an overview of the economically sad situation in our country. Only one thing is certain: Over the past two months, support and assistance have been lacking. I can refer to the example of Bavaria: In Bavaria, artists and cultural workers receive 1 000 euros per month as support. In Switzerland a rescue shield has been stretched over the cultural scene at all. There, 280 million francs were made available for the arts and culture sector in a first tranche. What it needs now is support. It is important to provide help, to build confidence, and to give security. This also includes creating decent working conditions for the staff in the cultural institutions. It cannot be said that in 2020 there are still workers in the Federal Museums and the National Library who do not have a collective agreement. In this sense, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Finally, a sentence, because the scene and the urban culture were mentioned: Please do not forget that art and culture also include our musicians in the bubble music chapels, that this also concerns the unknown artists, the writers, the children's book authors in the country as well as in the city, that this concerns our costume clubs, our home houses and all those people who work daily to preserve our folk culture! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[19:38]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e23387	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. It is now possible to speak. Dr. Rudolf Taschner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e23417	Mr President. High house! Fraglos is talking about money when it comes to art and culture. No one knew this better than the Medici who were moneymen in Florence of the Renaissance – but much more important was that they knew equally well about art and culture and discovered exactly those who were supposed to promote it. That is a point I would like to address here today. Mrs Kucharovich spoke about the need to save the art and culture country of Austria. I don't want to say it that pathetic. But in the 75 years of the Second Republic in Austria there were times that were really golden moments of cultural promotion. For example, I think of Monsignor Otto Wall, who, in his environment, for example – she was called one of many – promoted Ingeborg Bachmann. For example, I think of Jörg Mauthe and his wonderful imitator Helmut Zilk, among whom Peymann and above all Thomas Bernhard were promoted. Bachmann and Bernhard, these were artists far from the spirit of time. The point is that one does not redouble the spirit of time, but really recognizes those to whom it comes. That will then be the salvation of the cultural country, if I may say so, that will actually represent the meaning of culture. Col. Engelberg has found out why we enjoy art and culture, but it is essentially the point that art and culture stand for themselves, of course, that is never normal and there will never be an earlier or later normality, as Mrs. Blimlinger correctly said. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Here in this hall we look at these pictures. That was also a crisis at the time, a small crisis. The Hofburg has burned, and suddenly a minister of the economy, who was in fact far away from any contemporary hemisphere, told Josef Mikl: You paint these pictures here! And these pictures save us from some difficult speeches. Mr Matznetter and Mrs Belakovich will certainly take this to heart. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We look at these pictures here and we can endure this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Culture and the Secretary of State for Culture will not be measured by whether they are rehearsing the spirit of time, but will be measured by whether they are called in a breath with Zilk, with Mauthe, with Otto Wall.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e23463	Mrs Mag. Ruth Becher. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e23488	Mr President. Mr. Ministers! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, culture is a great asset, culture stimulates us to think. It gives us identity, awakens emotions and is an important measure of democracy and freedom. With regard to a cultural establishment, as it meets Austria and the cultural capital of Vienna, of course, it also requires high transparency and funding, which makes the cultural business planable and questionable. This concerns especially the cultural creators, who create culture as single fighters and single fighters, as well as large opera houses and acting houses. From this point of view, the draft budget should also be considered and questioned. This design not only appears in detail as not feasible, but it also fails in the whole. It is essentially a continuation of old numbers without the Try to predict anything. If the Minister of Finance does not make the effort – which would be his task – then how should the economically responsible in the cultural enterprises gain planning security? In addition, the question arises whether this intentional presentation of false figures is in conformity with the constitution at all; the SPÖ is currently examining this. The second part of this draft is a shadow budget, a billion heavy pot that is intended for the suspension of the crisis. This is very, very opaque. While the government announced yesterday the timetable for the cultural establishment, there remains a very large number of issues regarding the coverage of lost revenue. In the 2018/19 season, the Bundestheater, which is very healthy in itself, had over 1.35 million visitors – it speaks, I think, for itself, as they are assumed – and the revenues of the entire Bundestheater Group amounted to 81.5 million euros in the 2018/19 season. Now there will be a corresponding hole and it now needs a confession to carry this load as well. What it means to confess to culture can be seen at the Federal Capital, at the cultural capital Vienna, which in 2019, when no corona crisis existed, increased the cultural budget by more than 10 percent and maintained a very solidaric relationship with the cultural workers during the crisis and also increased the work grants for the artists. Until yesterday, the Federal Government has watched many existences in the field of art and culture be endangered and, in part, ruined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e23527	Mr Mag, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats, Democrats, Democrats) and European Democrats, spoke on behalf of the Group of the Werner Koglerzu word reported. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e23551	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I assume that on Friday morning, on the occasion of the presentation of the new Secretary of State here in the House, we will have the opportunity to debate art and culture in principle; today more about the budget and the figures. Of course, the next quote is not mine either, but in the last few days it has always happened, because we want to cover even the huge holes and gaps that arise, that sometimes gets forgotten – and I think, it has also said to the Federal President, who has called it back – that art and culture are a value in itself. – If that is the case, however, it should not be deceiving that the material basis must be there, of course. This was almost a very inspiring philosophical contribution by Mr Taschner; this Quasi equipment must then lead exactly to the fact that the unconventional, the non-plannable, which does not have to be put together and made available at the time when it comes. [[Abg. Tachner nodded.]] I do not know if one has to resort to the Medici, but of course they have the advantage that they have already done so differently than other absoluteist rulers, because they have, so to speak, emerged in the development of the city state of Florence, and for the first time, I believe, in a great way also the relationship of economy and culture and not only of power and culture, at least of money and culture. They also played an important role in developing the money system as it is today. But I don't want to take this to the point of furthering my own philosophy, but I just want to say so much that you should not just leave it with the numbers. But now, as it is, of course, about these – as I always say – impressions and cuts, some areas are particularly hard hit, especially in the financial field. I am right for all those who point out that, of course, these budget figures need to be reworked properly, that is not a question at all. Mr Drozda pointed out that this is necessary in several areas. I would go that far, too, because in his interview on Sunday’s “Hohes Haus” he almost said more – Hohes Haus, that’s right here anyway – and I would give it a long way. The question is just how and how fast we do it. You're right about that. I recognize here a similar, phase-by-phase, equal analysis of the needs. Of course, this kind of access is five times better to me than that of Mr Reifenberger, since Mrs Kucharovich has already pointed out that a State Secretary should not necessarily qualify as he did. - But be it. It also doesn't help to get Pippi's long-stromps into play here, because I don't know where this comparison is going again. You just pretended that this whole epidemic had just been taken as an occasion to do something stupid, and I would like to reject it, even from the government bank. The reference to Pippi Langstrumff does not help either. She wouldn't have liked the nonsense, by the way, that she would have made a funny revenge for you. We don't know her exactly. But now to the points that have been mentioned here and to how I would classify that myself. Let's get to the budget in front of Corona! There is at least there – anyway! – an increase of quite exactly 11 million euros, I think Mr Blimlinger has responded a little. Now you can say that's wrong, too little or even the continuation of the existence – I don't know. It has been a long time since, I believe, social-democratic manuscript was inside. In his short time as Minister of Culture, the Minister of Finance who is now in criticism here could not have done as much as you might want to do here. So there is something going on with social-democratic handwriting, and from the social-democratic side there has also been some clues about it – and, I think, rightly – that some good is contained in the structure of the cultural budget. So I perceive this quite differently. I hope I can express this, and I really believe that there really must be much to be done now, namely to put it on the budget, which has not yet been corrected. There too, however, one can see that valorization has not been done so badly there or there. If you look at it, you'll see that at the free scene is ultimately a plus of 2 million euros inside. This is a step in the direction of a decent valorization, because this goes far beyond that, and it is still working on more here. Yeah, then I'd prefer this: When we look at the free scene, this leads me to come to the free-creators too, because in this area there is often a greater number of fates to be found individually. Yes, it will be necessary to equip the freelance artists with their own support fund, best with the donation of compensations over six months each, because it takes so long – even here this thought – and this quickly. I think we are thinking in the same direction, and I am also confident that I will soon realize or negotiate this. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But it wasn't that bad at this point now, and with these 2 million euros, the fair pay idea would be the same – we want to dive, and we still do. I should also like to refer to the development of the gender distribution of funding. This is not my merit now, but several parties, I think, are involved. About 15 years ago, the funding looked that way, if we can cover it specifically, and we can do much better after the reforms, that the proportion of women in the use of the funding is 40 percent. For a few years, at least since 2018, this share is significantly more than 50 percent. It's not that bad. I don't need to adorn myself with these feathers, whoever deserves the honor for this development, but everything is obviously not that bad. That is what I wanted to say, and we want to continue working in this direction. I will stick to the questions that have come through. Of course, I asked myself about the Wifo study. In fact, there is a draft once, and it is obviously not uncommon that a final version will then be available after a final text – and be You are sure that I am thinking at least that we are not only making this study available to you, of course, but of publishing it at all. Thank you for the note. So that's going to be and that's not going to take too long, I just got my letters. But now to the figures that have been asked here, which of course one needs to consider even further decently. I can't tell you how high they are, I can only tell you what it takes if we differentiate it. First of all, we have – on this we had already talked both in the Committee on Budgets and in the Committee on Culture – the large cultural institutions, which are partly returning to ourselves, of course also to other local authorities. In the course of the financial compensatory discussions, the federal states will eventually also stand with us and say: Yes, hey, hello, we also want to bring our institutions, whether this is in Salzburg or in Graz, everywhere, well over the rounds and cover the gaps! They don't have that kind of thing either. We have these debates, and I can always say, and now comes – sorry for that – financial policy argument: As long as, and this will be even longer, the Republic can take up by 0 percent of the money, in truth, say bonding, it must be possible that everything it takes also means everything it takes, for several areas. I've always noticed the distrust that's going to happen. Perhaps that's why it's not always going to shake everything out overnight, but yes, that's the claim and the approach. This would also mean that our government debt of 68.70 percent will rise again by 20 percent. If we pay 0 percent for it, we'll be through the rounds for years. Otherwise you'd have to ask me: What's the matter with that? He thinks we can print money unlimited!, or whatever. - We don't do that at all. That's why it's coming. As long as this is so and not everywhere immediately the cuts in all areas of life, even in economic and social areas – for which I am of course not to have, we are always discussing this separately – this will also have to be applied to the arts and culture sector – and only right when Austria is rightly a cultural nation – that we keep this course. Not only am I here now at a value in itself, but I am also there that I say that this also has enormous economic impact. You have to see that in the cycle. In fact, as honourable Member Drozda said, the fact is that, of course, large institutions, especially in Vienna, are also dependent on tourism that is no longer always so beloved. I just can't predict it exactly. I did not fully understand whether you already have more precise numbers, but who knows now how tourism will develop 2023/2024, I congratulate him again. But there will be a break-in, and indeed it is when we look at the museum landscape that those who have a high level of self-sufficiency are now most affected precisely for the reason. We've exchanged about this too. That is to say, after a bridging aid, it will actually be necessary to define, even because of the plannedness, the further aid – all of them have nothing to blame – then it is clear – about the loss of revenue and not only about cost replacements. This cannot be different because none of these institutions are focused on profit. That's a logic. I can only express here the thought of how we can approach it and agree to it, and as long as it is so that we want to take all the areas of life, art and culture will be equally at the front. We'll probably talk about it even more often. The second area is private or non-profit institutions. We have often had the opportunity to talk about this newly created fund, so I do not stop now. I have already announced that there will certainly be something for the free-lancers who will be individually concerned. With this, I think, I have at least taken in at least everything that is acute, and I hope and expect that on Friday we will be able to resume an appropriate art and culture debate and perhaps not only talk about numbers. The famous question, because it was a subject before, I had not taken it in, namely, with regard to the blockage plans, as it is now always called; of course, I can also answer them. I also see, when we look at the international comparison, that Austria, with what was just presented yesterday and now every two weeks, is being refined, just toward further opening and easing, as long as the health policy figures are developing so well – much better then it is not going to happen anymore; it is good that the colleague is there – really among the first, is in a front position. I try to balance this all the time, that is not the same in every country – in the Federal Republic of Germany the whole thing is very strong also federal affairs – but I find almost no region and no state that is on the move in all these areas as fast as we are. It is clear that this is very important for large houses, theatres, operas and so on; I also met with Mr. Kušej. All this is clear to me, which is why it has been clarified with the samples for a long time, but they can do it now, but need a security for the months of September, October, to continue. Again: Until recently and to this day it is so, I believe that in the Elbphilharmonie only quite do not know how it looks in autumn, and those in the Milan Scala do not, or much less, for obvious tragic reasons. With all the mutual strength that is supposed to exist, I'm pleading for a little bit of comparison, not because it makes us so much safer – it's insecure everywhere – but because it throws at least one light on it and shows that it's not that simple. As an oppositionist, as a member of the opposition, I have always allowed myself to stand on the floor of the speaker. But I have often also said that it is a lot good in Austria. And I would also like to have this differentiated debate. However, as an opposition, you are of course invited to do your job very well.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e23606	Mr Johann Höfinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e23630	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I only have 2 minutes of speaking time available, where you can only strip the topics off the edge. Perhaps a word on the general discussion that has already been made about this budget: It was spoken of by a fake budget, by my previous speaker Ruth Becher just about a shadow budget and much more. Dear friends of the opposition, you know that this budget was tied in these days under the most difficult conditions and with the involvement of all available parameters, with the involvement of all experts. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] It is constantly calculated, and that is why it is absolutely essential if you stand here and then there is something like that of yourself. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Ernst-Dziedzic.]] [[Interlocutory calls by Members Kassinger, Loacker and Vogl.]] It has already been mentioned today, Austria is a cultural nation. We are very proud of it. The Austrian carries the art and culture scene with passion. She has a lot of facets: from the large houses here in Vienna to the small lifts throughout the country, carried by many laymen, by many professionals, by many who are in different areas every day with heart, brain and commitment to preserve this cultural life, which in reality opens up a colorful world to us. – Thank you very much for this, because we know that the art and culture scene is also economically a great, important factor and a great employer for people on stage, for people on stage, on stage, in front of the stage and behind the stage. These people have been more than required in recent months, and I therefore think that the approach we have put in this budget is good. As the vice chancellor has done, the screws are constantly turned. They know that every day new insights are coming into the way the economy will develop. And I think in this symbiosis we should also look at this cultural budget. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e23676	Next speaker is Member Dr. Harald Türk. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e23700	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! After eleven weeks of corona-related lockdown, shutdown, we are now on the way to normalization. Today I am constantly hearing from Turquoise and Green, how good we are, how good we have supposedly done it. The truth is that there are almost 600,000 unemployed people, 1.1 million people in short-term employment, and tens of thousands of SMEs and even more individuals are at the end of their forces. In my opinion, turquoise and green put their heads in the sand when it comes to these many, many people. We are now discussing culture and art, an area in which there are 300,000 people affected. Many of them are now without income in the third month. Artists have become bitters because you have removed the epidemic law from the monarchy – a proven law for disasters – with your black and green majority. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Federal Chancellor ignores the culture, the Minister of Finance ignores the culture, the responsible vice chancellor ignores the artists, the State Secretary has resigned. - That's the human intermediate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] The artists, the artists, are wondering how it continues. When can you Are you planning again? Actions, income, investments? – On the contrary: Many have since ended up in a debt trap. Many have made investments before the season and there is no revenue. And yes, that's where the fear reigns. It governs the fear of many, not only those who create culture. The fear reigns because it was also startled. The Federal Chancellor has become famous for the statement that 100,000 will die and that everyone will know someone who has paid for it. That's what got scared. That Luke's resetarits there is the collar, that he lays down the good manners, for that I understand, for that I have human understanding. Resetarits spoke of the government's disrespect for a whole industry, and he was angry and angry. This fright-making does not work anymore, however, Mr. Bundeskanzler. If all people notice what was there in fear-making, unnecessary fear-making behind it, then your survey values, Mr. Federal Chancellor, will also experience a lockdown, and that is good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e23757	Mrs Irene Neumann-Hartberger has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e23782	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are debating today a budget estimate that has never been achieved in this form in Austria. Despite the many criticisms, I am proud to be allowed to do so in a country like Austria, in a country where people's health is first and foremost. To blame the Federal Government and above all the Minister of Finance for inactivity is actually incredible and definitely not justified. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am glad to live in a country in which such a large, diverse and comprehensive aid package has been established and implemented. This definitely does not happen by itself, but requires the effort of many. Due to the exceptional situation in the course of the Covid-19 crisis, for which there has been no comparable experience and solutions in the drawer, gradual adaptations, improvements and extensions of the aid and action package are logical and welcome. The fact that a budget proposal, which was completed shortly before the crisis, with all its complexity due to the current situation and the constantly changing budgetary figures, cannot be adjusted daily, even in a daily manner, is clearly understandable to me. The changes made by the Covid-19 Pandemic are enormous in our economic, social and also cultural life. Many are only now aware of how enriching and, of course, a functioning event culture is in our society. This whole sector with all its range of different event formats in the fields of art and culture, sport, scientific congresses and conferences, festivals and events and, not to forget, our lively association stood still. All of this has to be fully put back on its feet, because that is exactly what contributes to a life- and loving Austria. The command of the hour is to correct the Covid-19 effects and also to provide maximum support in this area. In the budget there are not reductions in the arts and culture sector, but a 2 percent reduction, 11 million Euro, planned. This is correct and important and a solid basis, which from my point of view it should also be appreciated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e23827	Next speaker: Mr Hans Stefan Hintner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e23851	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! One thing before: Given a global pandemic, I am glad that we could talk about so many topics, just not more than hundreds of thousands of corona infected or thousands of deaths in Austria. I think that the Federal Government has done everything right in the sense of health. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] So we come to the topic of culture now. Unfortunately, we know that unfortunately countless events had to be cancelled for various reasons, from various motives. By the example of my home town of Mödling, I can tell you that we will have a super-functioning theatre summer. Unfortunately, we had to cancel two of the four productions so far, but two are absolutely feasible due to the new possibilities, and these are, on the one hand, the theatre in the bunker of Professor Bruno Max and, on the other hand, in the Teatro Norberto Bertassi’s “Tom Sawyer and Huckleberry Finn”. And also the Mödlinger Dollentheater will be starting from 29. In May, the operation was resumed. The coverage of the productions in the city of Mödling, also of the theatre – and we are the only city performing a city theatre with seven premieres – is between 10 and 15 percent, which the tickets arrive, and that with seven premieres a year. This means that the economic considerations, how many tickets are sold at all, are more subordinate, although we are pleased that we can also report charges between 80 and 100 percent. What it's all about is playing. It's about taking the opportunity to do everything possible – yes, even with more financial effort, yes, even with more organizational effort. In this particular time, we need makers and courageous people who allow art and culture within the framework of the requirements. Some things can be done with exhilaration of the possibilities. Let us actively help to take advantage of the opportunities! It is not just about the financial charges, but about the elixir of art and culture, about the appearance, the applause, the discussion with the audience. If it is said that time has its art, then it must now also be called, art has its freedom – and people who also allow the possibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e23891	There is now no mention of this. The discussions on this subject have thus ended. [[20:12:43]] UG 12: Externals
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e23912	We are now entering Division 12: Outwards. Mrs Petra Bayr has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e23936	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Covid-19, we're going to get under control globally or we're not going to get it into the Get hold of it. – This sentence is not mine, but I think very many see it that way. We have seen relatively terrifying figures from the so-called Global South, while Africa, due to the demographics and the population structure of relatively many young people, feels quite good about thanking God, but in Latin America and also in Southeast Asia, there are real problems with the virus. The health systems in many countries are just ahead of the collapse. Many protective measures such as home office, home schooling, keeping space distance, hand washing that is easy with us are not feasible in countries where there is simply no place, because everyone lives close to dense. If there isn't even water to drink, you can't wash your hands either. So there are very different needs, quite different needs, and I think it is absolutely appropriate and important that we as Austria do something specifically there, and therefore I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The strengths of local health systems now do not mean one-off drug donation or anything else, but really means investment in infrastructure, in the health infrastructure, which is very important. We know from the budget deliberations of last week that in the context of Covid by Austria already EUR 9.9 million has been spent, but if you look at almost half of this, namely EUR 4.1 million, the money that chancellors promised shortly at the beginning of March to double the donations for neighbors in need for the humanitarian crisis in Syria – there was no mention of Corona – then this is already a bit of a chuzpe, honestly, to mash this money twice, once as a doubling of the donations for neighbours in need and once as a corona aid. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's more than time. There are moderate increases both for the Austrian Development Agency and for the foreign disaster fund for humanitarian aid, but the problem remains structural: These funds are discretionary expenditure, and as soon as there is a burning in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hut, the Minister has the opportunity to take exactly these funds, these expenditure resources, and to stop other holes with them. Although it may already be that this is not going to happen this year, I am very afraid that this will happen in the next budgets. I am very afraid that this budget will be a tool and that this problem with discretion expenditure will become even worse than it was always. My urgent appeal for many years: It must finally be seen that the bilateral and multilateral funds for development cooperation are also legally secured, as is the case with the international financial institutions, for example, where it is not so easy to transform the funds elsewhere. That would be in your mind, too, if development cooperation is important to you. Maybe you can give yourself a back, that you make a quality jump there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[20:16]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e24080	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Reinhold Lopatka. I must add that the motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and under negotiation. Please, Mr Lopatka.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e24110	Mr President. Foreign Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! At the late hour of foreign policy: The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has four major tasks to perform and has a very small budget for these four major tasks. The first and most important task is to best represent the interests of Austria in Europe and in the world. Second major task: Vienna and thus Austria as their headquarters. Today we had a conversation with the UN's chief officer here in Vienna, Director General Ghada Fathi Waly. The UN feels very comfortable here, but we also need to do something to ensure that Vienna remains an important location. The third task – a point that has now come to a close focus – is: Austrians help wherever they may be stranded in this world. And a fourth point, addressed by my previous speaker, is that Austria is making a credible contribution when it comes to combating poverty when it comes to contributing to strengthening peace and security on this planet. 500 million euros are available for this, which is 0.6 percent of the total budget; really not much. That is why I must say that I absolutely did not understand the FPÖ in the Committee on Budgets when it was called for cuts. [[Abg. Kassinger: I'll explain it!]] Every cent in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is well-designed, ladies and gentlemen, and I also say that this is not an elaborate budget available. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am pleased that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been able to deliver such achievements in dealing with this corona crisis. Twelve million accesses have been made, which is already a huge number. Consular care has worked. Up to 50,000 calls a day; all of this has to be done once. There are then 39 repatriation flights, 7 500 people have been brought back – not only Austrians, 1 500 of them have also been EU citizens. A second area which I would like to address, which has already been discussed by the President of Social Democracy, is our relationship with the European Union. The pandemic has already shown, ladies and gentlemen, that the Member States are still the key players when it comes to quickly resolving whether the necessary starting restrictions, border controls, rapid measures in the medical field or protection obligations have been implemented quickly in such a crisis situation. This could not have been dealt with at European level, and the national states have done so very well. If you say this, then you are not against European integration, not at all, and what we are doing here is not a “national self-force”, as the last SPÖ chancellor called it today. No, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a “national self-force”, but it is a concrete help for people directly on the ground, from Bregenz to Eisenstadt. Yes, that is to be solved regionally, that is to be solved by the national states – and yet one can be a good European, I would like to say that very clearly. This is not a contradiction, but that is, I believe, the very essential thing we need to see here. A second point: In the financial crisis, we already had the discussion about how to deal with the tax money. Yes, we need – and the European Union lives on it – solidarity, but this must not be a one-way road, from the donors to those who need our help. And if we help here, first and foremost, we should be concerned that the individual responsibility remains with the respective countries. Mrs. President Rendi-Wagner, I believe that the Italian economy – you have referred to it today – is primarily the Italian government, and not the Austrian government, in order to say this directly. They have to look, and this is a very lavish government that they carry out their homework, then they deserve our help, and it may not always come from somewhere immediately the call for money. We have not found the ATMs that are being filled from somewhere above, and we are also lawyers of our taxpayers, I have to say this right here at the budget debate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore: Help yes, but limited and, if possible, in a form in which you can see something again of the money you give, if it is possible. The future of the European Union will be in a good interaction between the Member States and the Commission, but also with civil society. It's about playing no one against another. What we need after the crisis, however, are again strong national states that bring this European Union back to the old strength as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e24161	The next speaker is Mr MMMag. Dr. Axel Kassinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e24185	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, my previous speaker, Mr Lopatka, has needed many fine words, including from the national states, and has said that solidarity within the European Union must not be a one-way street. – I can actually sign that. Solidarity is something of a reciprocity, and I believe it is also one of the major problems facing the European Union that many people feel this solidarity is just a forced solidarity and a one-way road. Mr Lopatka, if at the same time you see yourself as a lawyer for the Austrian taxpayer, I am very, very excited about how your party and how the Federal Chancellor will respond to Mrs Merkel's proposal and Mr Macron's proposal, namely to empower the European Commission to include EUR 500 billion in the financial markets and then to have the allocation of funds to help. We know the Member States on this issue, in particular Italy, Spain, Greece and so on, and then there are the four that are economical. The economy of these four does not appear to be questioning this borrowing by the European Commission of 500 billion, that is 500 000 million – that is, the thousand times the budget that the BMEIA has – but rather the fact that they say in detail: But we do not want that to be lost grants, but that should only be loans! – So this is not particularly credible now. The position of the Freedom Party on this is quite clear: We do not want the European Commission to take up financial resources and debt, so to speak, on the back door of the Corona crisis, for which we all have to be held, to an incredible extent – as has been said, the thousand-fold of the BMEIA budget. We do not want this, and we will observe the Federal Government very closely and see how it responds to this proposal by Macron and Merkel. Mr Lopatka, unfortunately you have not taken good care of the Committee, because we have considered this differently. You have already said that the BMEIA has a budget of 500 million euros, and it must be clear in times of the Corona crisis that we now have a new situation. We liberals are not of the opinion that we are now doing everything we want to do, we are not of the opinion that the money has now been abolished, but that in certain areas, in the sense of the Austrians, it is in need, the unemployed, the entrepreneurs, in particular the Austrians. Small businessmen, our commitment is also to look for areas in which some euro will not be spent in this year of crisis and perhaps next year. This is the subject when we talk about BMEIA. I do not mean the central office, so Vienna, and Vienna as a location for international organizations. I also do not expressly mean the representations of Austria abroad, the embassies and ambassadors of Austria abroad. However, I am very sure that the ADA and I mean the contributions that we have been paying more or less on behalf of international organisations for years now. It must be legitimate to look at this more closely and say, this year, next year, we will not have 20 percent increases – that is the case with the ADA – but rather tighten the belt when spending the money, because we really need every euro in our own country, but as I said, the money is obviously abolished, “cost what it wants”. This is the peuniary background, and on the content of the background – Mr Bayr has already said it –: I am missing the principle of targeted development cooperation, which is postulated in the government programme; I do not really see that. I see punctual help, a country there, a country there, a biterl something there, a biterl something there, then holes are stuffed, as has already been said, it's a flickering squirrel. One should also make the effort and work out a concentrated, targeted development aid, which we absolutely do not reject, but it must be allowed to question qualitatively, and it must also be allowed to question quantitatively, especially in such times of crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e24249	Mrs Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e24274	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. We have already debated in detail today – on the first day – the impact of the current crisis on the budget, together with its internal political effects, and I am very pleased that we are now also coming to the cross-border issues, because we know – this has led us to this crisis – that we can only find answers to the crises through European and international cooperation – not only to pandemics, but also to the climate crisis, poverty, migration policy. In order for us to be strengthened by this crisis, even if you have a different opinion here, it is no less necessary of this solidarity, of this cooperation and of this support from Austria to other countries, for example also important international organisations, but more. Mr Lopatka has already mentioned that Austria is an important country of residence and not only is it offered in Vienna to provide conference rooms, but Austria always provides its international know-how. We know that not only the UN, the OSCE and the EU Fundamental Rights Agency in Austria have a seat, but Austria has always been a mediator between historical responsibility and responsibility for a sustainable future because of its situation in Europe. The achievements of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have also been a short issue today, namely in relation to this cross-border teamwork, which was about to return from 29 states, I think to Austria from five continents to the 8,000 people. We know that this would not have been possible without global interaction. This central role in an active foreign and peace policy must naturally be reflected in the budget. Of course, in order to restore Austria to a strong voice in the world, it is also important to strengthen effective multilateralism and not to weaken it further. From our point of view, this includes the development of a multi-annual human rights strategy, as well as the strengthening of democracy and the rule of law, not only in Austria, but also in Europe, especially in those countries where they come under the wheels. I am therefore very pleased that, for the Greens, these very important ideas of an external policy committed to global cooperation in the current budget, with a substantial increase in the budget, for example for the foreign disaster fund or for development aid, have found their precipitation. The ADA has also succeeded in reversing long-term demands into concrete figures. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Our goal is also to promote Austria's historical role as an international mediator, which is why we have enshrined in the budget that Austria will be committed to civil conflict resolution and prevention worldwide. For example, civil peace services play an essential role, as does the development of a comprehensive strategy for legal, safe and orderly migration. Austria will also be committed to a sustainable international partnership when it comes to creating life prospects for those concerned on the ground in an environment of social and political stability. Yes, that's not easy, but that's our responsibility, and we're in favour of increasing the funds instead of shortening them. The FPÖ should know what consequences it has if we do not. You may be happy then because you can instrumentalize this for your policy, but the person concerned does not do so at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We continue to work on all of this, and that requires not only a confession, but of course also a budget. With all the praise for the efforts on international stage mentioned above, I must also note that the budget in the field of external affairs is quite small in the international comparison. Unfortunately, in recent years, the spasm has been used over and over again in this area, and we have to get out of this spasm road – and I am glad when you nod, Mr Lopatka. The external sector needs budget, security is needed in order to be able to do this important international work. We know that a saving course in this area leads to the fact that, especially among international organisations working in important areas such as refugee aid, women's rights, human rights and environmental protection, the consequences in the event of failures fall entirely directly to all other countries. In this sense: International cooperation is essential, that is clear. In my view, budgetary security of international work is a signpost on the way to common solutions of the greatest crises of our time, some of which are currently facing us. We will all agree, perhaps with the exception of the Freedom Party: This is something to be used in a cross-party way. Austria must rely on international cooperation instead of national isolation and make it the strongest currency. This commitment not only pays off and strengthens not only the interests of Austria, but also our solutions have more far-reaching views. It is precisely this far-reaching view that I miss very often when it comes to foreign policy debates. It is therefore so important that we anchor precisely this international support in the budget as well as the prospect that there will be important projects in this area. – In this sense, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e24349	Dr Helmut Brandstätter is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e24373	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! If you follow the international media and talk to diplomats at home and abroad, it is clear that after this pandemic the world will be reorganised. I know that this also involves a lot of Austrian diplomats. We have excellent people in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I would like to say that at this point. As a journalist, I have always felt very well cared for by the outside offices; just as on my last trip to Tirana, which I was allowed to do before the lockdown – I am very grateful to the Ambassador Steiner there for the help – it is noticed that the people who already have something on it internationally. Thank you very much. Now let's see what's going to happen after this pandemic: What is going on from America, we don't know because we don't know how the elections will go out there. As far as Russia is concerned, we see at the moment a weakness of the President, of course he suffers from falling energy prices, and an unsafe Russia is always very difficult for us. When we look at China, we recognize the reverse picture, a state that becomes stronger and more powerful and above all has a plan. Whatever we learn from China, shows that this is a powerful Communist party that has a very good plan to be again the world power number one again in 2045. Now we look very, very concerned about Hong Kong. When I look at what's going on there, I notice two things. First of all, I do not want what the Chinese are doing in Hong Kong to influence Europe. Secondly, Our British friends have resigned from the EU by noting that they will not only regain their sovereignty but will be respected worldwide. There is a treaty between the United Kingdom and China on Hong Kong which goes until 2047, and we know that the Chinese are not following it right now. We see that the importance of British people outside the EU has clearly disappeared. This leads me to the European Union. There are people who make fun of this when you quote from books, but I like reading and in these days I read a book by Hugo Portisch, which he wrote in 2011.Why in 2011? After the great financial crisis, the question was: [[keeping the book “What’s Now” by Hugo Portisch in height]] Does the EU survive? If you read through what Portuguese writes at the beginning, you realize that at the time this was a criticism of the FPÖ or others who do not take Europe so seriously. He writes: “Populists and demagogens have made the EU a hated enemy image for many people. All evil comes from Brussels.” He writes about “bureaucratic schmarotzers”, et cetera, and also that we are always asked to cash out “to save States that have gone into the EU with motivatings”. The bad thing is that sometimes when I listen to ÖVP politicians, that sounds the same. That sounds like: We do not want this debt union, we are the frugal four, in reality the greedy four who no longer want to give money to the EU. [[Abg. Kassinger: We don't want them either!]] There, ladies and gentlemen, I must say: The Italians are like we net payers. Unfortunately, the Italians have hit this crisis much more strongly. Italy – Mr Kopf knows that – is a particularly important export partner for us. Now, as if we were going through the crisis on our own and the EU does not need it, it is really not just negligent, it is negative and it is damaging our location. That is why I would ask that in the discussions we will be holding in the coming days, weeks and months – including on how the EU will develop – we see that we will benefit if there is a stronger EU. We would have benefited if our competent officials had alerted us in good time to the provision of medical material in the EU. We could have done it all together. I am convinced that we are only coming together through this crisis, and I ask that we really leave every polemic against the EU, because a polemic against the EU is a polemic against ourselves, and we do not do that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e24426	For an opinion, Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Alexander Schallenberg. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e24448	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to make a few general remarks on the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and on the situation we are all facing here – the Corona pandemic. It's just one thing very clearly ahead to clarify and clarify: This budget is by no means a fake budget, which provides the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with a very stable and reliable basis for our work over the next few months. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] With the present budget, we can ensure for 2020 that the network of representations and the headquarters can perform their tasks in the service of citizens and the economy abroad – very important topic –; that we can also remember our international commitments, which will often be forgotten, for example in contributions to international organisations; and, in particular, that the development cooperation of the Austrian Development Agency will not only be marginally strengthened, but substantially by increasing its funding by almost EUR 12 million compared with the previous year, and – this is particularly important now – international humanitarian aid will also be increased by increasing the foreign disaster fund to EUR 25 million this year. I also have to say that I am always very opposed to playing out help against each other. We don't mach help twice or triple, help is help. If we now have some water project, for example in Idlib, you can view it as a corona aid, as a perspective aid, or even as a contribution, so that people have a perspective on the ground and do not go on migration paths. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] So this is not a double mashing, but just a realistic consideration of the work we are doing. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in reality there was never a lockdown for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in fact we have been constantly in crisis management mode since the beginning of the year: first at the turn of the year by a massive attack on the cyber infrastructure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which thanks to rapid action and recognition we have been able to prevent through great efforts. This budget can not only ensure that we can vote from our own resources the additional cost of dealing with this cyber-attack of around 2 million euros, but also, much more importantly, that we have the same sum, namely 2 million euros, available to invest in the future strengthening of our IT security architecture. Now, like the entire world community, we are in the middle of a second global crisis, through the corona pandemic. Of course, this pandemic is currently dominating our actions and, of course, it also has a significant influence on our budgetary situation. From the COVID-19 crisis management fund, extraordinary funds were made available to my ministry of up to 26.3 million euros. We use these funds specifically to cover the additional costs incurred by the crisis. This naturally concerns – and that has already been mentioned – the world-wide, so far largest recovery action in the history of the ministry of all travellers from Austria, who were more or less scattered and stranded in all countries of the world at the beginning of the crisis. It has also been mentioned: 39 repatriation flights from 29 countries on five continents; more than 7,500 people were taken away; and – this is important to me – we have always worked in solidarity with this relief and recovery action. We have brought more than 1,500 people from other countries – not only EU citizens, also EEA citizens, citizens from the Western Balkans, so that was almost, if you want to, a European recovery action that we have carried out there. I must also stress that this was a logistical master achievement, in which the entire ministry, the representational authorities and the headquarters participated. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Therefore, in this context, I would like to say that in the House of Lords, perhaps there is still a very basic lesson in this crisis: The corona pandemic has made me more than clear recently that a country like Austria simply cannot abandon a strong, own foreign representation network, because if it is hard on us as in this crisis, then our embassies and consulates abroad are not luxury, but in reality the life insurance for citizens who may be in need. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of FPÖ, Greens and NEOS]] This is something we, I believe, must keep in mind, as a medium-sized state, as we call ourselves, as an export nation that earns 6 out of 10 euros on exports, namely that we have to take care of it – we can do this with this budget – that we have a network of representations to which we can draw. Building it up only when you are in the crisis is usually too late. Finally, there were our embassies in Lima, Kuala Lumpur, Canberra and Beijing, which organized this recovery action, which made it possible for the citizens to leave their hotels and quarters at all and come to the airport, even though perhaps the strictest lockdown existed locally, at the height of the crisis, to ensure that there were land permits and export permits when it came to bringing urgently needed medical material to Austria. Even in the present phase of the gradual easing, the uplifting of our economy, the gradual restoration of our travel freedom – a very important one The topic – the embassies and consulates have a very important role to play. They are the eyes and ears of the Republic who observe what other countries are doing, what may be successful elsewhere, what we could take over for ourselves, and they are the bodies that ensure that this cataract is coordinated within the European Union. That's something very important. I would therefore like to expressly use this opportunity here in the House to express my most sincere personal thanks to all the employees of my ministry for the great work in recent months. [[I would like to congratulate the ÖVP and the representatives of SPÖ, FPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I believe – and Mr Vice-Chancellor has already said this before – that we can actually be proud of how we have dealt with this crisis situation together so far. I notice this during my daily phone calls and video conferences with colleagues from all over the world, but also during my very frequent discussions with the Director-Generals of the international organizations here in Vienna. Many of them have told me again and again how happy they are that they could spend this crisis phase with their families in Austria and not elsewhere. The professional crisis management we have shown in the last two months has, and I am convinced, significantly upgraded our international position in the world and has basically also strengthened our market value as an internationally reliable location for the organisations here in Vienna. But we all know that the Corona crisis is not over and that we will still feel its effects for a long time. Especially the handling of the international aspects of the crisis will continue to be very intense, together with our neighbours – an essential point that may now have become more important in foreign policy – the active neighbourhood policy, which is now central to the resumption of recovery, and also with our European partners, as well as in the framework of multilateral cooperation or in the framework of development cooperation and humanitarian aid. I believe that the issue of how we deal with it and how foreign policy and European policy looks post-corona would be a good subject of a debate of our own, and we are already thinking very actively in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But I am confident – and it has already been mentioned before – that we will also succeed in this effort together. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e24550	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Martin Engelberg. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e24574	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! The good work especially in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not just a matter of money, but of actual work. I believe that with the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, we have two people at the head of Austrian foreign policy who continue the path of an active European and foreign policy. We can be very grateful for this and we can also be very happy that we have it there at our head. Thank you. [[Congratulations on Members of the ÖVP and Greens.]] I think we should have said the following: The EU stands for common values, freedom, democracy, the rule of law, equality, human rights, but also for prosperity and economic, social, territorial cohesion. There should be no doubt that we want to preserve and develop these achievements and our unique European life model for the future. I think that this should be said again and again, and my appeal applies, for example, to Mr Helmut Brandstätter: Please admit to each other that we are all committed to these values! Let us admit to the Foreign Minister that the Federal Chancellor, in the best of knowledge and conscience, is acting in accordance with these values! We are thus strengthening our common position! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] In positioning it is also always a very special concern to me and I am convinced that the Federal Chancellor and Foreign Minister share my view that we are not in the middle, as is often stressed or emphasized – no, I believe we are embedded in the Western community, in the midst of the Western world, in the Western community of values. This also means, of course, that we have orderly relations with powers such as Russia and China, but it is, for example, an essential element that we are committed to developing the strategic partnership with the United States. We should make such confessions and strategies independent of who is the President of the United States and whether they are elections in autumn or not. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Call the NEOS: Whoever wants to!]] A very important concern, which is also contained in the Government Declaration, is a very clear commitment to the continuation of Austria's worldwide commitment to the fight against anti-Semitism and anti-Zionism, also at European level. I would like to highlight this today, because the Iranian regime has again been in a humane and anti-Semitic way against the State of Israel in these days. I believe that if we take seriously what we are writing in the government programme, this is an occasion that we are no longer only using it in protest notes, which – we have to admit – both the Federal Chancellor and the Foreign Minister. I believe that this is the time when we must also work at European level to ensure that we now have to take effective measures in relation to the Iranian regime's behaviour towards the State of Israel. My appeal is that we realize that it is necessary to take very clear steps and not to allow again in a few months visits and encounters with representatives of the Iranian regime, where the traditional good relations between Austria and Iran are again mentioned. [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP, Greens and NEOS.]] Even if it has been said several times, it is nevertheless my concern to thank once again the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the great work they have done. From very direct perception by some cases in my circle of friends and acquaintances, I have experienced how efficiently, with what great commitment officials have organized the home of Austrian citizens. Another compliment to the Minister and the whole civil service for it! An important point that we must also take into account, and a major challenge facing the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is that, as you may remember, we have adopted a new citizenship law which grants Austrian citizenship to the descendants of Shoah survivors. This application will be possible from September 2020. This will be a major challenge, especially for embassies such as Israel, the United States, Great Britain, and South America. We need to give the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Office the full support in this respect so that we do not possibly disappoint people through long waiting times and overlong bureaucratic processes, thus destroying a very generous and well-respected gesture that we have set and set. Last, but not least, I would like to lose one word on the budget, because I am a spokesman for development cooperation, and I do not want to do so very badly. I do not think that there has been such an increase in the budget for development cooperation in times of involvement of social democracy in a government. It is not a small matter, it is at least 10 percent of the funds and the increase in the foreign disaster fund by two thirds – I say it again: [[Call at the SPÖ:There were 17 already!]] It has been increased by 66 percent! –, all these are not little things! I think that should be respected and recognized. I am also pleased that we have been able to take a step in this regard and continue to do so. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e24644	Mr Dr. Harald Türk has now been reported to the House. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e24669	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing the budget of foreign policy here in the House today. I would first like to thank you for the recovery action of Austrians at the beginning and during the Corona crisis. I think that worked very, very well. 39 flights from 29 countries – that was not so without it. Thank you very much to the staff of the Foreign Office for how well this worked. There has been a self-retaining of the Austrians, I think that was appropriate to the circumstances as well. Co-financing – partly through the European Union or bilateral – has worked very, very well. In this humanitarian area, the EU has shown itself on a good side, of which Austria has also benefited. Two guidelines have, of course, strongly influenced Austrian foreign policy – I would say, since the 1950s, 1960s –: the efforts to set up and support peace initiatives, and, of course, to always support human rights issues – earlier towards Eastern Europe and then generally – which is also enshrined in the government programme accordingly. I welcome it. However, I am little satisfied with the disparity between countries dealing with human rights issues. Here I come to Saudi Arabia; a very unpleasant story. In my opinion, the ÖVP is putting its head in the sand on Saudi Arabia. Even though the heads are rolled into the sand at the executions on holy Friday, the heads are put in the sand. [[Abg. Matznetter: Not every Friday!]] [[Abg. Fireplaces: And no more children! Progress!]] This is not to be welcomed, I do not think we can look away! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Critical journalists are abducted, broken, critical intervention for human rights is being punished with whipping. Today, the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs have received a message from Saudi Arabia: The death penalty will be abolished. – However, you have to read the small print: The death penalty is abolished for minors. - After bravo! What does the foreign office say about this? What does the Foreign Minister say, what does the former Foreign Minister Kurz say about this? Are we blind on that eye or are we saying something about it? It's not to celebrate the abolition of the death penalty for minors, so I don't celebrate that at all! There has been a motion for a resolution by Mr Pilz, Mr Drozda and Mr Hofer on the closure of the King Abdullah Centre. What has continued in this regard? – I don’t think anything went on, and that’s actually sad. I am very much in favour of supporting foreign organisations to settle in Vienna, but there is already a little need to pay attention to the issue of quality and human rights. In my opinion, efforts to bring such organisations to Vienna or Austria are under-compulsory in the budget. The other story is the peace missions. In this respect, I would like to support the fact that our soldiers on peace missions are being equipped accordingly. This is about retrofitting the pandur and a farm in my home district Simmering. I would ask you, Mr Foreign Minister, to support and hope that the German army will find the opportunity to use the Pandur as a transporter of troops, so that our soldiers, who do not always provide an easy and not always a safe service, will be supported accordingly. When the federal army is financed, it does not look very, very good, but I see a connex that affects both ministries. In addition, what is also subdivided is, of course, the cultural work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There is also a clear need for action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e24728	Mr Michel Reimon has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e24749	Mr President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors, there should still be such around this time! We really must start by thanking the Foreign Ministry and the Foreign Minister for the way in which the last weeks the recovery of citizens during the Corona crisis has taken place. That was really continuous work around the clock and it was great. The fact that there was no problem and there was not talk about it is already a huge success – perhaps a little too unthankful. We must now also look to the future in foreign policy; the burdens that come to us are enormous. I spent a few days in Northern Syria in February and looked at the refugee camps in the Kurdish areas. They knew what could happen to them in February. There was already the awareness that there was an outbreak of disease in China, and I was asked more deeply when this issue was discussed in Europe. If the disease breaks out in the camps there, we have a massive problem. In Turkey, three million people are in camps, in Syria hundreds of thousands, detto in Iraq. This will also have a further impact in the humanitarian field. There is now a locust plague in East Africa, and by the fact that there is no air traffic, there is no means of combating this locust plague coming to East Africa. While air traffic has been closed down, locusts in the whole region from Somalia to Kenya, there eat the harvest away and trigger the famine that will prevail there in a few months. – We have to act there, we have to go in there, because this problem comes to us. We can't look away, we have to invest there. I am very glad that we have managed in this area in the budget and also in the government programme to expand the budgets and expand them further over the next few years, which is a key concern for us Greens. We have managed to increase the development co-operation budget by EUR 10 million this year, and it needs to be increased in the next few years. We have even increased the disaster aid from EUR 15 million to EUR 25 million very significantly – percentages of which are really dramatic if this is not such a negative word, that is, positively dramatic. This is necessary and cannot be resetted. Corona should show us more than anything else that crises are no longer local, no longer nationally limited. We will also have to work at European level to ensure that there is a large aid programme and that we also help our neighbours around the world. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will hopefully be leading the way at European level. I rely on it; we will work together in this regard and support it. In the coming years – starting with the budget for this year, even if the figures are still very unclear – this must be a focus of this government. As a green person, we say this very self-confidently. We want this turquoise-led ministry to be financially well equipped in this area, and we will push for it. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] We know that this coalition has a problem in migration policy; we know that we have very different positions there. There is a lot of mutual blockade and a lot will be fought, but if it is so and help is preached on the ground, it will have to play help on the spot in the next few years. We're not gonna give up here, something's going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e24800	Mrs Brandstötter is speaking. Excuse me, I need the glasses. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e24837	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Minister! I am very happy to travel as a backpacker through sub-Saharan Africa, that is, some partner country of Austria in Africa is quite common to me. This year, the budget also provides for a substantial increase in the resources of development cooperation – we welcome this, I welcome it. It was also high time! The reasons why this is important have also been mentioned today, for example because Corona is the worst hit by the poorest countries in particular and the health systems are not in place for this pandemic, but above all these countries have no financial scope to reduce the economic impact on the population. This has a dramatic impact on poverty, on social cohesion and ultimately also creates pressure to emigrate, i.e. for migration – the major issue of ÖVP and FPÖ. Because of Corona, there will be rejections in the world economy, a certain slowing down of globalisation, regionalization and, unfortunately, populist nationalism, which one sees again and again in these crises. I would now like to draw your attention to the following point: Today we are talking about getting productions back to Austria or Europe. This is only a matter of strategic goods for the time being, but we will probably be very soon, too. Production goods of daily needs in the industrialized world – I am thinking of products from the 3D printer in combination with artificial intelligence. But these are the goods we are importing from developing countries today in a kind of global division of labour. If we now challenge the economic model of the global supply chains in the rich West, this is a disaster for those countries that are now industrializing – late. We also pull them away from the ground under the feet, because the traditional path of development of poorer countries starts with the fact that people move from the country to the city – to factories – which for us, yes, produce cheap goods. These are first textiles and later also other labour-intensive products, which then become increasingly complex, and this leads to the development of a well-trained middle class. We know this from the East Asian economic miracle, which builds on it exactly. These countries are already buyers of Austrian exports. Economic development is not a one-way road, but it is also very important for us to create new export markets. Now there is also a movement in Africa to try out this East Asian model. A good example is our partner country Ethiopia, an EZA center of gravity in Austria. In Ethiopia, industrial parks are built to provide people who simply do not find enough work and opportunities in the country, then work in manufacturing. This process, however, is awakening when we crack global supply chains and call “Austria first!” So what do we have to do? – We now have to start thinking about how we can adapt to a new reality in the world economy, especially our partner countries, so away from the classical development aid and towards a focus on Leapfrogging, that is, the transition from traditional development steps to new technologies and new processes that the world will have in the 21st century. ==References====External links==* Official website – A period of crisis-related reforms is also the best time for such a far-reaching new orientation. Yes – once again – we welcome the increase in the budget, but this more needs to be very fast with better and smarter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e24892	Mr Melchior is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e24914	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Foreign Minister! I am very happy and grateful to be able to speak on this item on the agenda. I was allowed to work for some time in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and have experienced there how much commitment, heart blood and great know-how the employees are active there. That is why I am very pleased that today all the political groups have expressed their thanks to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and its staff. That's more than deserved. [[General condolences.]] The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a broad network: More than 100 representative authorities, 340 Honorary Consulates, distributed around the world, guarantee that this broad network is there if you need it. We have just been able to experience in the Corona crisis how important both are: outstanding employees and a broad representation network. That has once again shown – it is now already shining? – how important it is and how great the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was as crisis manager on the road. [[pointing to the red flashing lamp at the speaker’s coil]] – Thank you for that! It has already been mentioned today: 7 500 people have been recovered during the crisis. It has passed uncomplicated – the colleague of the SPÖ has said that there has been no negative reports, that is particularly pleasing, but there have been very, very many positive reports. There are a lot of positive stories about this, and this strength and this emotion must also be taken with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in order to master the handling of all other tasks. In addition, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has another important competence, which has already been addressed, namely the topic of development cooperation. This is a very important element, and it is particularly gratifying that the funds are being increased. It is also particularly gratifying that the funds for the foreign disaster fund have been increased. To me it is incomprehensible how one can speak of that being only marginal. I think an increase like this is great, the help comes where it is supposed to arrive. [[Call the SPÖ:Read your selection program!]] – Thank you very much for that too! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Finally, I would like to thank you very much, Mr Foreign Minister, for getting along with how active you are on the road. We have also seen in this crisis that it is necessary to be in contact with other countries that the crisis is not a single national matter, but that there is a need for strong partners. You guarantee that we are in good contact, in exchange with these partners and that we will get through the crisis as best we can. – Thank you for that!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e24962	Mrs Holzleitner is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e25012	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! We've already heard, the corona pandemic has shown us one thing: We're all sitting in the same boat, no country has been spared from this impetuous virus. So, honestly, earlier on, the question of which country you do not want to exchange with was particularly pressing me. I mean, we have to take steps together to control the virus. This should actually be in the foreground, and not a competition that is better or worse, because as I said, we are all sitting in the same boat. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But what is likely to have an impact in the fight against Covid-19 is the conditions that exist in the different countries, and that is why it is all the more important to take a lead. What would provide us with a good guide is the 2030 Agenda with the Sustainable Development Goals. This is a perfect example of how we can work together on a positive future, and it would now be important to advance it and continue to implement it. What are the SDGs? These are 17 objectives of the UN Member States, which are particularly concerned with the fight against poverty, inequality and climate change. They are applicable everywhere and for all states, and we as Austria are also responsible for the implementation. A central principle is: ‘Lave no one disabled’. The Sustainable Development Goals – Corona has just shown it to us once more – are no longer a stepmother's beekeeperl, they must be pushed more deeply into the center of action! We therefore need a cross-sectoral plan, an interministerial working group, in line with the Court of Auditors' recommendations which are capable of action. It will focus on how Austria implements the SDGs, how civil society can be more involved, how NGOs can be more involved and how they can be made even more public. No matter which goal it is – no poverty, no hunger, health, well-being – all are important and relevant. Objective 17 is particularly relevant for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Partnerships to achieve the objectives. As Austria, we bear responsibility – responsibility to look beyond the edge of the plate, responsibility to reach the hand, not only in times of crisis, and not to measure ourselves with other countries, but to act in partnership. We need to see the big, global whole. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Foreign policy in particular represents a business card to the outside. Mr Schallenberg, you have already mentioned this in the Committee on Budgets: Negotiations for the 2021 budget will be difficult. We expect you to definitely fight that the budget will be sufficient, if not even higher. The good thing about the SDGs is that you already know about them, and maybe this is a good basis to beat out some euro. We as SPÖ, in any case, want a foreign policy, which is a strong, reliable, worldly partner and also acts as such, to be responsible and, above all, to be a courageous fighter for external and international solidarity. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e25069	Mr Marchetti has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e25091	Mr President. Highly esteemed Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A former vice chancellor once wrote in a letter: “the world in Vorarlberg is too small”, perhaps not particularly speaking, but charmingly pointed out that in Austria there is also a longing to look beyond the national borders. I think that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and also the 101 foreign representations have proved – and this has already been stressed several times – how highly effective they fulfil their job with a budget that is less luxuriant. In this sense also a great thank you from my side, that is really quite, very big cinema that you have delivered there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To the budget: The money for development aid has been increased to just under EUR 104 million, which has already been said several times today. However, I would like to say that development aid is not only found in the development aid pot in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there is also, for example, a programme for development research in the Ministry of Education, which, I think, is very well paid in this account. In general, as a young person, I say: We need to look at what countries we need to do more where the future is concerned. I am already coming to Africa like my colleague, Brandstötter. International credit rating agencies are much better qualified in terms of country risk, but also in terms of political risk, many countries in Africa than, for example, China. I However, there is a way of thinking that Africa does not have this potential. We must strengthen our ties with Africa: scientific, economic and cultural. This must also be a focus of Austrian foreign policy. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The budget debate is always marked by the fact that you express your wishes to the Federal Government, but today I would like to give ourselves a task in the field of foreign policy. There are the bilateral parliamentary groups and friendship groups here in Parliament, and they are also a very good tool to build international networks for Austria and also to use them for various political projects. I do not want to contact anyone personally now, but I think that on average, these friendly groups still have a great deal of potential that is not exploited. It would be great if, in addition to the activities set up by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we ourselves were to do more in this area, revive these groups of friends and work together to make an international picture of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e25151	There are no more words available to me. The discussions on this subject are thus completed. I thank Mr Schallenberg for his presence. [[21:18:13]] UG 13: Justice
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e25175	We are entering into the negotiation of Division 13: Justice. I welcome the Minister of Justice, Dr. Zadić. Mrs Yildirim is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e25203	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear Seers! At the beginning, Mrs Zadić, I would like to inform you that I personally welcome your decision to separate the criminal law section back into the criminal and individual criminal matters sections, including instructions. This implements a long-standing demand from SPÖ to reverse what has been created and always criticized by ÖVP Minister Bandion-Ortner. The next step in the reform process would be an independent state attorney or a state attorney, so that justice can work unimpeded and decoupled by politics. We have already tabled an application to that effect. We are looking forward to the debate. A strong, independent justice of the highest quality and sustainable assurance should be our goal. That sounds simple and seems natural, but it is not. The saving course in the field of justice has long – and entirely independent of Corona – taken on a worrying scale. For example: Due to the lack of human and financial resources, some courts even had to restrict their activities and could only carry out their main tasks in emergency operations. In addition, a German chancellor who questions the independence and the work of the judicial system in background discussions with journalists, and then publicly. This is damaging to the whole of justice. It is always the same scheme: financial hunger of functioning structures associated with a tax of substanceless claims. And then what? – Then structural changes are thought of, for example, the closure of court sites, and one can be celebrated as a savior in the emergency. I would like to stress that I too welcome and estimate that you could negotiate more than 70 million euros for 2020 at this difficult stage of justice, but I am convinced that, as in a joint request from us and other opposition parties from the previous legislative period, from 2019, justice needs an annual budget of 250 million euros and it is necessary to ensure, on the one hand, that reforms can be implemented on the other hand. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and Greens]] I would not like to say that, of course, we are annoyed by the fact that the Federal Financial Framework Act already lays down the amounts by 2023, with an annual amount of EUR 5 million in the judicial budget. This is not even enough for us to pay off inflation. So there's a lot ahead of us. I would just like to mention here that, of course, there is a huge cost increase to be expected in the area of action. We know that the number of inmates has tripled over the last 20 years, and that there has also been a resettlement of the institutions. So there's a lot ahead of us. Overall, I am pleased that it has taken a positive course and I am confident that we will be able to implement some important reforms here together. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e25260	Mr Prammer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e25281	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! When it was in the government program, I was glad. When a clear confession came from the Federal Chancellor, I was relieved. When it was actually in the budget, I was calmed down. If it'll be decided on Thursday, I'll be happy. – This budget will bring such a great increase in the amount of resources for justice that we can not only prevent her sluggish death, but also remove the patient from the drop of cost coverage. A total budget of 1.73 billion euros, 255 planning sites more, 40 planning sites saved from degradation – this can really be seen. There will be a clear strengthening of criminal justice in particular: 30 additional planning points for prosecutors, 100 additional planning posts for law firms at the prosecutors' offices and courts, 96 additional planning posts at all levels for the judicial board, almost 2 million euros increase for the appeal aid. This means improvements in the efficient and consistent persecution of crimes, a discharge for the staff in the judicial institutions and the best possible resocialisation of the convicted in the sense of successful reintegration into society. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another point that I am very pleased with is the protection of children's assistance. Children's assistance shall ensure that children's rights, in particular in matters of care, are respected, that they are not merely subject to the interests of the child. Parents are, but their own interests can be equally involved in the decision. This important institution will be equipped with sufficient resources to carry out the important task wherever it is requested. Not least, the distance measures have shown the importance of promoting digitalisation in the field of justice. The need to switch to home office in as many areas as possible provided evidence that the employees are already much wider than the technical equipment allows. At this point, I would like to express my express thanks to all the employees in the judiciary and in the judicial department. You have - - - Yes, you like to clap. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] – You have maintained this important pillar of the state under difficult circumstances. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The massive increase in funds will now make it possible to invest in digitalisation as well. ==References== May 2020: a day when a really great judicial budget was presented, and generally a real, really good day for justice.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e25342	Mr Stefan is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e25363	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Especially when talking about justice issues, there would be much to discuss in connection with the Covid crisis, because exceptions are obviously bad times for freedom and for the quality of legislation. This has also been shown in recent months, but unfortunately I do not have time for that and therefore I am limited to the budget. We have this cure that we are discussing a budget that is, in fact, already before its decision macular. Now, if you look at what was presented here and just praised, you can say: Yes, it is true that this budget actually provides for an increase in resources for justice, for it has been known for years that justice has been under-dated in many areas, both in terms of human resources and in terms of technical equipment. We had a discussion last summer about the silent death of justice. In other words, there was a great need for follow-up, and yes, there is now over 70 million euros more for justice. But we have to put this into relation, because in the next few years it will be relative because there will be no further increases except 0.3 percent per year, but because of inflation – I fear that inflation will still be very vehement – we will in fact be eating it again; that is what we have to say. That means, in fact, that is to say, it is going to be a reduction in the judicial budget in the next few years. So I wouldn't praise it so hymnically now, because, as I said, essentially, it's a one-time effect. Apart from that, I do not believe these figures that are being presented to us. I am pleased about the optimism that the Ministry of Justice is spreading, but I am convinced that there will be a flood of proceedings over the next few months. First of all, of course, we need a follow-up, because the judicial system is still relatively or at least in wide areas, and we have a whole series of flawless, sloppy, contradictory, unlawful events and regulations. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. We have the relief of the epidemic law, which is guaranteed to lead to many procedures, we have the right to rent, we have insolvencys that unfortunately will come in very large numbers; that is, the judicial system will be incredibly burdened. On the other hand, I think the revenue will fall, even if you don't believe it now, but it's just less. The basic book will also play less – where most revenue comes from. I do not share this optimism at all, and I fear that the budget will simply not be kept in this area. It just remains to me to say: Not to put the head in the sand, not to be too optimistic, but rather – and this is my appeal – to take care of what is now happening to us, because a functioning judicial system is now an essential part of a democratic rule of law!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e25408	Mr Steinacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e25430	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! The Corona crisis gives us the need to make a budget that is definitely extraordinary. It is extraordinary in that we can definitely implement with this budget the priorities of our government programme – and these are very important, I will be able to do it at once. On the other hand, we must and will work with this overrun with regard to the Covid-19 measures, because we in the judicial system do not know how long this crisis will take. The measures we have taken in the field of detention centres, the measures we have taken to expand the various possibilities to make video conferences and the like, all of this has cost money, all of which should ultimately be served from this pot. Now to the judicial budget. – As I say and mean: small, but fine. Only around 2 percent of the total budget belongs to justice, but I say – and I am very glad about that – that my real, important message is – and that, in my opinion, is a symbol: Justitia's scales have come back into balance. We had a subpoena, a shabby. We now have the opportunity, with the new staffing facilities, to achieve this compensation. The plus means more than 72 million euros – a plus of money that we urgently need for the various measures, a plus that I have personally fought for in recent years, even though I have not always cried out loudest. We have payments in the judicial system of EUR 1.73 billion, and these funds that are used are certainly used for efficiency purposes, because we have set ourselves the goal of implementing the objectives of the government programme, which we have in the judicial system. Which goals are these? Why is that so important? Objective 1 is to ensure legal certainty and legal peace in Austria. Anyone who lives here in Austria must be sure that his rights can be implemented permanently. Equal access to justice: Not the rich, not the poor, everyone must have the same access. There must be no differences. For us, objective, fair, independent and quick decisions of procedures are very important so that people can come to their right or can be quickly condemned. The appropriate duration is the important point. As the last point, I would like to refer to the modern, effective and human punishment as an effective objective. It is always about people who have to be locked away as Ultima Ratio because they have made mistakes and have been punished. We will, of course, implement these different objectives and accompany the Minister in doing so. One of the most important points – the previous speakers have already said it – is, of course, the personal equipment, which is also done accordingly. Just briefly: 40 additional prosecutors – very important! – 10 additional judicial posts and, above all, there are finally also for the third security column of the judiciary, namely the judicial guard, more money, so that the judicial officers can be properly accompanied in their difficult tasks: 30 additional planning points for the executive and 50 for the support staff so that everything can go well in our detention facilities. In my opinion, this judicial budget is a budget for the future – a budget for the future because we can also clearly see it in the various budget positions: Digitalization is very important to us. We have seen in recent days, weeks and months what was necessary for a big push forward. We will achieve high objectives, which we have set ourselves according to the government programme: a central, easy access to justice as a one-stop shop in the framework of the civil service at the beginning, then the comprehensive implementation of the electronic file that will now follow, and we will also begin to think about the use of artificial intelligence in order to deal with large amounts of data, especially during forestry. It seems particularly important to me to be the interface between justice and the economy: even since digitally even better, so that appropriate entries can then be dealt with quickly in the company's book or the base book. Finally, I would like to say: I think we can breathe up all those who work in the field of justice. With this budget, we set the framework conditions in such a way that the areas of law enforcement, justice and enforcement can be dealt with in a thorough and best way within the meaning of our Justitia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e25494	Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e25515	Mr President. High house! Justice: I would think that justice is somehow too short from its importance. After all, justice is one of the three pillars of our democratic rule of law: In addition to the legislative system and the executive, there is, so that the rule of law can function, as a very important institution, the judicial system. However, this is not so much expressed in the budget – Mr Steinacker has already done it – but it is only 2% of the total budget, and it is one of 58 breakdowns. In my opinion, it is a matter of dealing with the division of justice much earlier, and not only at half past ten o'clock at night, but also because today is a good day for justice, but this is due to the budget classification. Mrs Bundesminister, I would really like to thank you very much for taking a measure that is extremely good for the judicial culture in Austria today. They have practically reversed a measure ten years ago by a Its officials were set up when, at the time, a large criminal law section was created in the Ministry of Justice, summarizing all criminal agents. You have taken the step today that you will split this criminal law section, this large section back into an individual case section or direction section on one side and into a legislative section on the other side. This is a very important step for the culture of justice, even if I feel that you will not only have made friends with it. I think that there will be very interesting internal discussions in the coming weeks, which will depend on this question, because in recent years there has been a tendency to see that the EIA has some problems with justice. The budget was designed on the one hand by ÖVP Finance Ministers, but also by Justice Ministers, in such a way that the current judicial system could not even be covered. Then there were these strange statements by the Federal Chancellor – I said back to February 2020 – with the aim of suddenly suspecting any party-politically colored networks at the public prosecutor's office. This was an interesting statement because the Federal Chancellor until then did not notice that he was particularly interested in justice. Today, even if the figures are to be enjoyed with caution, we can be pleased that, in the sense of what your predecessor, Vice-Cancecian Jabloner, has done, the standstill, the silent death of the judiciary is now picked up by the increase in the justice budget by 4 percent, which is quite gratifying. In addition, however, as Mr Yildirim correctly stated, this measure must, of course, be supplemented by an independent federal attorney, so that in the area of criminal justice, one really has this complete unbiasedness of justice which it needs to be able to determine, without the individual’s reputation, fairly. All these points are very encouraging, and I would like you to be able to make it possible to do justice policy in the narrower sense now. There are many, many projects of justice policy. We have not experienced any more judicial policy with vision in Austria for a long time. In addition, it would have the advantage that it would not cost much money at all. I recall the reform of the rights of damages in the area of family rights. There is much to be done in the area of action. We NEOS are partners, we are willing to support this. At least today is a day that I am very pleased with in the sense of Austrian justice and for which I would like to thank you very much once again. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e25571	Mrs Zadić has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e25592	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen! When I took over the office of the Minister of Justice in January, the lack of a judicial budget was all over the world, and even the silent death of the judiciary was always the case. In 2019, the budget could not be found. In order to maintain the current operation, reserves of 33.8 million euros had to be recovered in 2019, since we are not yet talking about necessary reforms. If such a sub-bending had continued, the reserves would no longer have been sufficient in the financial year 2020/21 to fully meet the budget needs of the resort. You know, in the government programme, we have therefore set ourselves the goal of a sufficiently well-equipped justice. I am pleased to be able to tell you today that we can present a judicial budget that will certainly turn away from the silent death of justice, and we can also launch a number of important reform projects. You have also mentioned it several times in your speeches: For the 2020 financial year, we have available EUR 1.73 billion. If we compare it with the Federal Financial Framework Act 2019, then it is 165 million euros more, compared to the success of 2019, it is 72 million euros more. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We can not only cover the costs of running the budget, but we can also make the necessary staff increases, which are also intended to highlight independent jurisdiction and the strengthening of the rule of law. From the budget resources made available to us, we will also drive forward the necessary and important IT projects – and especially the digitisation of justice – because we have now seen in the Corona era how important a fully digitized act is, how important it is that we extend the fully digitized act to the entire federal territory as soon as possible. I would also like to highlight three areas which are very important to me personally and which are made possible with this budget. On the one hand, this is the increase in the number of planning posts at the prosecutor's office: We have agreed in the government programme on strengthening the independence of the prosecutor's office, and we have also agreed that in particular we want to fight new dangers more strongly – be it the fight against terrorism, but also the fight against cybercrime and hatred on the network. This also requires the necessary planning points at the prosecutor's office. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Mahrer.]] Yes, in this area too, we have set ourselves the goal of allowing procedures, in particular large-scale procedures, to be brought to an end more efficiently and quickly. Since taking office, I have already been allowed to visit some judicial institutions on the ground and have therefore also been able to provide me with an overview of what is needed and what is necessary. That is why, in the budgetary negotiations, it was also a great concern for me to ensure a substantial discharge in this area as well. We have succeeded in averting the initially provided savings paths and return plans in the Federal Financial Framework and in additional winning new planning posts for the discharge of employees. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am also very concerned about legal aid and psychosocial assistance. We have also committed ourselves to increasing budget resources for this. The Court of Justice, in particular the Court of Justice of the European Communities and the Court The Restart Association makes a decisive contribution to making our society a bit safer and finding the way back into a new life and into the legality of former inmates and inmates. For this there is also additional budget resources, a total of 1.9 million euros. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] But victims of sexual and violent crimes must not be left alone. Those organisations that take care of these victims by means of psychosocial or legal process support should also be better equipped. There is also an increase in budget resources for them. Last but not least, I would like to underline the digitization I mentioned: We have just seen in Corona times how important a digital justice It is. We will now be able to advance these projects too. I can honestly tell you that I am also looking forward to the fact that we can finally expand justice 3.0 and really roll out to the whole of Austria. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] In short: The judicial budget can really be seen, a great success has been achieved. I could perhaps only present to you today a small section of all that we are planning with this budget, but I am looking forward to the next months when I can work with this budget, in which I can also work together with you on the individual projects. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e25682	Mrs Fischer is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e25704	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Now, almost all I know is the saying: Everything has already been said, not everyone – the subject of justice has been widely illuminated. What may be added and what I think is very important is the democratic aspect of justice. Only if we ensure independent justice, which is sufficiently equipped with resources, will we ensure that human rights are respected, that institutions are controlled, that there is a balance between justice and police. It is important that, as stated in the government programme, the judicial system needs more money so that it does not come to its silent death. This has now been implemented. With EUR 72 million for justice, one can appoint prosecutors, judicial officers, lawyers and thus ensure that many necessary measures are implemented. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to address the Minister of Justice in my speech, and would like to thank her very much for negotiating our judicial budget so well and for pursuing policy at an eye, so that today, I believe, we have consensus that a good budget has been achieved in the area of justice. This is a great success for our democracy and for our rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e25743	I call Mr Drobits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e25764	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to begin with a warm thanks to all those who are busy in the field of justice, to all those who work in the court area, in the support area, in the public prosecutor's department, but also in the judicial department: a warm thank you! [[General condolences.]] However, I would also like to thank you, Mrs Federal Minister, together with your predecessor Dr. Jabloner, who has made the preparations, for negotiating this budget so that there is a balanced, sufficient equipment. I know it can lead to the final effect that, as in recent years, a budget overrun could be the subject. I hope that it fits precisely now and that is no longer the case. That is why it is also about ensuring the maintenance of the plant in the future with this EUR 72.4 million. I am particularly concerned that the area of data protection is significantly affected, and you have equipped the data protection authority with five additional persons to staff. I know – we both talked about it – that this will probably still be too little, because the data protection procedures are getting stronger in the future. But the command must always be: Data Protection and Voluntaryness. This is the point that needs and wants the population. Today, one of those people who were actually not so much for data protection has also made a report, namely Mrs Mei-Pochtler, the head of Think Austria, who said at one time: Data protection is not negotiable. This shows that we must make efforts in this area, that of data protection, in the future. That is why we also need to make arrangements in this regard. You have rightly said that digitisation will be significant in the next few years. 3.0 is an area that will come in the years 2022 and 2023. We also have challenges such as cybercrime, which has nominally increased by 45 percent, and also hate crimes are increasing. In this sense, I would like to give my hand, Mrs Federal Minister, and mention that we are, of course, available to ensure the independence of jurisdiction and fair and objective procedures. However, we would also ask for support in the area of data protection so that this issue can be taken into account. – Thanks again for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e25813	Mr Singer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e25834	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard several times that the budget for justice has increased to EUR 1 730 million. This means that, according to Parliament's budget service, the budget needs are almost achieved according to the Federal Minister's Perception Report, except for Clemens Jabloner. It is crucial that in addition, 295 planning sites are created. In this way, the budgetary policy focus declared by the Federal Government can be achieved to ensure independent jurisdiction and to strengthen legal certainty. It is important that this budget is now decided and not later. This is the only way to quickly implement the increase in staff. Ladies and gentlemen, as construction spokespersons of the ÖVP, I can use the debate on the field of justice to discuss matters relating to the law, which fall partly within the area of justice. ==References== COVID-19 Justice Act has created a protective package against the threat of loss of housing for people who are in payment difficulties due to the Corona crisis. These are support options, the postponement of temporary leases or the suspension of delogging, i.e. important measures for people affected. According to my research, this protective package had to be used only to a limited extent at the moment. For me, this is a sign that other support measures, such as the short-term work scheme, have taken effect. I am glad that Parliament's everyday life will soon come back. Why? – Because we have taken many measures in the government programme on housing, which we also want to implement. The European Court of Justice is concerned with such matters as: Creating a transparent, comprehensible rental right, transparent pricing, forcing the maintenance and renovation of apartments or strengthening the ecologicalisation of rental rights, all with a view to making rents cheaper and facilitating the formation of property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e25876	Mr Lausch is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e25898	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Yes, I admire the optimism of Mr Prammer and Mrs Federal Minister. I want to remind you again: The budget is made without the corona crisis. I just hope you can afford these few planning sites – I don't think that's enough –: 40 stations for prosecutors – You have to be able to afford this with the budget once you calculate the corona crisis – ten planning points for judges for all of Austria – well – and in the execution of the penalty it is even worse: 16 design centres for academics, 50 for administrative staff and – now the hammer – for the much-principled judicial guard 30 planning stations in Austria, at 28 judicial institutions. I'm already excited about the division, where these 30 planning stations are going, through your house. At 28 judicial institutions, this is a planning point per judicial body. In this sense, I am left with only one thing: to stand up for the judicial guard. It is not meant to blow empty words, and it should not always be said: It is important to us that the judiciary is so important, and then 30 planning posts are given to this profession. - That's an insult. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to thank you for the attention and say as a conclusion that these 30 planning posts are very bad at the judicial guard. Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[21:58]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e26071	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mrs Kugler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e26097	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If we look at the objectives of action in the field of justice in the budget, then the concept of human rights is very quick. These are partly equivalent objectives: Legal certainty, equal access, but also that we spend more money for staff in the area of liberty withdrawal. All of this, of course, is directly linked to human rights. It is also the same in the other subdivisions. Human rights are behind the objectives of our budget. Since many things have already been said, for example, by Mrs Fischer, I would like to raise a few points about human rights today, because I believe that human rights are in crisis twice: On the one hand, there are many people who say that the Corona measures violate their human rights. I believe that we have to reply to this, because it is true that the Corona measures are involved in human rights; I do not need to list you here. But is every intervention an injury? - Of course not. About a week ago, the former Chancellor Bierlein explains this very well in the “ZIB 2”: An intervention is not an infringement if there is a public interest in the achievement of the objective, if the means are appropriate, the means are necessary and there is a proportionality between the objective and the intervention. It's called the fundamental legal exam. In the Committee we have already discussed this issue, and NEOS have called this distinction between intervention and injury a purely semantic one. I'm sorry. Dr. Margreiter, you will surely find a jus student who will lend you a script: The fundamental law review cannot be taken away from our fundamental right understanding; the final decision, of course, lies with the Supreme Courts. But human rights are still on the test stage at another level, namely, when you hear again and again – and this may sound shocking to some – like: Leave me alone with human rights! I spoke to a otherwise very honest politician from the Caucasus who told me: I don't want anything to do with human rights activists. What's wrong? In 1948, after the crimes of the Second World War, the world was in a state of shock. We have jointly formulated human rights as a precondition for peace. The recognition of human rights meant – and so it is still today, and now I say a difficult philosophical sentence – the subordination of the state among the human person. We see, however, that in the meantime, human rights have partly become a means in a cultural struggle. What does that mean? – I would like to give you examples: Recently, a cross-regional court has established a right to illegal occupation. There are voices that say there is a human right to a child and therefore I must have a glue mother at my disposal. There are voices that say there is a human right to euthanasia. You can still find many such examples. The key to this misunderstanding of human rights is that it is all about the subjective will: because I want it. A Strasbourg lawyer said: like the freedom of an orphan. The original idea of human rights – and I have to apologize, that sounds philosophical – was a personalistic: the phenomenon of man in the center, the body-spirit-soul phenomenon. The idea was that just as one can talk about ecology in a general sense, so also the conditions of human existence that we cannot invent freely. Descartes said – I quote –: Similar laws apply to the whole of nature. Man is part of nature. - Quote. That man has rights belongs to his nature, and if we want to uphold human rights, if we are to defend them and if we want to secure them in the long term, then we must anchor them in the essence of man, in man himself, and we must not use them as ideological playball. The fact that human rights are based on the various subgroups of the budget shows that we are not about ideology, but about a service to humans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e26147	Member Krisper has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e26169	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I start my speech with a story from the life of a young prosecutor. “One afternoon someone, whose sight made me jump up and close, entered my office.” He “was – in which I enrolled criminal law, in some cases even heard – [...]” He was the highest in government. He asked: “May I turn to you?” Turn to me! May I? I prayed and invited the old Lord to sit, but he came to preside over it." He said: “His concern is short. The Procuratorate [...] dealt with the case of a certain young man, whose name he called: the young man was a relative. [...] I was afraid of what he would say now. For it was he who taught us students the independence of justice and strictly demanded that they keep it at all costs: No interventions, no influences. ‘The only thing that has to be intervened in a [...],’ he used to say, ‘is the law that has been set up.’ Would he deny his teaching in his student’s study? The act in my hand, I feared it. He asked: ‘Will the charges be filed?’ When I knew," he asked: ‘Do you have an unattended pre-examination?’ On my former yes he hesitated, then said: ‘Thank you for your information.’ The words were hard on him, he didn't add anything, he gave me his hand and recommended himself." This story from the autobiography of the great Ernst Lothar is well 100 years old, but has lost nothing to date. At the time, as today, it is about the fair people in the criminal justice that simply follow the law and therefore want to work independently, impartially and free of intervention. They should also, and I do not say that, that says § 3 of the Criminal Procedure. In the history of Ernst Lothar, the young prosecutor expected an intervention. It failed because the visitor stood at his values, even if the result did not match him. Unfortunately, it is still necessary today to say a clear no to influenced and influential criminal justice. Today, I wanted to talk about a person who developed a system in which certain criminal proceedings are torpedoed or lie down, while other procedures, if they are opportunistic for someone, are turboboosted, in which prosecutors feel put under pressure and suffocated in senseless reporting obligations, are given to them with terms of the outcome of the proceedings, and what happens if expectations are not met, namely marginalization, career end. – This is the system under Pilnacek. Mrs. Minister, you decided today not to extend Christian Pilnacek as section head. This is an important first step towards the rule of law in criminal justice. But Christian Pilnacek was only the ultimately very unfrozen head of a long established system of confidants. Therefore, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I urgently ask you: Take these further important steps for an independent criminal justice! – Thank you very much. [[Abg. Gerstl: That's unfair!]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[22:07]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e26645	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e26667	High Bureau! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I am glad that I am allowed to speak briefly as a practitioner and do not have to come out with any invented stories, not go out of here like you, Mrs Krisper, and paint some scenario of a court in a dictatorship. What you have done here is unreasonable in every respect and has nothing to do with Austrian justice, as you have described it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You have little idea of the practice of justice. We deeply reject unscrupulous scandalization in this House. [[Congratulations and bravoruf at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, we've been fighting shoulder to shoulder that there's more funds for justice. That's right, too. We have – again from practice, ladies and gentlemen – received clear evidence that there are too few staff in the non-Juristic field. These include prosecutors, but also judicial departments. We are now correcting this, so now there are not only too many heads and too few Indians, as a trade unionist in justice has said, we are now giving the necessary support. The second important issue, ladies and gentlemen, is that with this money we get a sensible, proper digitalization. We have some good approaches. Justice now works, at Corona times, as far as possible in the digital field. However, we must say: We must do this with thought and with concept, and we must also provide the individual courts with appropriate IT support, not only in the form of minord individuals. Then, I think, we will a) get faster proceedings from hopefully also uninfluenced prosecutors – I hope that the proceedings will finally get pace – and b) I hope that the rights of the accused, Mrs. Krisper, will be respected by not publishing any data or other information before the accused knows it. These are the crucial practical issues that we need to address, and nothing else. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e26716	Mr Bayr is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e26737	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Last weekend it was at home on Saturday on Viktor Adler Market in Favorites an incident involving an organization known for its anti-Semitic propaganda, in which two supposed soldiers in fake forms of the Israeli army executed a supposed Palestinian on the Victoria Adler market. They have underlined with graphs the situation in the Middle East in their opinion. There will be an ad for injury. We know that, no matter how hetification or hatred is performed, in which case it has really been a performance, it is ultimately totally no matter whether it is anti-Semitic content, racist, anti-foreign, anti-female or content where disabled people are made despicable. Whether they take place online or at the Viktor Adler market, they are generally contemptible and are persecuted. For this tracking it takes resources, it needs know-how and ultimately it needs Manpower, Womanpower. I know that it is also a great concern for the Federal Minister to provide more staff to the prosecutors in this area of hate crimes to make it easier. For example, hetification is an official offence, since law enforcement authorities have to act on their own initiative, which is not always successful because there is so little staff there. Now, on the one hand, I am very glad that there will be this increase in staff. I think this is just as important as you. On the other hand, I think that we can estimate the budgetary consequences of this social and economic crisis due to the pandemic for Austria and for the Austrian budget, perhaps even this year, but at least for the next few years, if not decades. We will all be clear that we will be moving with an unpackable deficit backpack over the next ten years. I think it will be up to us to see that what happens then will not only go at the expense of these additional prosecutor's posts, but also that at the end of the day it will not have been a huge redistribution from the bottom to the top, that it will not open a door, a dam break for even more neoliberal economic madness. I think we will also have to pool some of the forces here in this House to really prevent what might follow in the interests of people.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e26780	Mrs Jachs is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e26801	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have been negotiating the budget for more than 13 hours, and that is why you allow me to make a general comment. Dear Opposition, it will be a bit laborious to listen to your permanent repetitions that you have been running in continuous loops, as this will undermine the really positive aspects of this budget. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I have an unused mouth-nose protection mask with, and I recommend that you put it up during the session, then we might hear the calls a little damper. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Let us consider the positive aspects of this budget in the field of justice. The court's getting more money. [[Abg. Yildirim: Intervocations are a parliamentary instrument! ... Democracy!]] This is a good day for justice, because we get additional planning points – 255 in number – for courts, for prosecutors, in support, and it remains even more money for projects that are really important and finally implemented, such as digitization and electronic act; my previous speakers have already mentioned it. If you need justice, it is good to help quickly and independently if there is a low level of access to justice, and that is guaranteed by this budget. I thank you for this, Mrs. Federal Minister. I thank the Federal Government for the good, positive budget for the justice sector. This will ensure that justice can continue to fulfil its tasks in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e26856	Mrs Becher is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e26877	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I want to deal with a small part of the judicial budget, which I think is worth considering. These are the court fees to be paid when you call the court. This is where revenue in the budget is expected to amount to 1.3 billion euros. This is a cost cover well over 100 percent. Our rule of law says that fees are cost-covering contributions for expenses, and if important tasks in the field of justice are to be done, they must be paid and made available through taxes and not through fees. This budget is strictly financed, not by court fees, but by court taxes. Consider how many procedures are pending, there are alone in the rental law, and with a larger apartment you often have to count more than 700 euros of fees. Now we know a lot of problems in rental law. This is the dispute of illegal high rents, with the deadlines Schindluder is driven, the termination protection is softened. In fact, rent law is no longer contemporary, it is urgently modernized. It is legal uncertainty, and the SPÖ has presented the universal rental law as a proposal in which people do not need a lawyer to calculate the rental height. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now, on the part of the ÖVP – Mr Singer has also mentioned it today – individual measures have been mentioned in the Government Declaration. These have already been stated in some government declarations. It has always been pushed to the long bank, an entire right of residence has never been implemented. Nor am I surprised that this has not been implemented, because every day that nothing happens is a good day for the landlords, for the real estate lobby – not to say: The cash register is ringing with them! On the judicial budget, I would like to say once again that there are court fees in Austria: Under Turquoise-Green, good right is expensive, bad right as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e26916	Mr Stocker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e26938	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Ladies and gentlemen! The finding by the former Minister of Justice of the transitional government that justice would die a “quiet death” has been mentioned several times. What is the basis of this finding has been taken into account in this budget and the corresponding increase in appropriations has been made. But it is not only the budget that can be seen in the field of justice, ladies and gentlemen, it can also be seen in the Austrian justice system. I have considered, as an example of the duration of the procedure, how the conditions are in Austria. We have an average duration of six months in the disputed civil proceedings at the District Courts, at the national courts of about 13 months. Only 2.3 per cent of all the proceedings in dispute Civil society lasts more than three years. In criminal law, on average, the investigation procedure and the main proceedings of the District Courts take only 0.6 months, with the federal courts for 1.1 months. That is to say, the procedures are quite quick, and these findings and these figures, which I call you here, come from the time before this survey and expertise of the Minister of Justice of the transitional government. A small trip to the Constitutional Court shows us that even since the proceedings are for the first time shorter than four months, there is no need for an hasty procedure, because the duration of the proceedings does not produce it. And digitalisation in justice is also something that gives rise to joy. We have an electronic base book, company book, edict file and also the electronic file, which has now been extended to criminal proceedings. The quality and acceptance of decisions is very high. Only every fifth decision of our courts will be fought by means of an appeal. You see, then, that justice works, and it will continue to work in the future through this budget approach and will receive the resources it needs for its functioning. One, Mrs Yildirim, I would like to add at this point: It's not an attack on justice, as you meant here, what the chancellor told in a background talk. An attack on independent justice, dear Mrs Colleague, was the conversation in the firm of the lawyer to be attributed to you, and, above all, the intention of the talks that have been held there. [[Abg. Yildirim: When?]] – That was an attack on independent justice!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e26974	This has previously gone down: Mrs Krisper's motion for a resolution has been properly tabled, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Member Schrangl has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e26999	Mr President. Dear Minister of the Interior! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to talk about another issue – unfortunately, we do not have so much time, but I think it is a subject that needs to be addressed – namely the cost of acquitting. Now Mrs. Minister is not here, but I hope that a former practitioner will approach this issue as a minister. If one is acquitted today in a criminal proceedings in which one has become innocent, there is already another form of punishment, and that is the destruction of economic existence. In contrast to similar legal systems across Europe, Germany and Switzerland, for example, there is the so-called ceiling on remuneration in Austria, in the case of acquittal costs, and this is EUR 5 000. Whoever has ever taken a lawyer knows that this is probably not a lot of money. Not in the same way. far away from the Czech Republic, which has only half of the Austrian gross domestic product, there is no such limit. I therefore do not do it today, but perhaps in the future I will make an application for the abolition of § 393 para. 1 and § 393a para. 1 StPO. The Minister has raised another point, namely the fully digitized act. Since I always have to work with it as a practitioner, she clearly has our support there. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e27035	There are no further words available to me. The discussions on the subject of UG 13: Justice have thus ended. [[22:24:00]] UG 11: Internals UG 18: Tourism
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e27071	Finally, we reach the end of the 11th UG, as well as the 18th UG, aliens. The debate is under one. Member of the European Parliament is hereby notified. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e27096	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister of the Interior! Well, how are we going about this now, Minister of the Interior? A budget debate on a budget that you yourself have launched in the Committee on Budgets with the fact that you know that the figures will not vote. The second is that it is actually a continuation, a continuation of your predecessor's numbers. Are we really going to have a budget debate on a budget to which the Minister in the Committee on Budgets is already beginning with the fact that this is not actually his figures, and, secondly, is he saying that he already knows that they will not vote anyway? Mr Internal Minister, this is the problem we have with this budget of wrong figures. If I were really mean now, I could say, Well, with wrong numbers, you have experience as ÖVP Secretary General! There you have had entire accounts with wrong numbers, so you can obviously also deal with a budget with wrong numbers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schmidhofer: That's not true!]] But if we look at this budget of the wrong figures – or say it as the Minister of Finance says: this budget for the old paper – then we can already say positively that there is an increase in the budget in the interior area. Yeah, that would be positive if it were to come like that. The big question, however, is whether these figures will be confirmed at some point in time, because we already need more budget in the interior. There are major challenges, such as the fight against cybercrime. There's more staff needed, so you need better trained staff. This would also be earned by the police who do an excellent job every day. Best equipment, best infrastructure and sufficient staff: That would be what the police and the police deserve! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But what the executive officials are sorry, Minister of the Interior, is the beautiful announcements, and it has always been in the last few years and time and again that they have just been announced in the security field and then only very, very sparsely implemented. I fear – and this is my great concern – that this budget will be back in such a way that we now have the announcements, but at the end of the day of these beautiful announcements, the beautiful budget figures in the waste paper budget will be relatively little left. Mr Minister, we will then measure you in terms of implementation. Do you know what this resort deserved? – This place would have deserved a minister. Unfortunately, now we have a party general secretary again in the interior. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is even more noticeable than with the predecessors of the FPÖ, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Interior Minister, get out of the Secretary-General's role! Come on. You finally get out of the Secretary-General's role and into the Interior Minister's role! They act with falsehoods and half-truths when it comes to Vienna. That's where you're insecure the population. Stop campaigning, stop making party politics in your department, but do what you should do! [[Abg. Schmidhofer: Truth hurts!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstl, who holds a chart with a circular diagram in the height.]] Update the figures for your department so that we can have a budget that we can discuss properly and decently, because that needs security policy! Security policy needs reliability, and this budget does not reflect that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e27170	Mr Mahrer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e27191	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Values Advisors! My dear colleague from Vorarlberg, Mr Einwallner! To speak with your words: Hold on, Mr. Einwallner! Feel that you are wrong if you use the same parameters with which we have previously talked about the justice budget, now try to enlist to our Minister of the Interior that he works with numbers that do not vote! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Mr. Einwallner, you're really wrong. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We are talking about 3 billion euros of security budget today. We are talking about the highest security budget of the Second Republic and about a security budget coming at a time when the high level of security in Austria can be further improved, because with this budget we are giving people what they want when they think of internal security. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Waller]] What do people want when they think of security? – I get along a lot with people and the wishes are always the same. With this budget we create conditions for this. We're creating more police on the street – that's something people want. We are creating more qualitative work in the investigation of the criminal police. We are creating more prevention especially in the field of cybercrime. We create even more and more intensive fight against international organised crime, extremism and terrorism. [[Abg. Vogl: So successful...!]] Ladies and gentlemen – I am speaking very strongly to the SPÖ Members – we are also creating more protection from violence. I know – and you also know when you have been observing the last few weeks – that the Minister of the Interior is particularly important to protect against violence, and especially to protect against violence against women. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Fischer.]] With this budget, ladies and gentlemen, we are creating the basis for 4 300 new police officers, of which 2 300 additional posts and 2 000 training places. You can argue as you want, but these are the numbers – they stand and they vote. But you know something else: I'm not always just talking about numbers, facts and facts. You know very well because you already know me that I talk about security very often also about people and their feelings. It is not just about the objective crime situation. It's also about how people feel. It is about their sense of security and especially about the security of those people who have built up our Republic, the elderly, the elderly. There is, as you know, the Joint Security Initiative developed by Johanna Mikl-Leiter and Wolfgang Sobotka, today President of the National Council, and which will develop Karl Nehammer accordingly, an initiative that is a success story. [[Abg. Lightness: You forgot about Straster!]] Why? – Because they further develop police cooperation with civil society, with the cities, with the communities accordingly. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Fischer.]] Very important, ladies and gentlemen, is also the area of asylum and migration. You know very well that we have a clear strategy: the distinction between asylum and labour migration. All the people who are fleeing who want to be persecuted and we have to grant asylum. But all those who want to improve their living conditions and come to Europe or Austria must say clearly: controlled immigration, if it is in the interest of Austria. We are also making the necessary conditions with this budget. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, in order to create the round to our colleague, Mr Einwallner: Each of us knows that the budgetary criteria have constantly changed over the last few weeks. They will continue to change. The economic researchers' forecasts are extremely fragile. [[Abg. Vogl: And volatility!]] But only – and this is essential now – with the decision of this budget it is possible to ensure the security of action of the individual departments, because this budget guarantees what is really important to people, even in challenging times: more resources for justice – They all welcomed it -, more resources for the federal army, more resources for the police. This creates more security for Austria. This is what the people in this country and, by the way, the police also want.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e27284	Mr Amesbauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e27305	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! During the period of the Corona crisis, one could get the impression that the topic of asylum and immigration has been resolved in the air. That is not the case, of course. From your house, Mr. Federal Minister, we know that approximately 110 000 illegal migrants are currently moving and staying along the Balkan Route, although Sebastian Kurz's Balkan route is said to have been closed alone. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and Greens]] Ladies and gentlemen! The draft budget for the 2020 budget is intended for UG 18, for tourism, for a total of EUR 378.8 million in the financing budget. The accommodation and supply of asylum seekers cost the federal government on average around 21,60 euros per day in the previous year. This does not include procedural costs and other subsidies. Ladies and gentlemen! The Corona crisis is very demanding of Austrian citizens. We need the money in our own country! We therefore call for temporary suspension of asylum law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Y ılmaz.]] I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to agree to this proposal in the sense of politics for Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Bravo!]] [[22:35]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e27417	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and under negotiation. Mr Bürstmayr. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e27441	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Let me join you here. Tourism: It sounds like those who do not belong to us, the strangers. However, according to Austrian law, a stranger is simply a person who does not own Austrian citizenship, for whatever reason. Whether you've been living in Austria for decades or just since yesterday, the law doesn't make any difference, no passport means: strange. These are currently one and a half million people in Austria, each sixth. Most of them have one thing in common: You're here in Austria. [[Abg. Yılmaz: Born!]] Most of them stayed in Austria in the middle of March. We, who have an Austrian passport, have together with them gone through this special, so crazy, unprecedented time. We have refrained from common prayers, in synagogues, churches and mosques, we have worked for a short time or lost our jobs, renounced inn visits and amenities and followed the rules – together! Some people in this house don't fit. Those who want to split our society want to insist that there are two classes of people, depending on passport. But a virus doesn't ask you for your passport, and in a crisis it doesn't matter where you come from, but what you're willing to contribute. It has already been thanked in this House in the last National Council debates, so far no one has mentioned one of the largest groups in Austria at all, namely the people without Austrian passport: one and a half million people, every sixth. That is why I would like to thank them for being a stranger to our Austria, for helping them with patience, helping them to prevent the worst, and for the fact that we are now going to work together to eliminate, clean up, lock up, continue – because this is Austria, because it is Europe! We'll do this together! [[It is a surprise to the Greens and to representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] To this end, it is for the more than one hundred languages represented in Austria: Thank you! Hvala! Spasibo! Thank you! Tutzen tack! Efcharisto polí! Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e27489	Mrs Krisper is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e27510	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Trust is a great asset, and what lack of trust can do with an institution, we unfortunately see very well at the moment at the BAT. The search for the house in the BAT in 2018, the devastating publication of the Bernese Club's visitation report and the subsequent public debate greatly damaged the confidence in the BAT in this country, and also the trust of the international partners in between. The reform is now going to take place, but just to gain confidence, control must also be sought. A black box rarely has the best confidence values. That is why, as a Member of Parliament, I say: Trust is good, but control is better. Parliamentary control should be strengthened, including with regard to the budget of the BAT. There is currently zero control, and for me it is a completely absurd state that we as Parliament do not know how it is about the budget of the BAT. We also need to know how the Federal Office's financial and human resources are to be integrated seriously into the reform, but also beyond. So far, we don't know. The budget is fully included in the Directorate-General for Public Security and is treated as a state secret, which may not even be known by the Members of the Committee on the Interior, the Intelligence Committee. That's not the way we think it is. You, Minister of the Interior, wanted us to believe in the Committee on the Interior and then also in the Committee on Budgets that this was an international standard, because intelligence services would otherwise be more vulnerable. I told you at the time that this was not true, because ex-internal minister Kickl sent us to France because of the reform, where we visited the committee in Paris, which deals with the financial conduct of the French intelligence service. There is also a very marked parliamentary control in Switzerland of the budget of the Swiss Secret Service. That is what we need in Austria, especially if the protection of the state and the constitution is now to be given more competence. No question, I am sure to be in conformity with you, if you say that there is information in the state that is not suitable for the public, but Parliament should nevertheless be informed about the budget, although partly only in the intelligence committee. I am certainly not the only taxpayer who wants to know what happens to her money and what money is going on in the BAT. Control creates trust. In this sense, I hope to have an honest debate in the Committee on the Interior on how Parliament can also be taken into consideration in the budget of the BAT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e27551	The Minister of the Interior has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e27572	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The speeches have shown: The duties of the Ministry of the Interior, the duties of the police, the tasks of the staff of the security administration are also varied. All of you are very grateful from this point of view. We are on the one hand thanks to the strong commitment of the police and the Ministry of the Interior, but on the other hand also due to Good and close cooperation with the population is the fourth most secure country in the world. The police are the partners of the Austrians, the people who live in Austria. The joint action has already been addressed: It should highlight this in particular and, above all, show the full range of security services for people in our country. Therefore, it will continue and will be an important part of our further planning at the Ministry of the Interior, because together it will certainly express why police officers, as well as the employees of the security administration, are happy to provide their service: because it is simply nice to be there for the safety of Austrians. [[In the case of the ÖVP, MEPs of the Greens and the Agg. Y ılmaz.]] The Coronavirus has faced major challenges both to the police and to the Ministry of the Interior. There was and still is the use of state crisis and disaster management. All measures to combat the corona virus crisis will be coordinated in it, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. At the same time, it was a completely new reality for the police in the street. We all remember the street view changed by the restrictions. There is also a completely changing crime. We have been struggling for some time now with the challenge that crime is moving much more into the Internet, but of course much more in times of crisis. There are dramatic increases, so we are also preparing intensively for police work to fight crime by increasing staff in the Federal Criminal Office. Also in the new building – and this has already been mentioned today – the new constitutional protection will play a very important role in the topics of Internet crime and cyberterrorism in order to build structures that protect the Republic, the Austrians and people living in Austria accordingly. In addition, there are still new threats to the internal security of our country. Remember that the issue of extremism on the part of the Ministry of the Interior, on the part of the Constitutional Protection, is very serious, that we must not only look at all new forms of threat, but also take action against it! Think of the recent intervention against state enemies, an extremely dangerous group for democracy, for the security of people in our country! Without effective and strong constitutional protection, the fight against them would be much harder. In other words, the reform is in a good way, it is equipped with the necessary financial resources. Madam Member, yes, you are right: [[towards Abg. Krisper]] In fact, there is always a balance between the need for public information when it comes to a intelligence service, which is to work together with the future state police in an organisational association, and to vote in favour of the need for secrecy. However, you also know from the Committee on the Interior that I have assured you that in the Standing Subcommittee subject to secrecy, of course, the representatives of democracy, the honourable Member of this House gives full access to information, such as the financial situation, as the BAT budget looks like. It's important to distinguish since it's time and again: What can I actually make public, what can't? At the same time, during this legislative period, the Federal Government has undertaken to bring 4 300 additional police officers to the streets for greater security in the truest sense of the word. How does that work? – With 2 000 additional sites in training and 2 300 additional facilities for police inspections. It has also been mentioned by the previous speakers today how essential the subjective sense of security is. That's exactly what police officers do in their strip service and much more when they're on foot and people see that there's someone they can use right away when they feel threatened. That is exactly why the initiative is on high-speed. The budget is also planned for this purpose. It was also addressed – and yes, I don't even like to say that at all: The budget has drawn up substantially my predecessor Wolfgang Peschorn. I am very grateful for his commitment as Minister of the Interior in a particularly difficult time. He is still an important companion of the Ministry of the Interior, now head of the Financial Procuratorship, as a lawyer of the Republic, which we are constantly involved in our work when it comes to clarifying legal issues. To combat terrorism, to recognize extremism in time, but also – just as important for us as a society – to combat anti-Semitism in our country, all this will become the core competence and task of the new constitutional protection. He should also be provided with enough resources to actually work. The next major challenge – it was also addressed today – is the migration crisis. I have had intensive discussions with the Bosnian Minister for the Interior, with the Croatian Minister for the Interior, with the Interior Ministers of all the countries concerned, especially Greece, with the Vice-President of the EU Commission, with the Serbian Minister of the Interior, in order to get a clear picture of the situation and to coordinate closely with them. But Austria not only speaks, but also acts. Just as we have actively supported Greece with 181 housing and sanitary containers for the accommodation of refugees, we support Greece with local police officers, including on-site money, with 1 million euros of emergency assistance to show that external border protection is important not only in words, but above all in actions. In the same way, we also deal with the states of the Western Balkans: close coordination, close coordination and assistance where desired – I say this quite consciously. This is always a close coordination process with our neighbours, and it works well. We are now sending again police officers with a vehicle to the Serbian border, equipped with a thermal camera and additional technical equipment to fight irregular migration efficiently, because we are based on the theory of the three safety networks. The first major safety net is the European external border. That is why it takes all the support that is possible to ensure security there. If this safety net is overcome, then there is the second safety net, and these are the borders of the world's Balkans countries, where the migration routes run. This is precisely where cooperation with security authorities, training on the ground, as well as Austrian local police officers are so important in order to fight quickly and efficiently against organised crime, tow and also irregular migration. The reason why I put this in a breath is because it is unfortunately very closely linked and interwoven. Now, in times of coronavirus, we have also seen: Organized crime – and especially the tractors – is able to change their cynical business model very quickly. All of a sudden, when they no longer drag people, they smuggle weapons or drugs. Drugs, another key word: In drug trafficking, too, the issue of combating organised crime remains a major challenge, and there is also a change, as it is increasingly moving – of course also fueled by the corona virus crisis – to the Internet. That is, the Federal Criminal Office must also be equipped with more personnel and technical resources in this area to fight this form of crime – and we do. That means we have a strong budget. We have a lot of tasks ahead of us. What makes me confident that the assessment of my work as an interior minister you have spoken about will be a positive one next year is the fact that we have outstanding police officers in operation and also staff members in the security administration. I'm looking forward to working with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e27665	Mr Gerstl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e27687	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! – Thank you for the memory, it was no intention that I left the mask above. [[The speaker wears a face vision.]] [[Abg. Yılmaz: At the pult we talk without a mask!]] [[The speaker takes off the face vision.]] [[Abg. Yılmaz: I'm looking at something like that!]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] What do you need when you go through a crisis, first? – A functioning crisis and disaster management system! Therefore, on behalf of all Austrians, I should like to thank you very much: a thank you for the crisis and disaster management of the Ministry of the Interior, which took over this task – a crisis and disaster management, which took place on 25 May. February has already started work very intensively with a 24/7 course, which has enabled health authorities to join in and then build their own health system, because in cooperation we are strong and in cooperation we fight the virus. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the NEOS]] [[Abg. Loacker: Where did they fit in?]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is so important that, if it is difficult, one should stick together and fight against such a virus accordingly. What is important in those times, Mr Einwallner, is that you can really call objective data, and it is therefore very important to call the objective data. Ladies and gentlemen, when Mr. Landeshuptmann points out that in Carinthia since 1. May only one person is newly infected and there is currently only one person at all, then it is quite understandable to him that he says he wants to be infected by [[Keeping a graphic with the title “Carinthia, Increase = 1” in height, on which the number of infections is represented by a flat curve]] Vienna is different because it has been in Vienna since 1. May plus 604 cases, say an increase of soon 24 percent. [[keeping a graphic entitled “Vienna, growth + 604 cases = + 23.86%” in height, on which the number of infections is represented by a steep curve]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Loacker: There works... from the Ministry of the Interior not in Vienna!]] It is therefore quite, very important that, if there are objective data, as the head of state Kaiser says, one treats things differently, ladies and gentlemen – different starting points, different answers! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Loacker: An insult to the intelligence of the listeners!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] So I don't have to tell you any more – I had this printed out of the EMS yesterday –: [[Keeping a document in height on which the districts and the corresponding case numbers are listed]] The eleven strongest districts of Austria as far as the case developments are concerned are all districts of Vienna. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Well, it's the task of everyone who bears responsibility in this city, and of everyone who bears responsibility at the federal level, that he accepts these cases, because: What's this about? - We don't want a second wave. That is to avoid, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Loacker: Is it better in the ÖVP districts than in the red districts?]] That's why I can end up with Henry Ford. He said: “Congregation is a beginning.” – Just like here. – “Summary is progress. Cooperation is the success.” – Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e27859	The next item is the speech by Mrs Schatter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e27880	Mr President. Dear Minister! Before I come to my speech, allow me to address some of my previous speakers! Mr Gerstl, on your Vienna bashing, I do not think I need to say anything more, but I would like to respond to Mr Mahrer's comments. [[Call the ÖVP: fact-based!]] They have addressed the subjective sense of security of the population. Mr Mahrer, with a government conscious of politics Fear creates and fears, you will not feel secure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Please! Oh, my God!]] Because you have addressed the issue of violence – and I believe it is very important to us all – I can remind you that it has been the black and blue government with Interior Minister Kickl who abolished the Marac Falls conferences, a truly important instrument for combating violence against women. I am really asking, Minister of the Interior, that there will be quality equivalent case conferences relatively soon. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On colleague Amesbauer: Mr Amesbauer, asylum is a human right, regardless of whether there is a corona crisis or not. That's not what we're going to shake. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: But there are illegal migrants, are there? But illegal migrants still exist!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are celebrating this 75 years of liberation from National Socialism. May 1945. After 1945, a false victim myth was confirmed relatively quickly in Austria. This has also prevented Austria from having a comprehensive NS-time reprocessing. The evil was seen concentrated on the town of Mauthausen, while the Mauthausen concentration camp itself had 49 outdoor camps, apart from many other Nazi terrorist sites in the area of Austria. Few of these are still visible today, and where there are memorials, this is due in particular to local commemorative initiatives. Gusen is the largest camp in Mauthausen and a symbol of how Austria has dealt with history, with commemorative policy: On the surface of the former Gusen concentration camp there is today a residential settlement. The small memorial, the small memorial, is due to former prisoners who bought the crematorium in Gusen and later declared and handed it over to the Republic of Austria as a memorial because they wanted to act against the oblivion and did so. ==References====External links== May announced to go in sales negotiations with the owners of the remaining properties. I welcome this and say that quite clearly, but I also ask that there be a corresponding involvement of the population, the survival organisations in the establishment of the memorial. There is no means in this budget for the establishment of the memorial, but, Minister, you will be able to rely on us to do so accordingly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One thing is also important to me to stress, Minister: You know, the warehouse complex is also part of the Stollenbau Bergklass in Sankt Georgen aan der Gusen. The fact that this is also purchased is not provided for in the feasibility study, but it is necessary for the establishment of a memorial and for a learning place of Gusen. Learning place is also a keyword for me: We have only recently been confronted with a study, according to which students of the 9th century School level shows large gaps in knowledge as regards the NS time. 20 percent of students do not know what anti-Semitism is, or do not know which groups have been persecuted by the National Socialists alongside Jews. This is a clear task for all of us. Democracy and awareness-building is the responsibility we bear because of our history, and this responsibility also obliges us to show – we know from a request answer from you – that there have been more than 100 damages from Nazi memorials in Austria between 2013 and early 2020, and it obliges us to finally take measures against this highest level of right-wing crimes that we have experienced since 2015. We finally need to get active there. This is the responsibility we bear, also to the victims of National Socialism. She asks us to finally deal with it. That is why we finally need the reintroduction of the right-wing extremism report, we need – and this has already been mentioned – more staff in the BAT, especially in the extremism department, we need an action plan against right-wing extremism, and we need the necessary budget for all these measures. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e27961	Next item is the report by Mr Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e27983	Mr President. Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased that Mrs Schatz has recognised what Minister of the Interior Karl Nehammer is doing in commemorative work on buying in Gusen. This is indeed an important and necessary step. I should also like to mention that the President of the National Council of Sobotka, who is behind me, is also doing a lot in this area. I don't think it's possible to blame this federal government for the fact that there's too little going on there, so: Thank you for You've also recognized that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] In addition to what you have addressed, the decisive thing is the security of the people here in the country, and it is good that Minister of the Interior Nehammer could rightly refer to the high security in Austria. In many areas, the corona crisis presents us with a view to developments that have been very busy with it. In politics, individual topics always have economic trends: Once it's the wave of refugees, it was terror before when we remember. I would like to point out today that now that there is a lot of uncertainty in the In the background, in the background, there are terrorist organisations, of which we may have believed that they have already found an end – I am thinking of the caliphate of the IS – that in reality this corona virus also wants to be useful for its terrible projects. In an article in the recent edition of “Al Naba” – that is, the newspaper of the IS – the coronavirus is naturally described as the punishment of God: on the one hand, for communist China, on the other – as we, the Western world, are called – for the so-called crusade rites. Secret services tell us that the risk of terrorism is growing in this respect, especially in dealing with bioterrorism. What's going on in such brains? – If you want to practice bioterrorism with the corona virus, which is less than 1 percent of the mortality of the infected, and take bioterrorist steps to achieve, for example, a mortality of the Ebola virus, you could do terrible things. One of the first to have been murdered by the IS was in Rakka, a dean at the university of Rakka, who was involved in biotechnical terror. He refused to work for the IS, and was executed immediately. Why do I say that? – In addition to what concerns us, we should also focus on the fact that there are other dangers. Yesterday, the competent Council of Europe's Committee on Terrorism warned. Let's be honest: The Western world was completely surprised when this Covid-19 virus hit us. What I want to say: We should take bioterrorism seriously and keep an eye on it and be prepared so that we do not experience another surprise. That might be a much more negative one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e28031	Mr Ries is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e28052	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! The police were already much praised today. Of course, we agree with this praise, but it must also be said that the police must carry out some of their duties in inspections, especially in Vienna, which are no longer contemporary. We have discussed this in the Committee, and you are also of our opinion in this regard, and this has been improved. The police also have a pay schedule, which is highly dependent on allowances – in German: You can't get anything, just don't get sick. Therefore, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, agree! Clapsing alone does not improve the financial security of our police officers! [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Let us act now if we want to ensure social security! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[23:04]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e28159	The application is properly filed and is under negotiation. Mrs Himmelbauer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e28185	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! But still very exhilarating to so later hour! Let's go back to the sub-division: Of course, the crisis also had its impact on crime in Austria. In recent weeks, we have been able to experience much less collapses and thefts – clearly due to baseline restrictions, closed borders, but also corresponding police presence. At the same time, however, Internet crime has increased in the narrower sense and in the wider sense. fake bank emails that play with the fear of people to steal account data; unscrupulous goods such as mouth-nose protection, which never arrive after payment; Damage software for companies that are asked to pay high sums, otherwise all data will be lost – a broad collection of Internet crime. This does not include the increase in digital drug trafficking, the spread of child pornography in relevant forums or the targeted attack on IT systems, as we have experienced in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs this year. Through the increasing digitization of our lives, the investigation and the fight against Internet crime has also become a central part of police work. It is quite clear that we are therefore also investing in the training of IT specialists and also in a modern infrastructure. We must also be there at the height of time. We must promote cooperation between the public sector and, for example, the companies affected by it. We must constantly encourage the exchange of information, particularly with regard to this fast-moving, adaptive form of crime. Not to be forgotten – this has already been addressed by the Minister today –: We must invest in prevention work in order to also provide the population with a weapon to ensure that it can have a safe use of the Internet. All of this can also be found in the budget: more money in the field of security, not only this year, but also continuously in the coming years, and more police officers on the streets, but also those with specialization such as in the field of cybercops. Thank you very much, Minister, for investing in security and also for thanking the police who are in use.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e28222	Mr Seemayer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e28244	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Thanks to my predecessor to our police officers, I can only join; it has already been thanked a few times today. They have done great things and probably have to do some more, but they have sometimes found quite difficult conditions. It wasn't always clear what to do: Is a Ministry regulation or an announcement to be made at a press conference? After all, one has always found that this has not completely covered and that some of the things that have been announced have not been done at all. It was also a little difficult for the police to implement it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is quite good that our police officers have acted with a sense of mind, eye and fingertip feeling and, I say, have not acted in excess. I would like to point out a small thing – perhaps small numbers are easier to handle than large numbers –: The measures that have been taken, of course, have made it necessary to increase the police's willingness to work. On the one hand, this has happened by overtime, but on the other hand also through holiday barriers. Due to the holiday barriers, holidays had to be cancelled or cancelled – you have reported this yourself in the committee. [[towards Federal Minister Nehammer]] This has led the service provider to bear the costs. Of course, that's also the case with the police. Until then, everything is clear, but the Ministry has decided to do so on wage and salary accounting, which leads to the cost of the cancellation being recovered for the first time to be taxed. I think it was one of your employees who then said that it was possible to get back on the employee charges at the end of the year. That's true, of course, but has a serious disadvantage: This is taken into account in the advertising-cost show. If a person does not write off any additional advertising costs, he will pay practically the 132 euros himself. If he still has to expect it to take up to a year or more until he gets his costs finally replaced, ladies and gentlemen, then I have to say that our police officers have not deserved it. Mr Minister, I ask you: Get a timely payout! That's not a big budget position now, I think you can handle it quite simply. Make sure you get a proper and quick payout! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e28292	Next word is reported by Mr Jachs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e28313	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Among the most important basic needs of the Austrians is safety, we have already heard that. The number of crime cases has even declined in the three-year average. Unfortunately, the subjective sense of security of the Austrians is partly a different one, not least because of the uncertainties caused by the opposition. The police's challenges have definitely changed over the last few years. Not only is offline crime, but cybercrime has also become a very, very important keyword, including the fight against extremism, whether from the left, right or religiously motivated side. That is why I am very pleased that the security budget is experiencing a rise in the number of people on the road, because it only shows that in the security sector we are going a way with a sense of mind that really goes through. So thank you, Minister of the Interior, for this strict, consistent way with the mind of the house. The Austrians will surely be happy to see more executive officials on the streets, which will also increase the subjective safety experience. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I have one more request to you. The security of the people who live in our country is too high a good thing to hit political change here, which is why: Let us continue to work together for the Security of the Austrians and our police officers at work here!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e28359	Next word is reported by Mr Yılmaz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e28390	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it was really hard to talk about the budget during the budget discussions. It could have been a question mark in every line – and this is not an accusation – and then 20 question marks below. You can't know exactly that, but good. But you have mentioned a number of things to us, and this is solid and solid, which has gone relatively fast – this is due to colleagues Amesbauer, who predicted that an asylum-seeker costs the taxpayer about 21,40 euros per day, it should be 22 euros; I would ask you to calculate what the horses have been costing us for a year: 2.5 million euros! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, NEOS and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] You have to imagine this, there are nine – we have returned two – and the Minister has immediately given us the number: They have cost 2.5 million euros so far! Two who came as a gift from Hungary, we could return, and now we sit on nine horses! [[Abg. Amesbauer: Please go to the ÖVP, that's your budget!]] And this is not the end of the flag rod, for we still have the nine horses and they will still cost a little; there I am already curious. [[Abg. Amesbauer: That was an excellent project!]] So taxpayers still pay for the dream of Mr. Kickl. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Now please speak to the blacks!]] Yes, Mr Gerstl: Viennabashing. [[Abg. Gerstl: Where was a Viennabashing?]] It's a virus like that now, I think. The Federal Chancellor has started with this, and I am surprised that you have now also begun to do so, Minister of the Interior. When I discuss with you on the Committee on Budgetary Negotiations, you're a different person. Then I look at your press conferences and listen, you're talking about Glutnestern you want to erase, you're talking about the police as a new flex that separates the infection chains. That's not you, is it? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] Why can you instrumentalize yourself with such expressions by any consultant? But I've got a suspicion. Someone said: The flower doesn't do this alone in Vienna, now you have to run out, be so good and say: Vienna has a problem! [[Cheerfulness and applause with SPÖ and NEOS.]] And what's the Gerstl doing? – He comes out with a poster: And the Emperor said! [[Cheerfulness with SPÖ and NEOS.]] – No human has seen what Emperor said, the poster was impossible at all – but good. [[Cheerfulness and applause with SPÖ and NEOS.]] Mr Mahrer, I have been in Parliament for seven years. It's not really long, but believe me, every year I hear from every security spokesman of the ÖVP, from the coalition partners, from the responsible ministers of the interior: We'll have 1,500 more cops! 2,000! Who offers more? We already have 4,000 more sites – and we still do not have them! We don't even have the first 1,500! Mr Bürstmayr, you may not have heard my speech because you felt that there was no one to thank the one-and-a-half million foreigners who live in our country. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] I'm sure of that! I have called for respect for these, and I have said that these people who live in our country also maintain our system and are system-relevant. You have not lost a word in your speech about the Ministry of the Interior or about the budget, have you? I fully support the efforts and assistance of our police in Greece. That must be. But that should have been the case, Minister of the Interior, when Prime Minister Tsipras called. That was a socialist Prime Minister. He had no help at the time, neither from the then Foreign Minister Short nor from the Minister for the Interior of the ÖVP. He's been abandoned! And the conditions that now exist on the islands have also existed three or four years ago. But there was the Prime Minister socialist. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Now is a party friend of your Prime Minister – and we are out! But I'm really glad we're doing this with our cops. They also told beautiful stories about Cobra officials who said at the border – that was really touching, also touched me if someone didn't hear it; most of them didn't hear it - - - that the Turkish border officials said to our Cobra officials - - The story was the: [[Abg. Michael Hammer: How was the layer really?]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: What was the layer like now?]] What are you doing here, that's not your country? – I know the story! [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Well, how was the layer?]] And our cobra officer said: Here's Austria too! – That was very touching, and that is also good. Whether Austria is there, however, should not lie in who is a prime minister in this country. I also expect your support if it is a socialist Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e28561	I would like to thank you for the contribution, which may be humorous at a later hour. As the last speaker today, Deputies Stocker – perhaps also a humorous contribution to the end, so that you can sleep with a good feeling. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e28592	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Much has now been said about the security needs of the population and also about the uncertainties of budget creation. I think we all agree that no one wanted these uncertainties, especially not the Minister of the Interior, and you have to stop working with what is present. One thing is already remarkable and also to hold: Despite all budgetary resources Irrespectives are clearly not saved in the personnel offensive and the number of planning posts is increased. Even if my previous speaker doesn't believe: An increase of 1 191 will be planned for 2020 and 1 136 planning posts will be added by 2023. This means that the presence of the police is increased, and this, of course, has a direct impact on the security of the population. [[Abg. Loacker:... emotional policy! So much feeling!]] When we look at the statistics, we see that the objective of effectiveness is overcrowded, Mr Loacker. We have adopted a very high target of 90 percent of the population, which indicates that we feel “very secure” and“ rather secure. ” In doing so, we reach 93 percent and have planned 95 percent as the target for the next time. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say: For me, it is amazing that the Vienna election campaign, carried by you, Mr. Einwallner, is in this House, and is called Viennabashing, and that you are concerned about our Minister of the Interior and above all about the functions he has performed before his ministerial activity. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross]] The elders in your group will remember Interior Minister Blecha. Ask what the previous one was! Some will remember that your party was once so proud to have a central secretary. It is also true that the Federal Chancellor chooses the Minister of the Interior rather than the opposition, and he has chosen an excellent Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e28634	There is no more word for this. The discussions on this subject have thus ended. I thank the Minister of the Interior for his presence and explanations. I'll interrupt the meeting tomorrow, Wednesday, 9 a.m. Negotiations will continue with subheadings 34, 41 and 43. The sitting was suspended. [[23:22:13]] [[The meeting was held on Tuesday, 26 May. ==References====External links== May 2020, resumed at 9.05 a.m.]] [[09:05:10]] Continued the meeting: 9.05 a.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e28687	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I welcome you and the media representatives, as well as our representatives, and See you at home in front of the TV sets welcome! I'll take the 32. Meeting of the National Council, which I interrupted last night, reopened. Members Kira Grünberg and Josef Muchitsch are reported to be prevented for today's session. I announce that ORF 2 will transfer the meeting live by 1 p.m. ORF III will be transferred to the meeting by 7.15 p.m. and will then be transmitted to the TV library for comments. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e28728	The day-block speaking time for today’s day of 9 “Vienna hours” as well as the division of today’s discussions are known to you. We continue the budget consultation. [[09:06:03]] UG 34: Innovation and Technology (Research) UG 41: Mobility UG 43: Climate, Environment and Energy
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e28770	We start with Subdivisions 34, Innovation and Technology, 41, Mobility, as well as 43, Climate, Environment and Energy. A joint debate is taking place on this matter. I warmly welcome the Minister of State and the Minister of State. Mr Stöger, to whom I am speaking, has been mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e28798	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen here in the hall and at home! When we talk about mobility, I share in principle the objectives described in this budget chapter. It is about making transport more environmentally friendly, i.e. massively strengthening investment in public transport. It is a question of bringing freight from the road to the rails; the same applies to passenger transport, but this is particularly important in the field of freight transport. As we go, we have expected some of the Greens to do, we have expected some of the government's statements and therefore this budget, because we have to start by drawing up what we say in the budget. That's where I'm missing a little bit of the ambition. I ask quite specifically: What expansion of the rail is shown in this budget? What is included in this plan, which was not already included in the programme by Federal Minister Leichtfried? I'll ask you the next question: How can we help our service providers, the Austrian Federal Railways – I thank all the employees and Employees who have maintained traffic for us even now during the crisis – ensure that a pre-tax law establishes a framework plan from 2020 to 2025 and is also financially secured? When does this law come? Let's get to another point: We are affected by the Covid crisis, and there is the possibility of doing something for the economy in particular in this chapter. My question is: Where do I see that? What is the budget position under which there is something for more buses? How can we compact the clock in bus traffic? The announcement was: Each place should be reached once an hour. How is this shown in this budget? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] When does a higher frequency come? When is an expansion coming in this area? Web form: Where's the transport billion? I would have another question: How to deal with the full electrification of the railways? That's not what I see in the budget. Another important question from my point of view: Where did you picture the safeguarding of jobs in Austrian aviation? Where do you see that in this budget? In conclusion, perhaps one more request and question about mobility: In mobility, people recognize their freedom, and I ask you: What's going to be Do you do so that people can make a cross-border holiday in the summer and thus live their mobility and also their holiday mobility?
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e28852	Mr Lukas Hammer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e28876	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Good morning! Since I spoke about the climate budget yesterday, I would like to focus today on the budget for cycling, as regards which both the environmental budget and the transport budget really have a quantum leap, a tenfold increase in resources. About half of all car rides in Austria, whether to shop, to take the children to kindergarten or to school, or to drive to work, are so short that they can also be returned by bike. The VCÖ has predicted that almost half of all car rides are shorter than 5 kilometres, and we now have to ask ourselves why people prefer to get into the car than to take the wheel. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] The answer in many cases is: because people are afraid because there are no safe cycle paths. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] So if we want not only the brave to ride by bike, but also families and children, and this on their daily paths, then we need not only to make cycling-friendly laws, but also to invest in safe cycle paths. In the government programme, we have undertaken to double the share of bicycle traffic. We want more than twice as many people to take the bike over the next few years, on their daily paths and not just to the Heurigen or along the Danube – this is also beautiful, but it really is about the daily paths. It's not from heaven. I lived in Brussels for some time and came back to Vienna ten years ago. At that time, only a few were driving the bike. Now the share of cycling in Brussels has doubled, not because people have come up with it, that it is so nice to ride the bike, but because it was created for cycling and invested in cycle paths. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The advantages of cycling are known. Especially now, cycling simply has multiple benefits, even for the health system. Cycling itself is healthy. It brings less serious accidents, because simply fewer cars are on the go. Even now in the Corona crisis, we have seen that many people have switched to the wheel, many people have bought new wheels. Cycling is also suitable to relieve, for example, the public in the cities at the edge of the day and avoid full buses or subways. Cycling – I don't need to mention it here – of course also has enormous benefits for climate protection. So we need more bike paths, more safe bike paths. Which ingredients does it require? – First of all, we need funding – we talk about these today – and we need the political will. At the time of the financing, I would say that in recent years, whether the blue or red transport minister was, the federal government has held back, in order to express it politely. That's changing now, and it's changing massively. This budget provides for tenfold support for active mobility, i.e. cycling and walking. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the political will for the construction of cycle paths and bicycle infrastructure, I still hope for insight on some of them. In Vienna or in other cities of Austria it is like this: Every time a cycle path is built, somehow the automobile emergency is called out and the world's downfall is addressed with miles of congestion, which will not take place anyway, and you somehow always have the feeling that you want to build a toxic waste dump in the city and not just a few meters of cycle path. In other cities, we see that, so to speak, the general discourse is already much further, including among social democratic mayors. I would like that in Vienna sometimes. Paris, for example, has built 650 kilometers of new cycle paths during the Corona era. Brussels, Paris, Bogotá, New York: New cycle paths are created everywhere and we see it. The economists among you know this: The offer creates demand for cycle paths. I would like us in Austria to take cycling to a new level, including the importance of the bike as a transport, not only as a means of leisure or sports, but also to redistribute the public space for the benefit of cyclists and footpaths. I hope that in future we can all work together in the federal government, but also in the countries and cities, in the country, in the municipalities. In any case, we now have the necessary budget resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e28952	Mr Deimek is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e28973	Good morning, Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me another sentence to my previous speaker: Dear colleague Hammer, I doubt that the commuters, who are commuting from Burgenland to Vienna, from the Waldviertel to Vienna, from the Mühlviertel to Linz and from the Salzkammergut to Wels, are now looking forward to the expansion of the bike paths, but only by 300 million euros, not by the billion, but by 300 million euros instead of the neighbourhood billion. I don't think that Pendler will travel 50 kilometers per route by bike, just because the greens imagine it that way. I would like to focus on research funding in today's speech and start with a quote: A research promotion law brings reliability and strengthens confidence – quote –; Johannes Hahn, 2009. – Since then, some of this knowledge of Mr. Hahn may have been lost. In recent years, there has been the objective of an R&D ratio of 3.76 percent of GDP, of which a third was financed by the public authorities. In recent years, we have been moving very well in this direction. There was a doubling of R&D expenditure from 2005 to 2019, and the ratio was increased from 2.3 per cent to just over 3 per cent, to 3.19 per cent. So, and now the Corona crisis happened with all these signs that are supposed to make us aware of what is important for Austria. Tourism is on the ground because we have banned it. The industry has worked, and it can only work and produce well where it can bring new products, good new products, which are better than the competitors, to the market. It needs research and development – a product development that deserves this name as well – and of course it costs money. The state should support the economy and industry. If, however, you stress this again and again only in Sunday's speeches, if you only say in Sunday's speeches how important the industry is, if you bring the representatives of industry into Parliament here, but politics is quite another thing if you screw back public funds, then you have to wonder: What's going on in this Republic?- Oh, my God! In concrete terms, under Minister Hofer, a research promotion law was negotiated with a concrete path. In the transitional period with Minister Reichhardt all parties were for this. Funnyly, the representative of the ÖVP, colleague Niss Mitterbauer, has turned all this away from her better knowledge, but just for a party-tactic reason, since our dear Mr. Federal Chancellor could not proclaim the blessing – and that is the disgraceful, dear ÖVP! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You know exactly what the economy needs, and you always act against it if you can't drive the pearls and laurels yourself. That is disgraceful, that is ugly, and that is absolutely not to be represented for the industry. I would therefore like to ask you once again and also to put forward a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] You can once show that you also act according to your conscience and according to your knowledge and not from party tactics. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[9:20]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e29100	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Ottenschlager is speaking on behalf of the PPE Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e29125	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we are now discussing, among other things, the chapter on mobility, and this is, of course, a very essential chapter. In principle, most of the objectives of the government programme are already reflected in this budget, and from my point of view, there are three main objectives at the moment. The first is: We secure mobility for all people in our country and try to step by step to further attract the offer. The second goal is essentially in the current situation: Through these investments, we provide economic and employment impulses for local companies. Thirdly, We are taking important measures in the direction of ecologizing transport in Austria. This shows that thesis, economy and ecology can also be developed in a consistent way, as they can be found again. If, for example, I think of investment in rail and rail infrastructure development, this also has a direct, positive impact on local businesses. There is also a package that has been negotiated by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, who now prefers some of the projects to be used in this situation to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria in particular, thus ensuring jobs accordingly. I have already mentioned it, of course we pay great attention to the further expansion of public transport in the city and in the country. We do not want to attract a two-class society, but really everything that is possible. There are very good programmes which can also be read from the figures and figures in this budget. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Furthermore, it is of course still a concern to us to make a contribution to bringing more freight transport from the road to the rails. Austria is still a pioneer country, also thanks to the measures taken by some of your predecessors, but of course we will try to continue to force this shift in the coming years. This is not always easy, the rail is not as flexible as the road, but through targeted measures, which can also be found in the budget, through support from the federal government and the countries, we will succeed in continuing the right course. An amount of more than EUR 2.4 billion will be invested annually in the rail infrastructure alone – also in the coming years. Austria is also a pioneer country in the European Union. Especially on the west line of Vienna–Linz–Salzburg – in order to represent this perhaps a bit symbolic – an attractive offer on the track shows that the users will then accept it and, for example, switch from the car to the train accordingly. This is what we want, for example. continue to expand on the southern route, so that this changeover can work in a user-friendly way as well. Mrs Bundesminister, Mr State Secretary, I would also like to thank your employees for these negotiations, for, I believe, very balanced budgets in this area. I would now like to take the time to thank all the employees in the entire transport sector who have made a real contribution in recent months to the fact that our security of supply is the way we have been able to experience it in recent months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e29186	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e29207	Mr President. Good morning, Mrs. Minister! Good morning, Secretary of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I would like to talk about the environmental budget, about the UG 43 and start with a thought experiment so that you can understand from what perspective I look at the environmental budget a bit far. Imagine we'd talk about financing our schools and accept that every second child gets a place in school, or imagine we'd talk about health policy and every third patient gets a bed in the hospital if he needs it! At the moment, we are looking at environmental policy. We accept that our political action – and I am really talking about political action – supports the death of species, does not sufficiently combat climate change, and we say: The budget presented makes it less difficult than the last budget and also less than the previous budget. In other areas, we would not accept this socially. I also believe that people in our country do not want to accept it. If one believes in the relevant surveys, there is a broad majority in Austria to respect and finance the value of our nature, the value of our environment and to act massively and decisively against climate change. However, this budget does not support majority voting, but this budget is trying to be a little better than the last budget. That's exactly where you forgive in double Make a chance: If the government of ÖVP and Greens does not share this perspective that the policy approach must be that one does not damage the fact that our nature, our biodiversity is preserved accordingly or that we are re-enhanced and that climate change is firmly opposed, then there is another opportunity to be given to bring a benefit to people from the existing economic and labour market crisis. You just have to make very specific thoughts: It will leave the economic crisis a changed landscape, precisely where change has already taken place, where we were in the process of breaking down in our energy system, where in our understanding of mobility we were in the process of breaking, where we were in the process of breaking on the question of circular economy and many other things. There are no complete figures, but if we think about how our future will look forward and how we may be able to get into this future more quickly, then there are topics on the way that we can really take up, for example, an advanced expansion of photovoltaics. Da_te there are very specific studies from Germany, which have been converted by the WU for Austria and which say that if we achieve our goals in the field of photovoltaics alone in the past, we will create 200 000 new jobs regionally. We are currently talking about a labour market crisis of 1.3 million people in short-term work and 530 000 people in unemployment, and we are giving this budget the chance to create 200,000 new jobs; at least this is the current view. If you go further and say that the government has decided that it wants to be climate neutral by 2040 – that is what we have supported as NEOS – then that means that you need a path to make all buildings by 2040, as far as it is possible with monument protection and all the drums, really climate-neutral. This means that we have to significantly increase the rate of thermal rehabilitation. I do not think so in this respect in the budget. If one were to do this, that would allow another ten thousand jobs in the regional area. A third area – and this has to be recognized – has been expanded by the government, is the renewal of heating systems, first of all oil heating, but not just these. There are also many regional jobs created. Why is this area so important? – Because it does not work exclusively through state grants, but because every policy we take has a lever to enable private investment. In other words, a small use of means of taxation actually increases the area we have at our level. But if we go back to the environment and think more widely about mobility and the circular economy, then we will immediately come to a second topic: Let's create these jobs of the future! If, therefore, we did not have such a budget that we accepted that we would continue to damage our environment, our nature, then there would not be those people we actually need – who would have to accept these jobs. It therefore took – and in my view this would also be a chance in the current crisis – a qualification offensive. There are many unemployed people – and I also know very personally people who are currently affected by the crisis of unemployment – who would accept a qualification offensive that is now, for example, news technicians and could be trained as an installer for photovoltaic systems. There is a great field of the future, and this is exactly where the crisis could be countered accordingly. From the perspective of environmental protection, investment in the future is needed, and they are missing in this budget. I expect something else to be presented in the next budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e29266	Mrs. Geessler has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e29287	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! The last months have been and are still a challenging time. You have called for a lot from all of us, and you, too, have called for a lot of things to be done in the House. But they have also brought us to the fore, which means crisis, how crisis feels. We are getting hold of the corona crisis with endurance, with consequence, with science and hopefully also soon with a vaccination. The climate crisis, ladies and gentlemen, is only before us, and once the climate crisis is there, the state of crisis becomes a permanent state. There is also no vaccination against the climate crisis. It is therefore all the more important that we now quickly set the course towards climate protection. This government programme has set a very ambitious goal: Climate neutrality up to 2040. It is a goal that we are working on before the Corona crisis, during the Corona crisis and – yes – also on the way out of the Corona crisis with high intensity – I am still coming back to it, because with the climate protection budget 2020, the budget that is now in place, we are taking a first step, we are making first important choices. What does this budget mean? – More money in renewable energies, more money for active mobility, more money for public transport, more money for climate-friendly heating. Yes, with this budget we are investing in our future. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I would like to be right to all those who have emphasized in their speeches the importance of investing in climate protection right now. I am convinced that climate protection is the best economic programme and, in particular, that is why we are developing a pillar of the packages that we are now developing. Why? – Climate protection means local value added. Climate protection creates jobs, creates jobs in the region and creates sustainable jobs. Many people in Austria are currently worried, are in short work, are unemployed, have to suffer loss of personal income for other reasons. It is a matter of policy that we give these people security – and that is what we achieve with climate protection, because there is the double dividend. When we expand the railway infrastructure, 80 percent of the investments in Austrian small and medium-sized enterprises go. The photovoltaic system installs an electrician from the region. The heating replaces the installer from the place. These are sustainable jobs, which is exactly what we need, namely the double dividend from a stable economy with safe jobs and a good future. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Oberrauner.]] For this we will continue to take control of money. For this we will also continue to work on economic packages. I would also like to thank the environmental and climate speakers who followed an invitation yesterday to bring in ideas and proposals for these future, yet to be developed and to be developed economic pacts. I would nevertheless like to return to the current budget and briefly highlight some of the pillars and the priorities of this budget. Mobility, UG 41: 2.4 billion euros go to the rail infrastructure of the future so that we can all be even better, even more climate friendly mobile. This is my knowledge of the highest amount of infrastructure investment in an Austrian budget. Another EUR 847 million – 91 million more than last year – is going into the project to strengthen the public transport offer so that more trains can drive in the future, not just in the agglomerations, but throughout Austria. We invest in the private railways and in the urban regional railways. I can assure you that the budget is increasing significantly. There was 33 million euros in the budget for the private railways in 2019. This now increases in perspective to 36 or 70 million euros in 2021; and we now want to achieve a significant increase in the next few years with a single economic package. It is precisely this priority that we need and that is reflected in this budget and in the economic packages in perspective. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] However, we are not only strengthening public transport, we are also strengthening efforts in the field of e-mobility, e-cars, charging infrastructure, and e-drived heavy-duty wheels. I am also pleased that we are for the first time explicit represent active mobility in this budget. It has been mentioned: It is not only a climate-friendly mode of movement, it is also a health-enhancing mode of transport – not only in Corona times, but also in Corona times, where active mobility also helps to relieve public transport. Not only in the city, but also in the country cycling is a way of moving the future. All federal states have set ambitious shift targets from individual mobility to active mobility, so they are about significant increases in shares. With this budget, we are laying the ground floor that we can also go back to cycle road infrastructure development – by the way, one of the most cost-effective, efficient and in terms of job creations, which is now important in this economic programme. Many things have already been said: Rail freight transport is another important priority in this area. The funds also rise significantly. Railway transport remains an important political objective, especially in freight transport. Of course I'm glad: The funds for metro expansion in Vienna are also further secured in this budget. All these are important steps for the mobility system of the future. Comfortable, manageable, climate friendly – we will of course continue to work on it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to address the UG 43 very briefly: Climate, environment, energy. The budget of the UG 43 – that will not have gone away from you – is increasing strongly. We now have a significant increase of over 200 million euros in 2020 – also in perspective. For the first time, the federal financial framework for climate protection has been expanded for years. That's good and important. There are very important priorities here. 142.7 million euros are planned for the project Raus uit Oil and Thermal Rehabilitation, so that our buildings will also be fit for the fight against climate change. It was mentioned: This is one of the most central factors in climate protection. This budgeting is more than a doubling compared to last year. Domestic environmental support increases from EUR 70 million to EUR 90 million. These are projects that generate many more investments. The projects created and secured around 5,400 jobs in Austria in 2019. We are increasing the funding of the Climate Fund – the Climate Fund is a central pillar, a central institution for the implementation of climate policy – which, on the one hand, allows a stronger focus on photovoltaic support – and on the other hand, in the field of research projects, an even greater link to the objectives, projects and needs arising from the government programme. Of course, I would like to address UG 34 very briefly – the budgets of innovation, technology and large parts of the applied research in Austria are in my ministry: I believe that just during the Corona crisis, we have seen how important a scientific basis for our decision-making is. What it can contribute to political decision-making, we will also do so in the fight against the climate crisis in the innovation field, in the field of expertise, in further development, which is why there is additional funding. The federal financial framework, i.e. the upper limit of payment, remains stable over the years, but we focus on additional resources, especially in two Ipcei projects, namely batteries and microelectronics – both contributions to energy efficiency and to the conversion of our energy system. I'd like to finish. Ladies and gentlemen, the climate crisis is the major issue of our time. The climate disaster is about to come, we feel the effects are becoming more and more evident. We just published the climate status report yesterday, for the first time also with evaluations for all nine federal states. I really invite you to look at these upsetting and moving data once! We're in a dry spring. Precipitation levels are well below the long-term average, and agriculture in particular feels very intense. We experience more and more strong weather events, droughts, heavy rains and other extreme weather events. The water level at Lake Neusiedler is on a record low. If this goes on, we will not be able to swim in the Neusiedler See in July, or be on the road with any sailboats or anything else. That means, yes, climate protection is a major challenge, is a great task. With this budget we make the first step, we create a trend turnaround. Yes, it needs more – for that I will also use all my energies and all my power in the next years, because we have much ahead. This budget, however, sets the right course: We are going on the right path, with more investment in climate protection, into a good future in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e29405	Mrs Rössler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e29427	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, on the screens! What are the main objectives of the environmental budget? – Perhaps the idea is always that only a lot of money produces a lot of good measures. At the environmental budget, I say, it's mixed. It is not just the money, it is above all the ambition and it is the framework that we need to create in order to give the environmental interests a little more strength. This is where the impact objectives, as formulated in the environmental budget, work best to raise the eye's eye, which is the most urgent action. Innovative environmental and energy technologies have been mentioned. This concerns, among other things, the promotion of good environmental standards in production, but also in connection with social standards. This means, however, as close as possible to production, regionality, i.e. low transport distances, which also makes a contribution to climate protection. Production, resource consumption, working conditions and transport are therefore some important aspects. Second point: Where are the greatest levers in reducing greenhouse gas emissions? – Apart from innovative technologies, apart from the transition to renewable energies, it is of course the efficiency increase. We are always talking about the expansion of energy production, but we also need to realize that halving total energy consumption by 2040 is the goal. We will not do everything if we always think only in development scenarios, especially not exclusively with the expansion of renewable energies; we must become much more efficient. The main levers in the private sector are mobility, living, but also nutrition. These are not things that one buys or invests in, because of course it is about framework conditions to see what it takes for the changeover to renewable energy and climate-friendly mobility. It's about creating the offer. There are the communities of our most important partners. The municipalities determine where areas are dedicated, where the nearest public transport stop is; the link between spatial planning, mobility, climate protection and energy consumption is therefore extremely important. That means we all need in the boat! We need the municipalities and the countries much stronger than before, we need cooperation. In the field of environmental protection, we first need cooperation to use the right resources in the right places. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Third lever: Biodiversity. This again concerns the issue of land consumption, as the indicators are far too high. Land consumption reduces our agricultural areas, reduces the recovery value of the landscape, but above all reduces the biodiversity very dramatically, also here in Austria. What's the most important lever? – Private land, but of course also public land, and finally we must also bring agriculture into the boat and make an agricultural policy that allows for extensive management and conservation of species on agricultural land. This must be promoted, not only by legislative measures, but also by agriculture, so to speak, as a partner in the boat. Fourth most important lever: sustainable use of resources – this is the subject of procurement. Sustainable procurement is a huge lever in public procurement, at all levels of administrative action. In this respect, the Sustainable Procurement Action Plan is already in preparation. The second important aspect is the topic of the circular economy: longer life of consumer goods, reparability, a circular economy package, which is also provided for in the upcoming amendment to the Waste Management Act, and the topic of food waste. We overlook – you can't buy it, you need framework conditions, and you also need a change of consciousness and awareness raising – the amount of food waste along the entire production chain is incredibly high. There is a huge potential to reduce these – not only in production, not only in trade, but also very much in households. We have huge amounts of food waste, wastes from edible food in household waste – unfortunately! Therefore, it does not only need the budget, it needs above all a dedicated environmental policy and at the head of it a dedicated minister of the environment with a superministerial. I wish you, Mrs Minister, the Elan and the patience, but also the endurance it needs.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e29488	Mrs Hammerschmid is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e29509	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, watchers in front of the television screens! Research, innovation, development – the media focus has been very focused on these issues in recent weeks and so big, I think, as never at all – at least I can't remember. This is a recognition that the universities, the colleges, the research companies, the entire non-university research sector have really achieved for decades – now this recognition is finally there. Why is she there? – Because research, innovation, science can develop and deliver the solutions to combat this corona crisis. We read daily in the newspapers the data from medical studies, from virologists, from epidemiologists, and the people and politics in this country are eagerly waiting for us to get a medication or vaccine to escape this corona pandemic. What we're not talking about, these are the institutions that provide these research achievements. I am very pleased that in the last few weeks I have been able to read three company names again and again in the media, which today lead large, trend-setting research projects and cooperations. These include the companies Apeiron, Themis and Apeptico. These are three companies that I was able to finance at my time as Head of Technology and Innovation at Austria Wirtschaftsservice GmbH and accompany on the first steps. Apeiron is probably the best known company of Josef Penninger, who was able to start a multicentric international study with an active substance from his research pipeline, and it is very much hoped that this will work. The company Themis is already testing a vaccine based on the research technology platform that has been developed, and investors have already invested over 100 million euros before the Corona crisis. Yesterday, Merck Sharp & Dohme bought this company for an unannounced sum: This is research, technology and innovation made in Austria. Apeptico coordinates an EU-funded project for the search for a corona drug with a clinical study also here at the Med-Uni Vienna. What this shows us is quite simple: Research promotion works. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Because we put our hopes in these companies ten years ago, because we invested the first euro in these companies with Seedfinancing, we are now so far that these companies can market medications quickly, quickly and efficiently. Research funding works, Mrs. Minister, not only in the field of medicine, but also in the areas of climate change, new technologies, green technologies. These are exactly your fields, whose meaning you have also stressed. It needs more money, it needs more effort, from there the solutions can come. So I would really ask and motivate you: Fight – that was also the subject before – for this long-awaited research funding law connected with a growth path! What we now see in the budget is not a growth path. We don't have the Research Finance Act yet – this was sent in review in summer so we can be quick then, but we're still waiting for it – and the growth path is not given either. The few millions more go to the Ipcei projects, and yes, that's good, that must be the same, but that's not what I want for research funding and research funding in Austria. I beg you You are competent: Stay there, put your focus on it, because all the measures you have now put forward with a lot of passion, there is only because research and innovation are in it and because we can build on this knowledge and these achievements also in climate change, in these technologies! Sufficient teaching is needed, the growth path – I have already said – needs sufficient research funding, multi-annual planning safety for agencies and autonomy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e29564	The honourable Member has been informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e29587	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! I believe that these subdivisions concerning research, innovation, mobility, transport and, of course, environmental and climate policy are very good in showing the nature of this sector and how important these issues are interconnected. Not least, the period of the Corona crisis is now at the end as well as the first sketches of the economic researchers – where do you get out of this crisis? – the most necessary topics, namely the new technologies, especially the issue of climate protection, in order to revitalize the economy and also to keep an absolute eye on climate and environmental policies. We have all thought that Corona will cover everything, and ultimately climate and environmental policy, which concerns the fundamental issues of the population, will no longer be the focus. However, surveys show very clearly that the population is still very much aware of what is happening in climate change, and that we must act in a massive way. The last governments have been working ahead and have already taken many steps in this regard, and I am very, very happy that we have now been able to increase the budget again in these areas: Oil boiler exchange, away from fossil energy sources, innovations also in thermal renovation. It is essential to start appropriate incentives and take the population with them. But we'll see: If we revive the economy, we need areas such as photovoltaics and renewable energy expansion in order to maintain a total economic value in Austria. Of course, this path will be followed by the Energy Development Act to be drawn up. I believe that we will create and secure jobs in the future, but above all we will also bring prosperity and economic success through environmental and climate policy. Networking the economy and the environment is well documented by the turquoise-green government. This is almost symbolic of our cooperation and is now absolutely the focus of this budget. So we're on a very, very good way. Mrs Bundesminister, I congratulate you on this budget! I think we are going together into a future that will allow us all to reach a great deal for this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e29620	Mr Kassager has been mentioned on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e29642	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear Secretary of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Bundesminister, you also have great experience, although not so much in political communication, but because of your professional past in marketing. With this in mind, I have to say: They do this very, very good and sell it very, very good. What I like less is that you too are now entering this policy of anxiety by starting your statement by saying that we are now in the Corona crisis, but the climate crisis is much worse. – We reject this policy of fear-making, which is difficult for our country, because fear kills the soul, and I believe that we have done great damage to the Austrian soul in the last months. That's not necessary, but you're doing it. I don't like that personally! They have also announced that a lot of money will be taken into their hands. The colleague mentioned earlier that a symbiosis of the environment and the economy is good and that a lot of money will be taken into consideration. My question is: Whose money is it that you take control of? – This is the taxpayers' money! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's what we're already at the budget. In this context too, I must say: You've been a good negotiator. There are significant increases in some areas. The settlement water industry is obviously too regional for you, which you have given to Colleague Köstinger to get perhaps more money, as you have also received for the Green Climate Fund. They have essentially also defined the objectives, and these differ in the energy sector – and you know that too – not particularly from the government programme that the ÖVP has developed with FPÖ 2017. The innovation: You have now defined a path, but I can already predict that this expansion path is a marketing air balloon. This is not going to happen for various reasons; we can see it now. We have really lost a lot of time for very urgent things, and I would really like the decision of the Renewable Development Act now. This was more or less finished in the summer of 2019, in fact more than less than done. Why is it still not there? We now have mid-2020, and you know that the industry is waiting for it. The industry wants planning security. In particular, I address the issue of net reserves; I also receive calls from the industry. Why is it always referred to: We do the big throw or the big package!? – I think there are things that are really very, very urgent. Freedom of climate and energy policy is always carried by a balanced triangle of objectives, namely: Renewable, security of supply and – not to mention – cost-effectiveness and durability. Someone has to pay for this, namely the eco electricity regime. Now it's the so-called end-users. Who is this? – These are households, but also commerce, businesses and industry. We are in favour of a balanced balance between these three objectives, not an over-examination of a goal. Whatever we do not want is to put the Austrian economy at risk. Again: The development goals and the transition to renewables are an important issue, not at all a question, but that must be done with measure and purpose and not overrun. I think it is particularly dangerous that, by means of appropriate regulations, restrictions, regulations et cetera, the Extensively to the extent that it is used to distribute the traditional economy and industry from our country. – I think it is very, very careful to deal with this. By the way, these bills that photovoltaics create 200 000 jobs, I would also like to ask in principle about plausibility. I am interested in manual, attackable jobs, for example Voest, industrial jobs in Austria – I can attack them, they are also not subject to subsidies and make an important contribution to the addition of value in Austria and to the fact that this money, which you then take into your hands, is still there. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] – It may be claped. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So please, Mrs. Federal Minister: Let us now come from the phase of the very beautiful announcements into the phase of implementation, especially in the Renewable Extension Act and in the KWK Act, that is urgently necessary! Leave Please do not forget the path of a balanced climate and energy policy Security of supply, do not forget the cost-effectiveness and durability, do not exaggerate it with the bashing of the drivers, do not exaggerate it with the bashing of the evil gas, for example! We will need the gas network completely, very urgently for the energy transition, subject of sector coupling. You know – the Secretary of State has known me for a long time – that I am very, very open to good, reasonable talks, knowing that we need a two-thirds majority for some things, so the opposition's consent is also necessary. We have done this very, very well in the last legislative period. I would just like to point out that this funding of 36 million euros for photovoltaics was the basis of an all-party request, in which the liberals, too, were very, very strongly pushed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e29726	Mr Litschauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e29747	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TVs and via live stream! I have to change my beginning a little, because if I hear from the liberal side that this is being worked with fear, I say: I would like to be involved if we are to eliminate the fear of politics, but I have a bit of a problem with your group. I remember that it was you who, many years ago, initiated a popular desire against the Temelín AKW – you are not afraid to work with fear. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Hafenecker and Mr Hauser.]] When the government was there later, however, it lacked concrete steps. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] [[Abg. Kassinger:... AKW Temelín...!]] [[Abg. Belakovich:... Atomic energy...!]] It is a very dangerous - – yes, but you have played with fear, have done nothing during your government participation. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I know you don't want to hear that now. [[Abg. Kassinger:... we have no problem!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Deimek.]] I would like to take this opportunity to thank, in particular, the volunteers, the environmental organisations and the anti-atomic organizations, who spend millions of volunteer hours and bring themselves there. I myself have been active in the anti-atomic scene for 20 years, out there, when the Melker Agreement was negotiated here in this House, I myself demonstrated and drew attention to the problem. For me, it was very moving to be praised in the same house. This fight against the nuclear lobby and these nuclear power plants is, as it were, a very personal concern to me, and we have a very big problem – Dukovany, Temelín, Krško, Mochovce and as they are all called, are certainly problems to combat. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Prince.]] There it is, I believe, also important that we take this seriously and implement it together. This budget also includes 0.5 million euros, so that we can provide this support for these nuclear power plants that are close to the border. I have also been very intensive in this anti-atomic policy 20 years ago, and I also have to say that, while Austria was still a power exporting country in 2000, the import of electricity has increased in the following years. This has indeed weakened our own position in anti-atomic policy. [[call to the FPÖ.]] And if you say that we are talking about security of supply, I would remind you that the import of electricity does not increase security of supply, and that is why we have to oppose it. It is therefore very important that we reach our 100 percent target for the expansion of renewable energy. I would also point out that you do not find all these measures in this budget. The Renewable Development Act, for example, will ensure that we reach 100 percent renewable energy via the eco-electric power levy, through the eco-electric pot, and then we have other funding resources that are also necessary. We will also need other measures to achieve this goal of the energy transition, not only the Austrian budget, but also other pots and other tools. We will also need to raise awareness and take away our population accordingly. It will be a matter of motivating the people to take part in this energy transition. There needs to be education, it needs motivation, and it will be shown that it is not the biggest goal to demand the largest number for any single measure for the budget, but in fact it is very important who can best take the population with it in this energy transition, who can best motivate it and move forward as an example. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why it is very important to me that there are other initiatives that become cross-border, which inform, for example, the Waldviertler Energy Tribal Table, which we have set up for information education. I am also glad that these initiatives provide for money for energy partnerships. I would really invite everyone: Let us also introduce ourselves beyond Austria so that this energy transition can succeed!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e29860	Mr Margreiter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e29881	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Estimated Secretary of State! Dear citizens in front of the screens! High house! Subdivision 41 is no longer referred to with transport, but with mobility, and that is a good thing, because it is about mobility. Mobility is a basic need for people, I would like to say, a fundamental right for people. Our lifestyle has changed in such a way that today a certain degree of mobility is simply required to survive. It is about basic care, but it is also about the climate impact on mobility and the issue of mobility on climate issues. Now we have a mobility budget, which is very high, with 4 billion euros one of the biggest sub-divisions. We have already today of numbers, tenfolding and, and, and heard, only the numbers are one, but the content, the substance, what is behind it, is the other, and I already have some critical note, Mrs Federal Minister. It is true that these sub-divisions are not only a purely numerical work, but are also under-fed in terms of content with the so-called impact objectives. The mobility budget has three objectives: First, the raising of traffic safety – okay, gifted, we all want – and secondly, the safeguarding of the mobility of people, goods and goods – to which I am still speaking separately – and thirdly the gender equality, that is, the gender issue in the field of mobility. If you look at these objectives in detail, then you can see in the objective of action two, ensuring mobility, that the words cyclists, bikes, pedestrians don't happen at all – with the goals one and three anyway. If you read that, you smell the combustion engine. Against this background, the figures that have been mentioned here and which are so proud of, because they are increases, already a little narrow, I must say that there is a lot to be done when it comes to mobility. There are a few things that include a few projects that are quite respectable, such as financing or a first funding start for the 1-2-3-Austria ticket – but with this we create demand. The question will be: Can we cover the need? There's another step to go: Even if the need for railway infrastructure and bus infrastructure is and can be met, then, in order for the mobility turnaround to succeed, it will still be necessary to shape the famous last mile – the first and the last mile – of micro-public transport. This should be mainly cycling structure, but also pedestrian traffic. Although pedestrian traffic does not have the greatest share of the mileage, it does not have the greatest share of transport. In this There is still much to be done in the field of awareness work. In my hometown, for example, in Hall in Tyrol, ÖVP-regulated, all serious things are currently being taken into consideration, because they are in the way of an extension of the crossing – so that the motorized traffic can be handled more smoothly. This is exactly what you see: There's nothing in mind about the mobility turnaround. The same applies to wheel structures: In connection with the last mile you will have to do a lot with the bike. However, in this mobility budget I miss concrete measures and concrete statements. There will be a need to take money in this regard in order to create awareness. This is a head story that has to happen, and I see relatively little from the figures that the Green Group is so proud of. [[Call to the Greens: There is ten times more money for that!]] It is really to be feared that while the 1-2-3 ticket creates a high demand, it fails to ensure that the capacity is not given and that the last mile is not covered. Of course, attention should also be paid to the fact that transport – especially motorised, but also rail – has significant environmental impacts. It is about that it would be desirable to budget these effects somewhere in order to meet them. I miss, for example, an approach to noise protection at Brenner-Eisenbahntrasse, where, according to the budget, the rolling land road is to be expanded. This is quite welcome, but the population in the Wipptal will then suffer even more from the noise of the railways, because we know that the rolling country road is particularly noisy. So it's still a lot to do. However, I stretch out my hand, the NEOS are ready to participate in the mobility turnaround, and I hope that the thoughts I wanted to give today will actually go into the concrete work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e29915	Mrs Niss is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e29936	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Dear Seers! By nothing, the relevance of research to us as much as it is now through the corona pandemic. I think everyone understands that the way out of the dilemma only succeeds with the help of research; a therapist, a vaccine is being researched. It is most gratifying and, as I believe, not surprising that Austrian science, the Austrian companies and the research institutions play well in this concert. We already heard the names: Apeptico, Apeiron, Themis, you name it. Many thanks go to the Federal Government, Ms. Minister, that 26 million euros were quickly made available in the framework of the Corona Emergence Call. These are, I think, particularly important investments in Austrian companies. It is also very gratifying that the first 16 million euros have already been allocated to 24 projects, and as far as I know, the next 10 million euros will be awarded tomorrow. Thank God, however, the Austrian research and technology landscape is diverse and consists not only of a life-science research, but we know the other strong areas: These are mobility, energy and environmental technologies, ICT, materials science and much more. We need to maintain this technology affinity, because we also know that research and innovation-intensive companies are better hit by the crisis. I believe that it is also very important that we now support companies that they invest no less in research and development in the context of this crisis, but at least equally much. It is also clear that we in Europe need to speak more strongly with one voice, simply to prove ourselves and to claim us to be against America and China. We're just gonna do that together. That is why it is particularly gratifying that the BMK budget, as well as the BMDW, provides funding for so-called important European projects – the IPCEIs – for climate-related future technologies such as battery research and microelectronics. Strengthening strengths is the motto of this federal government! Yes, of course, we need a research funding law that gives the research planning security and that aims to strengthen and regulate governance between the ministries and the research funding companies. [[Abg. Deimek: They did! But always when the ÖVP...! This is a warning...!]] But, Mr Deimek, let's stick to the truth! We did not do this at the time because Mr Kurz was unable to announce it, but we did it because it was a complex matter and because we did not want to set up legislative initiatives in the time of the transitional government. That was what we had actually agreed on. We are working with high pressure on this law. I should like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for their good cooperation. I think we don't need a deadline here, but it's important that we have a law that supports and continues to make our research, which strengthens our science and, above all, our innovative companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e29977	The honourable Member is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e29998	Mr President. Dear High House! At the beginning: Good morning! And at first I want to, no, I also have to hold on: Good climate policy is labour market policy. Meaningful climate protection creates jobs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] - Yeah, that's right. The expansion of our public transport, our regional bus, train and metro lines, all creates jobs. The thermal renovation of our homes, our schools, our district offices, all of this brings jobs, because environmental protection – that is the point – needs installers/installators, needs technicians, needs energy consultants. So you see, when all these demands, including those of the SPÖ, as regards the exchange of oil boilers, the construction of photovoltaic plants, are carried out wisely, then we create jobs. What I want to go out on is now the jumping point: This is the task of all 183 Members in the House and much more is the task of the Government. We are committed to the 523,000 people – that is the current number of those who are currently unemployed. We are simply committed to the 1.3 million people who are just in short work. Last time, the responsible minister of the EIA has said something like this: Most of the people who are in short-time work can then go back again anyway. – And what about the others? We are committed to these people! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] We need no more, but certainly no less than the largest investment package in the history of Austria in order to create jobs to boost the economy and simply stop the climate crisis. That's the point! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, I am glad when Federal Minister Geessler speaks about economic packages for climate protection and new jobs. – I believe that this is really your goal, but if only it is spoken about and announced, we do not yet save CO2, so we do not create a single job yet. The budget we are deciding today does not contain any of these economic measures, which we have been listening to for weeks at the 32 000 press conferences that we have all looked at. There is nothing in Mr Blümel's paper! On the contrary. I quote a short position from the climate budget, which says: It is to be held from 2020 to 2030 – now, ladies and gentlemen! – 15 000 jobs are created. [[Call to the Greens: Really?! 15,000!]] That's 1,500 a year! These are the figures that are actually in the budget. 1 500 a year, says the government. Greenpeace says: Only 200 000 are possible in the field of photovoltaics! So there you have to say: Pfoah! Ambitious looks different. – That’s unmistakable, that’s almost unscrupulous! When I read this, I asked myself: Is that real? That was actually my reaction. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The only positive point remains the understanding and honesty of the Federal Minister, who himself says that this is not the current figures, that one has not yet come to update that. – But seriously? This one figure in the budget could not be changed, but we should now believe in all the announcements on the economic measures.- Oh, my God! – I honestly tell you that more needs to be done, because climate protection becomes a bit bitter to the Finance Minister, and if we wait for the ÖVP Finance Minister to realize that there is a need to invest, then we are waiting a long time. No, it needs to be today, it needs now, it needs jobs in 2020 that we need to create. We are simply guilty of this – now and not later. Now I've come to the conclusion: The budget is a significant improvement compared to before, which is true, you have to say honestly. But is it a budget with which we have grown the climate crisis and the crisis in the labour market? - No, I don't. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Luke Hammer.]] Is it a budget with which we will achieve the climate objective of being 2040 CO2-neutral? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It'll need more. I address the Minister for the Environment: I offer, we offer to fight together for even more in the field of climate protection. To the Minister for Finance: Yes, I offer it to you, too, because we should finally realize that we all have to work together to create jobs through environmental protection. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e30075	Mr Weratschnig is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e30096	Mr President. Dear Federal Minister! Dear Secretary of State! If the previous governments, with the participation of SPÖ or all the previous governments, had managed to better implement the climate change objectives, then Mr President could have saved this speech today. However, this speech has needed it, ladies and gentlemen, and it needs a turquoise-green government that is now implementing the climate change objectives. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The mandate of the government, the National Council, the Federal Council, the state governments, the municipalities is quite clear: it is in transport that the objectives of climate protection are to be achieved. Yes, we are not here yet, and we still have many tasks to do, ladies and gentlemen. Those who do not believe or do not want to believe in climate change objectives: The population will become more mobile, it will need sustainable mobility in the future. Not: Traffic is life!, in the old style of road construction is needed, but mobility with innovation and resource conservation. That's what we're talking about emissions, we're talking about soil consumption, we're talking about biodiversity. These are the important objectives. Mobility, which has already been said today, is a basic need, therefore also the clear plan of implementation of the 1-2-3 ticket. With what is now paid for, for example, between Vienna and Gänserndorf, it will be possible to use bus and train throughout Austria in the future. That, ladies and gentlemen, is a quantum leap we're standing in front of. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Specific to the budget: 200 million euros more; a 6 percent increase in the budget for the ÖBB, without the economic programmes, without the 300 million euros already communicated for the coming years, plus 91 million euros for the ÖBB; plus 7 million euros for the private railways, for the first time again federal money for trams – I remember the regional railway Innsbruck and the local railway Salzburg –; decarbonisation of bus transport; Electricity of further railways using hydrogen. It's about researching and testing how we were doing in the Zillertal area. Especially from the Tyrolean point of view, I believe that the promotion of rail freight transport is very important to shift transit from road to rail. There are more mobility projects and incentives in the climate and energy funds. Ladies and gentlemen, we agree on the 2020 budget for the mobility turnaround. This has not been achieved by previous governments with their announcements. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We are committed to the weaker road users, but there are other EU countries still ahead of miles. We are working on fair conditions for the employees in the areas of bus, train and – not to mention – also the aircraft. Yes, there is a need for movement in the wages – for example, Laudamotion – and I am very clearly on the side of the union, which works for the employees. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I mentioned it in earlier speeches: The predatory capitalism of the cheap flyer is to be done by car! Mr Blümel, we support you when it comes to supporting the workers. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Last point: Without climate conditions, there will be no state aid in the future, and this will involve several companies and not just AUA State aid. There is a need for clear conditions for climate protection at Austria's site. Ladies and gentlemen, let us rise, climate-active! At this point I would like to thank those who are standing in front of Parliament's gates today, namely the Fridays for Future movement. The boys point out what we have to do in the future. The young people are making the task we have here in Parliament, in the governments around the world. We are obliged to implement these things, and I am glad that we have so much support in the government. I invite all Members to take this path. – Next stop: Mobility turnaround.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e30187	Mr Hafenecker is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e30209	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! It is always a pleasure to listen to the green speakers, you learn new things again and again. [[Abg. Stögmüller: That's it! Watch out!]] I think that is also good, but I also think it is really interesting which concepts you are using here, for example if Mr Weratschnig wants to make sure of anyone. . I do not want to know how this would be commented on would be a freeman here from the speaker's desk. The speech by Mr Litschauer was exciting, too, and I learned a lot. I did not know that the Greens are now moving up to the lawyers of the Atom Lobby and here they argue against the Temelín people's desire from the speaker's desk. The change in the sense of the Greens, who may have had to take place in recent months with the help of the ÖVP, is sensational. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] To Mr Hammer: Mr Hammer has explained to us, in his cosmopolitan speech, the advantages of cycling. – Yes, I give you the right to promote cycling, of course, but we have never closed ourselves. But I'll give you one thing to consider: You have said that most of the roads that are being laid down are less than 5 kilometers. That's right, but I'm going there, and then I'm going back, then it's 10 kilometers; and there are phenomena in Austria: It's a phenomenon called mountains, the other phenomenon is winter, and I just don't want to believe that they're going through snow, yak and ice by bike for 10 kilometers. You should consider that, too. There are not only cities, there are also marginalities. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister Weessler, you are the Federal Minister for Cycling and Railways. At first I really thought you were an expert in your field, but now I have to insist that you are actually just an ideological commissioner. What are you doing? – You’re fighting aviation, you’ve called out, and what’s much worse, you’ve also launched the inquisition against the drivers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller]] There are sabotage acts on the running band, apart from the fact that the first and only media activity you have done was that you've re-screwed down the 140s Taferls that were installed under your predecessor Hofer. [[Abg. Stögmüller:... Hofer made it! I didn't do anything else.]] [[Abg. Lausch: (in the direction of Abg. Stögmüller)... glass disc!]] They, for example, wage a war against the drivers with your colleagues and performance assistants in the Vienna city government. They produce arbitrary traffic shafts, on the Kagran bridge a temporary cycle path is installed, which causes there to be congestion where there has never been any. That's interesting, too. I don't want to know what's going on with drivers and counterparts who also pay and work taxes. To stop it, I'd like to make the nail sample. We have heard from your colleagues or from the Green Party that you are also planning to degradate the high-level roads at the speed that you want to reduce speed limits, so I would like to make a sample of nails and make a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to come to the next subject, which is the transport billion. Even there, you didn't really screw up with fame, on the contrary, you shot a really good project. You've dropped the transport billions on local transport 300 million if you can formulate it so salopp; You actually cut it off. The few remaining resources, which are still available, are used to repaint stations and perhaps to build a cycle path there and there. Mrs. Federal Minister! That wasn't the plan of the transport billions. The plan was to link rural areas with urban areas and also contribute to decarbonisation. You threw it overboard, I don't see any more that you're striving for anything in this direction. As I said, I do not understand why you can see a project that you can not only see through ideological glasses, but can simply evaluate fact-based, so destroy and at the end of the day leave such a lamentable rest. I therefore propose a second motion for a resolution: Motion for a resolution by Christian Hafenecker, MA, Members of Parliament on “Increasing public transport – implementation “Nahverkehrsbilliarde” now!” The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Climate Change, Environment, Energy, Mobility, Innovation and Technology is invited to create, in agreement with the Federal Minister for Finance, the legal and budgetary framework for co-financing individual transport projects in agglomerations within the meaning of a “near transport billion” with a view to decarbonisation.” Yes, I mentioned it at the outset, Mrs Federal Minister, unfortunately only political action is to be observed by you. They have not done anything but dismantled a traffic sign and shortened funds there and there. I've summarized that very briefly. But what you can do – and you may already have spent enough time with the ÖVP: At the post chess you have now lived up to your best. I just want to mention: Supervisory Board Brennerbasistunnel, Austro Control, where you have just randomly collected profound supervisory boards and use green fundamentalists. I would really be interested in what kind of fool you are to Mrs. Tausz from the 7th century. The district has eaten that now is an expert for everything and is being honed by you in these positions. Perhaps there will be the possibility of extending the current investigation committee by a chapter, that is, green mail chess. The attempt to copy the ÖVP in terms of personnel policy has now succeeded in your approach. Mrs Bundesminister, at the end of my speech, however, a tip to you: Believe me, the ÖVP will separate itself more quickly from you than it is dear to you – I have already said that yesterday – and at the latest when your climate protection measures stand up and if you want to implement your program, the ÖVP will pull the emergency brake as always! Remember my words, I can already guarantee you that it will be so! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Obernoster: The guarantees are not worth anything!]] [[10:33]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e30449	Both applications have been properly submitted and are under negotiation. Mrs Graf is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e30474	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Estimated State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewer! I hope that Mr Hafenecker will be right if we return to a serious speech, for one thing is clear: [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hafenecker]] Despite the changed conditions as a result of the Covid-19 Pandemic, the decision of the present budget is important and correct, because it provides financial support and security for policy-making measures and projects, including in the area of environment, climate and energy. We are increasing the budget in this area by almost 70 percent this year. As an energy speaker, I am particularly pleased that we are increasing the funding for photovoltaics by at least EUR 7 million, which is a doubling. Other major improvements in the energy sector include the EUR 42.7 million for thermal renovation. The renovation of buildings in particular creates a threefold dividend: We have less CO2, more value added and more jobs – and often a better comfort. Secondly, there is a significant increase this year, ranging from 70 million to 90 million euros in the field of environmental and energy development. This will greatly benefit those companies that invest in measures to increase energy efficiency. This investment promotion is an important lever for domestic Companies, because those who use energy efficiently save costs and at the same time contribute to climate protection. Climate protection also benefits the economy, as we create jobs and regional value added. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, climate policy is also labour policy, which is also our access. We will create sustainable jobs in the environment and you will be able to rely on them, because the budget is undoubtedly an impetus to this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf]] The Minister has already mentioned it: In addition to this, we have a very ambitious project this year, we want to use the Renewable Development Act to promote green electricity on new legs, on the one hand we want to speed up expansion and on the other hand to make the support system more efficient and modern. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Martin Graf]] Especially in these times, it is important to stimulate investment that makes Austria more modern, sustainable and crisis-resistant. Home renewable energy sources, thermal renovations and energy efficiency promotion are good examples of measures that can help the economy and the environment if we make them smart. This will be an important task in the coming months, which the government and, of course, we in Parliament will have to face. Therefore, if we deal with it together and with home mind, then all of Austria will benefit! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e30543	Mr Brandtätter is speaking on behalf of the European Democratic Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e30564	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Yesterday I was criticized by a colleague from the ÖVP: Why Make You always advertise books there? – I said I was advertising ideas because I thought it was important. Apart from that, I think it's really useful to read books, so I brought one today: Human intelligence sometimes leaves out, so I can only recommend the artificial; it is about artificial intelligence and the superpowers, namely China and the Silicon Valley. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf]] [[An issue of the book entitled “AI Superpowers – China, Silicon Valley, and the New World Order” is kept up to date.]] The sad news is: How intense, do you think, is Europe in this book? – On one side, only in the statement that Europe is not playing, because it simply didn’t understand that we need data for artificial intelligence, and that we don’t use it together. This is what we are already on an essential issue: Of course, we have to do this together. Now you have to look at what we are doing in Austria in the field of artificial intelligence at all. We had a genius in the country, Prof. Trappl – he is now 81 years old; I have just heard a talk from him – who has researched and taught in the field of cybernetics in the 1960s and 1970s. Unfortunately, he was the only one, and unfortunately this tradition continues. There are about 370 000, 380 000 students in Austria, 2,000 courses – and one for artificial intelligence, again at a genius, Prof. Hochreiter at Johannes Kepler University. Let's be glad we got him! I know that does not fall within your competence, Mrs Federal Minister, and we are already in the next problem: The essential area of future, innovation, research has been divided into four ministries and has been pushed back and forth again – the Of course, it makes no sense at all – thank you, my colleague, to nod you – and I think you have to do something. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This makes us the next point, because of course we are in financing: I found yesterday the debate on who is best about dead numbers to be a bit unsympathetic. With regard to innovation leaders, we can already see who is the best, and unfortunately we are not at the best. Here too we have looked at the figures: If you look at what is going on in Sweden, Switzerland, in the Netherlands in the area of funding research, especially in the field of artificial intelligence, you see, these are far ahead of us. A message came from Germany: German research minister Karliczek said that 10 billion euros are now spent on innovative companies and innovative research, one of which is a good part for artificial intelligence alone. We are also investing in the companies – 250 million euros – and unfortunately we are also in the back. In Germany, 5 000 businesses will soon be supported, which will, of course, implement this research, including in the field of artificial intelligence. There we are. The next point we are unfortunately also in the back is the FTI strategy: Research, technology, innovation. There is no funding path – no money, no music! –, so we're going to fall back. The Research Finance Act makes no sense, even if we do not have a funding path. We are happy when the FFG gets more money, but of course it is still too little. There, too, topics such as future production and ICT of the future are underfinanced. We have also seen that the programmes that have been launched were over-inquired 6,2 times, that is, there is just too little money there. What's going on in other countries? – Exciting in this book, like Kai-Fu Lee, a Chinese who has worked for Google in America and is now rebuilding companies in China, describes how the race is going. The race runs so that in the software Silicon Valley is still in the front, but in the hardware Shenzhen – we speak differently, but that is not supposed to be right – near Hong Kong is the center where the best machines are now being built – unfortunately we can not with it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] We will only be able to do so if we are among the innovation leaders in Europe, if we do so together with other countries and if, please, we also use significantly more money for it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e30641	Mrs Disoski is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e30662	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! High house! Dear Seers! With the budget of the UG 41, mobility, we take great steps towards sustainable mobility. We are also taking a big step towards a more socially just transport system. This is important because mobility is more than just driving from A to B. That is why it is important – it has already been mentioned several times today – because mobility is a basis for participation in public and social life as well. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] 4.6 million people in Austria, ladies and gentlemen, are fully or partly dependent on public transport. Many people in Austria secure their mobility by metro, bim, bus and rail, and in the sense of a more socially fair transport system, it is therefore precisely those transport and also those forms of mobility that allow for equal access to mobility, regardless of age, gender or income. These include, of course, the active forms of mobility, cycling and walking. Right here, and I'm very pleased, we're making a big leap with the UG 41 budget: We promote sustainable mobility, we promote active mobility. As these increases manifest in numbers, I would like to draw up four specific examples: First: There is more for rail passenger transport, an increase of EUR 91 million for public transport and a further EUR 7 million for private railways. Secondly, There is federal money for tram and urban regional railway projects for the first time, and I am particularly pleased as a green person now, because we are finally implementing a decision here in 2008 on the initiative of the Greens. For this there is already a plus of 5 million euros this year and by 2023 additional 75 million euros. Thirdly, As a Viennan, I am particularly pleased that we can also secure metro co-financing with this budget.In the years 2020 to 2023, there are 78 million euros per year. Fourthly, Mr Hammer mentioned this at the beginning: In this budget there is much more resources for active mobility, 25 million euros, especially for cycling and footing, and overall we increase the resources for active mobility from 4.4 million euros to 46.4 million euros. – Let this break on the tongue! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the funds made available by the Federal Government, for example, to implement cycle road projects, are of course now also collected from the countries and from the municipalities. I am now looking to all of you who sit here with the request to actively work in your parties to ensure that these funds are also collected. I can tell you from a very sad experience in Vienna: It's not always that easy. Very ambitious projects will be shot down, will not be implemented, not at all because the money would not be available for this, but because a local politician or a local politician thinks: I'd rather stop my parking lot in front of the door instead of a broken infrastructure for bike paths and for walking. Green local politicians are not explicitly shared here. Mr President, this is going in your direction: How much you still put on concrete within your party, we last have in the 2nd century. ==References====External links== There was the great discussion about a pop-up cycle path, a green idea for a temporary cycle path that at the same time wanted to promote social distance plus active mobility in the time of Corona. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lord]] Your colleagues from the district have directed us: I'm sure not with us! [[Abg. Belakovich: Super!]] They said earlier: wetless, brave, backward. - That's exactly what it is. I would be very pleased if you were to use your energy and the verve you have shown here to do your work within the party, because it still needs to be done. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Straster.]] I would like to conclude by saying to you, Mrs Minister, that this budget is very ambitious. You have negotiated, which bears a very clear green handwriting, thank you. This can really be seen more than just. I look forward to our decision on Thursday. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e30725	Mr Schroll is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e30746	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators! A budget debate will, of course, always provide an opportunity to see whether the announcements will be implemented, whether they will be complied with. It is precisely because it is of course also a recycled budget that you, as an energy speaker, could of course mention very, very many criticism points, but sponge over them. Let us talk about the ambitious objectives of the government programme, which I believe are very, very ambitious. Mrs Minister, Mr Herr has already said that perhaps even a little too ambitious is to say, if you look in detail and read through the government programme. In the field of climate target and energy concept, relatively little has happened in the last two years, from 2017 to 2019/2020. It is now very much to pick up a lot, and you, Mrs Minister, of course have a lot of work there. The goal of winning 2030 100 percent electricity from renewable energy simply could not reach the last government, it was a smooth short circuit. This can only be said because, unfortunately, nothing has happened in the realm of God. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the other hand, new ones are, of course, the clear development targets in the field of different technologies and, ladies and gentlemen, all those involved and those concerned are waiting so far unfortunately for God's forgiveness. So far, it has only been phrases, so far it is only lines that read very well, but unfortunately God without power. A very big question remains unanswered: Who pays for these ambitious goals and what will come out of it? Funding: One could now address many, many issues, I would like to highlight one thing – ladies and gentlemen, please listen to this, because that is already very, very important –: We have 164 eligible projects in the area of district heating, 90 million euros are needed for this, and only 1.5 million euros are in the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, just a few of these: For 60 years – 60 years! – we need to complete these projects, which are already on the table and would already be eligible for support. The government programme provides for 1 billion euros for the eco-electric development programme, but unfortunately God is not a point of reference where these billions are to come from. Most of the funding is already paid by the 3.8 million households in the form of the eco-electric fee itself. In our opinion, it cannot be that only the working people have to pay the token. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are all concerned with energy poverty, ladies and gentlemen, and this is, of course, decisively opposed. Unfortunately, the fake budget of the Ministry of Finance does not include anything in this direction. Although the government programme refers to energy poverty, concrete measures are unfortunately lacking in this regard of God. An example, Mrs. Minister, could we look away from our neighbor Germany: There the Greens have introduced the capping of the eco-power promotion amount, and that would be an example that would also be needed for us in this direction. The financial resources should not only come from the electricity bill, but definitely also from the budget. That would be a very, very good approach. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to take the opportunity to thank all those in the E-E-Economie who, especially during this difficult time, have always provided 100 per cent or almost 100 per cent that there has been security of supply and that electricity and heat have been delivered to the households – a very great thank you to all the e-suppliers in our country. Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, I think you also know about this: The energy industry is waiting for the EA law, we are waiting for the numbers, the law – all waiting for the great unknown. There is an urgent need for clear legislation in this area. Mrs. Minister, you have announced very, very much. You said that the EAG would be available in summer. As I said, they're all waiting for it. Let us leave an archival tantrum of the last government period and design modern participative, durable and ecological energy! Time is ripe for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e30816	Mrs Geessler has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e30838	I just want to focus very briefly on three things. I have mentioned earlier that this budget – the climate budget, the energy budget, including the mobility budget – is a trend change in budgetary policy in this area. But, of course, budget is not everything, in order to achieve the climate neutrality target in 2040, we will need the full instrument case. Many of you have mentioned the EAG, the Renewable Development Act, which is why I would like to refer to it again briefly. I and the whole ministry, the department, are working with great pressure on the finalisation of this bill. However, I will not send a law in review or in negotiations until I am convinced that it will achieve the objectives and we have a goal: 2030 100 percent electricity from renewable energy sources. I intend to achieve this goal, and we will achieve this objective. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We will also achieve this goal because my concern and our common concern must also be that we keep the hand-fixed jobs you mentioned in Voest and in many other industrial companies in Austria. For this reason, the Voest is considering today what it needs to be able to switch its production to climate-neutral steel production. This requires a lot of renewable energies and the renewable development law also provides a basis. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] We thus also ensure the competitiveness of Austrian energy in the future. We want to do this by doing a cover in the program: 1 billion euros – this is now going in this direction, even though the colleague is not listening to it – for the expansion of renewable energy. [[towards Abg. Scrolling]] That is to say, the law must also ensure that we guarantee this achievement as efficiently as possible with a genuine social partners' agreement to finance the development of green electricity, so that we can continue to have the funding in a social balance. The second point is the mobility policy of the future, the expansion of public transport. There are three pillars – I have mentioned this a few times in the House –: We need infrastructure development, and this is what we are doing in this budget. There is a need for supply compression – we also provide for it in this budget – including, we have discussed it here recently, with a better link Innsbruck-Vienna also at the margins, so that even since relocation can take place better, and with an improvement in supply in many other areas, namely in the rural area, in urban links, in tourist zones, on the daily margins. It needs tickets. The 1-2-3 ticket is a building block for a durable public mobility. – This budget provides for all three building blocks of sustainable mobility, and I am also pleased about it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Finally, just a short while to the public, so that we can also conduct this discussion well and objectively: The public – and I have already done this in the Committee on Budgets – are divided into several budget items, because they are usefully a bundle of measures, i.e. infrastructure expansion, modernisation of infrastructure, electrification – so how to do infrastructure also? – especially in the agglomerations, but not only, for the first time financing of urban regional railways, which has just been mentioned, extending public transport offers, supporting decarbonisation in bus transport. There are, divided into the most diverse budget headings, exactly the measures that lead to a strengthening of local and regional transport over the legislative period and, in particular, to the goal of climate neutrality in 2040. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e30907	Mr Eßl, Member of the Commission. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent report. -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e30934	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On the 2020 budget draft, we are currently discussing the issues of mobility and energy. It is about implementing the government programme – an ambitious government programme, an eco-social government programme. We know, of course, that a lot has changed. We had the intention to take in more and more in the government budget than to spend from 2019 onwards, so to generate a surplus in the budget. However, the crisis will also affect the government budget. We know that there will be less revenue. This budget should nevertheless ensure that all important measures can be implemented accordingly. As an example, I would like to mention the ÖBB Framework Plan, which includes 37 measures. As a Salzburg MP, however, I should also like to mention some projects from my federal state, which are important, and to ask for attention in the near future: financial support for the underground extension of the Salzburg local railway, two-track extension of the Salzburg local railway for the completion of a 15-minute cycle, electrification of the Mattigtal railway, and close access to the construction of the Pass Lueg tunnel chain for a disaster-proof and faster links to the south and financial support for decarbonisation of the Pinzgau local railway. Finally, I would also like to say three sentences on energy. The issue of renewable energy is to be given much more weight in the future than before. From my point of view, biomass is one of the keys to a good energy future, and especially now that our forestry is in a situation threatening existence, it is necessary to react with an increased use of biomass. Therefore, biomass heat and energy should also be supported accordingly and this budget should also be possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e30974	Mr Rauch has been reported on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e30995	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Dear spectators at home! Mrs Bundesminister, you mentioned it earlier, we actually have a good conversation culture and basis in the Environment Committee. That's right, that's good. This is parliamentaryism, which is exchange, which is also communication, just as one should deal with one another and that should live. Nevertheless, today you present figures which in the final effect, as it was mentioned yesterday and today, are actually not worthy of this paper or are actually not worth the paper – let's just look at the numbers for the next six months! Why? – It is not this crisis that you mentioned at the beginning of your speech, nor is it planning any future projects that need to set appropriate accents and measures in the field of the environment, but of course also in the transport sector. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr Eßl mentioned earlier, there are many local railways that are not shown there. There are many renewable energy measures that are not shown. So everything is in the final effect a paper decorated with numbers, however, it is not worth this paper on which the numbers stand. [[Complaint and call for call at the FPÖ.]] A little bit of green politics seems to me like you're sitting in the car, standing full-gas on the tube, forgetting that there's still a coalition partner and the ignition hasn't started. So you need a little more commitment and also a re-start of the ignition in order to become active in this area as well. Why? – This is quite simple, I am referring to the comments made by my colleague Juryenschlager: He mentioned earlier in his speech that because of the surveys one is not yet sure in which direction. [[Abg. Jewellery: No, I said something else!]] I know that the ÖVP makes symbolic policy after surveys, but not according to ideology or by attitude – that is the difference to the Greens: You know where it's going. There you never know where it's going. [[in the direction of ÖVP pointing]] That depends on where the survey curve is right now. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The economic package you mentioned is, of course, important and therefore important to move forward. In my opinion, and in the opinion of our group, what we should not do is repress people. On the one hand, take something away and, on the other hand, add something, but also introduce new taxes, CO2 taxes or a CO2 tax that burden the taxpayers, all these are measures that we cannot now under this government, in the time of this crisis, because people are already burdened enough. We are currently talking about over 600 000 unemployed people, about 1.3 million people in short-term employment. All these are things that we need to support more people, rather than burden them again. Of course, that you are now trying to force Green Jobs, I understand, this is also a good approach; what exactly these Green Jobs should or must be, however, must be defined, even for the future, because this is not available in any paper. It's a keyword, a headline, but what exactly these jobs should be, or what jobs they should be, is never written. I would like to mention one point on waste management, which is also an important factor: Food waste. Vienna throws away as much as Graz consumes food a day, i.e. bread. All these are things that make it clear that the value of food and, of course, resource conservation needs to be increased. Resource conservation is an important point, and I would also have expected more commitment and initiative from you, but also from your group, but we will come back to the point that, of course, the coalition partner is sitting back in the back seat and that the ignition cable in the vehicle, in the car, has not yet assembled, so that you do not get started and not get started. That is why I am supporting this area, as a suggestion, as well as the following request for you: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is a small suggestion in this area to implement this point as well. I think we speak almost the same language – the Klotz on the leg is sitting on this side. [[in the direction of ÖVP pointing]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[11:03]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e31141	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Mrs Elisabeth Götze, you will speak next. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e31165	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear audience in front of the screens! Currently and actually for some time now we have been dealing with various crises – climate crisis and now Covid-19 – and I think it is obvious that we know where we need to invest: on the one hand, in digitalization – we also have a ministry called the Federal Ministry of Digitalization and Economics – on the other hand, in climate protection – we also have a ministry – and in health – that is, I believe, a very clear knowledge of the last months. If we invest in these areas, we also need massive research in these areas. Research and development, that is what assures us and what Austria will bring forward. There is a lot of money going into research in Austria, and we are even increasing it. I am talking about the UG 34 – that is the field of innovation and technologies – where we have an increase of 5.4 percent, and in the UG 33 – that is research in cooperation with the economy – even an increase of 9.6 percent. It has already been said by my previous speaker that it is not planned to save in these areas – that would make no sense either, because that is exactly what we need and what makes us more crisis-resistant. A few more numbers: Austria is also very good in its research performance across the EU. We are second in terms of research expenditure in terms of gross domestic product by 3.19 percent. The EU's target is 3 per cent, and we are second, before us only Sweden is 3.4 per cent, Germany is even behind us. So these are numbers that can be seen. Where do we invest? – On the one hand, IPCEI, which has been mentioned several times. This is therefore an investment in microelectronics and batteries; Batteries that – by storing, for example, solar power or solar energy – certainly also help to cope with the climate crisis. We promote the cooperation of scientific research with the economy, i.e. the transfer of technology, which is associated with it, but also with the research that is generated. Young, technology-oriented companies, i.e. start-ups, we want to support, support in the creation – keyword Seedfinancing. There is still a lot of need for recovery in Austria. A point that is also very important to me: We also promote the creative economy and innovation in this area, for example in the areas of architecture, film industry, music industry, software and games – we are not so bad at all – and, perhaps to mention one more point, social innovations. Innovation is not only about technology-based innovations, but also about social innovations, i.e. changes in how we draw up, for example, certain business models. In summary, I think, you can say: It is clear that we need research, because research supports Austria's economic location. From jobs via patents, through the competitiveness of Austrian companies – all this is secured by research. In this sense, I am glad that there is a clear commitment to Austria as a research location, to investment in research. We're standing. Clearly for fact-based policy, for fact-based decisions, and therefore this is a great commitment to science and research. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e31216	Next speaker: Mr Felix Eypeltauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e31238	Madam President. High house! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear citizens! If you talk to people, think about it yourself or consider the studies you know in the ministry, then you know: At the mobility turnaround, the grid density, second the frequency and reliability, third of the time comparison with the car, fourth of the comfort and fifth of all a particularly favourable price. When I travel at home in Upper Austria in the districts, no matter if I am in Braunau, in Ried, in Kirchdorf or in Freistadt, the people, especially the young people or young families, tell me there: What's a cheap ticket for me if I don't have a public house and if I need the car anyway? This gives rise to a very clear prioritisation, namely not the same importance of the 1-2-3 air ticket and network expansion, as we heard from the Minister in the Committee on Budgets, but a very clear prioritisation in favour of a fixed network expansion. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] For the last kilometers, ladies and gentlemen, between the train station and home, of course, it will still need individual mobility. At the moment, most of the time, it's the car. And why is that so? - Because you just need it in the country anyway. To bring children to school, to make purchases, to drive the grandma somewhere, to visit neighbors or to drive to the town center, you simply need the car and take a grip. In part it's Carsharing, that's great, in part it's electric cars, even that's good, but to say that with a bus that runs through every small community and collapses everything there, like some think, a solution can be created, is pure symbolic policy. These buses are on the land, and do you know what the people call them? – They call them ghostbuses because they drive around empty most of the time a day. And that's not the solution. The last kilometers between the door and the train station we need individual mobility, and if this is more and more the bike, I am very pleased. There are enough small and larger cities in this area, which need enormous catch-up needs, who should build cycle highways and want to expand the cycle network and also improve the footpaths. I myself, as a local politician, after all in the capital city of Linz in Upper Austria, know this debate well enough, and I say to you one, Mrs Minister: You have to do enormous persuasion – we NEOS support you – because the SPÖ and the ÖVP in the municipalities do not usually understand that this needs to be done. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intervocations at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] You really must work hard at it, ladies and gentlemen, to bring it into the minds of the local politicians. You don't need to scream so loud from the reds and the blacks at all, I've known this for five years and I've been experiencing it close by: It is a game of mourning, how little understanding there is in your parties for modern mobility. I'm sorry, it's so! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intervocations at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] As a passionate folding cyclist and commuter between cities, I am particularly pleased to see the tenfold increase in the bicycle budget, but do you know why it is so difficult for people in the countryside to get into the public network effectively and comfortably? [[Abg. Kollross: The mayor probably!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] You can see very well why this is so when you look across the border to Bavaria: Our settlements are enormously broken, and in Bavaria they are very compact. The rural regions in Austria, especially in Upper Austria and Lower Austria, are in a disastrous situation. This does not look like professional and objective spatial planning, which looks like children have poured out building blocks. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] And to open all these building blocks with public, ladies and gentlemen, is simply impossible and expensive. That is why people in the country often depend on having not only one or two cars but even three cars per household. Responsible for this – now you can yell again – the ÖVP has been drawing over the last 50 years. This separation now costs the people in the country the quality of life and the places in the country now the future. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] So who's got anything from the 1-2-3 air ticket right now? – The townsmen. The communities in the country don't need a cheap ticket, they need a good connection, ladies and gentlemen! One last point I would like to make: There's a problem with the 1-2-3-climate ticket I'd like to point out. It is based on a single-euro per-day tax price logic because it is a marketing product, and that will be relatively difficult to change afterwards. The Swiss want to get away from their fixed price logic because they want to adjust the price to inflation and direct second passenger flows with the price. It will be very difficult for your successors, Mrs. Minister, to get rid of this 365 Euro, ground in stone, but this happens when marketing comes before the substance. But there you are with your coalition partner in best society.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e31330	The next speaker is Mr Hermann Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e31355	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! The current debate shows: Mobility demands us, it accompanies us every day, and I believe we also need decisions to achieve set goals. As a whole, I think we see quite regional differences in this, and as a Tyrolean MP, I can refer to something: There are limits, and if the loads due to the Transport becomes too much – as with us at the Brenner in 2019 with 2.5 million trucks – then the population can no longer accept it. On the other hand, there are also restrictions on the domestic economy as transit continues to increase. Mrs Bundesminister, you mentioned here today that it is about moving traffic from the road to the rail. We don't need to look that far: Switzerland's neighbouring country has been doing this for many decades. There heavy traffic becomes 80 percent on the rail and 20 percent on the road The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. I think the shift in freight transport is a major challenge. We in Tyrol, with the Brenner Base Tunnel as an infrastructure project, hope that, as announced in the last Court of Auditors report, the whole will not delay, but that we will be able to complete this project as soon as possible. My request, Mrs Bundesminister: We absolutely need political pressure on Germany, on Brussels, in order to complete the runway to be able to move the transport of goods to this TEN axis, which is to run more than 1,000 kilometres. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to say that we should all work to bring more traffic on the rails instead of on the road, to develop public transport, to promote and support alternative drive concepts. Everything in everything, I think, can or must be determined: We must turn on many screws in the area of mobility in order to achieve fixed goals. I wish you, Mrs Federal Minister, and here in this House, all the best that we can do together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e31403	The next speaker is Mrs Petra Oberrauner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e31424	Estimated President! Estimated Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators at home! What do we want in the field of innovation and research for Austria? – We want to open up to the most competitive nations, and we want to become innovation leaders from innovation followers. The comparison with Sweden, Denmark and the Netherlands shows that this is also possible for a smaller country like Austria. We have few raw materials in Austria, but we have intellectual capital that we should raise that we should promote and develop. This is extremely important because our economy has to remain competitive with its products and the location of Austria has to secure jobs via competitiveness. This is possible in view of the global political changes on competitive research and development, and we need European independence in the most strategic areas such as the technologies of the future. Research projects in microelectronics and battery technology, in which Austria is involved together with European partners, are an essential contribution to climate protection. I would just like to give an example in microelectronics, which then leads me to the argument for artificial intelligence and the research funding budget. There is a microelectronic company in my home town of Villach, which was supported by a mayor with a lot of courage and a public investment of 40 million euros 25 years ago, when no one was interested in high-tech, and has now developed to ensure that Silicon Alps exists. This is a microelectronic cluster, which has grown from 20 small microelectronics companies in Villach to 140 companies in Austria. There are Silicon Austria Labs in the field of applied research, and there is a site investment of 2 billion euros and 1 000 jobs due to the framework conditions in this city. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is a successful technology and research policy, and I therefore urge you, Mrs Minister – and I very much appreciate your approach – to the Research Promotion Act, which we have been talking about since 2009, finally putting it on track, providing it with money, and how the strategy for artificial intelligence for the next budget promises to be presented. This will become the crucial point for the development of unemployment in Austria, because we can also support many people who have lost their jobs in these areas with education in such a way that they become skilled workers whom we need in precisely these areas and which the industry is looking for. Give us the chance to develop us as Austria! Give us the chance to show that we can be leaders in this area! We have the know-how, we have the prerequisites, we have the investment, and we also have businesses with worldwide relevance. We just have to do it, and this is going to be a real economic package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e31476	The next speaker is Mr Franz Hörl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e31500	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government has set itself the goal of further maintaining climate change and environmental protection in Austria and of making the budgetary resources available for it in these times. However, it is important to me as a Tyrolean business owner and entrepreneur that all the implementations of climate and environmental policy are sustainable, financeable and, above all, unbureaucratic. Environmental and economic policy must go hand in hand so that opportunities can be created in export markets and no new burden on the economy. The achievement of climate objectives, Mrs. Federal Minister, is no longer possible by today's available technologies alone. Research and further development are needed for new technologies and efficiency improvement. To this end, the increase in the resources of the Climate and Energy Fund, as well as your other budgetary resources, which you will have at your disposal, can contribute. Renewable energies will play an increasingly important role in mobility concepts. Here, however, the ability to store and thus the availability at the right time are the great challenge. Batteries and hydrogen could offer solutions here. Similarly, the construction of pumped water reservoirs should be continued as compensation for the volatile electricity production of solar and wind power. And I also ask you to see the expansion of hydropower in our Alps as a great opportunity and not as a burden, because you will need this if you want to achieve your goal of producing more electricity from renewable energies in 2030 – this, of course, also from the point of view that more and more electricity will be needed in the future by increasing e-mobility. Mobility as the great freedom of our society causes a third of the CO2 problem and thus represents the great challenge of our century. In your budget, you have also estimated the funds for refitting the bus fleets, for new urban railway projects. In my native valley, the largest alpine tourist valley, the Zillertal valley, we try to realize a large hydrogen project at the regional Zillertalbahn, with green electricity from the Zillertal power plants; we have the connection as a good partner, as a good system partner in the boat. The electrification of this regional train should save 900 000 litres of diesel per year and 2 400 tonnes of CO2. I would ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, to support this project, as well as the expansion of hydrogen infrastructure, and congratulate you on this budget. I wish you all the best. You and the Secretary of State will do a good job here for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e31545	Next speaker: Mr Peter Schmiedlechner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e31570	Madam President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! In its government programme, the Federal Government has set itself the high goal of making Austria a pioneer in climate change and environmental protection. The breakdown of climate, environment and energy is affected by strong retranslations in the course of the amendment of the Federal Ministry Act. Here it could be said that the ÖVP has cleared the greens like a Christian tree. The most important figures are: The 2020 budget estimate is EUR 461 million for climate, environment and energy, while revenue of EUR 188 million is expected, of which EUR 184 million is largely fuelled by the sale of emission certificates. This results in a reduction in payments of 30.5% compared with the preliminary success of the previous year and in payments of around 70 percent. One thing is certain: Environmental protection will not work without agriculture. Biodiversity, biodiversity will only be achieved together with farmers. Mrs Minister, instead of talking about agriculture – now she is gone – instead of talking about farmers, you should talk to the farmers. [[general hustle and bustle]] I see agriculture and the environment as two communication vessels: Only together can we operate environmental protection. Mrs. Minister, while you are engaged in lifting measures from your predecessor and increasing marketing balloons, an environmental disaster is taking place right in front of our doorstep, right in front of our eyes: The birch beetle destroys thousands of hectares of forest that affect the environment are disastrous. The local farmers sit on the shady and cannot even afford the reforestation. At the same time, they have to watch hundreds of truck trains imported by the saw industry from abroad every day. Regionally rather than globally, the foreign exchange should be loud. – Madam Minister, I am excited when you finally start to act, the environmental disaster right in front of our doorstep should be stopped as urgently as possible! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e31619	Next speaker: Mrs Carmen Jeitler-Cincelli. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e31640	Good morning, Madam President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Austrians! One of the necessary objectives of our future environmental policy is to increase the recycling rate. Hiezu is now presenting complex measures, such as pledge systems – for which a resolution has been tabled today – with a lot of effort and costs. On the contrary, Mr Rauch's statement in advance: Of course, the huge cost, huge effort and burden on people, where you mean, they don't want to burden people again. In Austria, particularly the small-structured, it would be very difficult for companies to establish a system of pledges. [[Abg. Smoking: Where? Where?]] In fact, it would be very easy, there would be a very simple solution, my Ladies and gentlemen: Eight federal states in Austria already have a restrictive separation of their waste – eight federal states! Do you know which country doesn't cut the trash restrictively? – Ladies and gentlemen, this is Vienna! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] The supposedly clean city, the green Vienna, the environmentally friendly city: Everything lands here largely in the house trash, in a bubble, in a ton and is burned. [[Abg. Smoking: The Bad Greens in Vienna!]] Unfortunately, nothing has changed in this practice for decades. Theoretically there is the possibility, but we see it in the back: There's a can of waste inside, there's glass waste inside, even waste oil is put in the garbage cube. The problem may be a matter in the medium term, one can increase the heating value, it certainly has advantages to stick to this practice, out of a capitalist consideration, but every fourth Austrian now lives in Vienna. [[Call the SPÖ: Because it is so beautiful there!]] Thus, while all the others are restrictively separating their waste, the Viennans have no practical chance of being able to participate in the separation of waste in the course of environmental protection. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That is why I clearly appeal to the SPÖ, perhaps to the President – I do not know exactly who has good relations in the town hall – this is a bit opaque in you: [[Abg. Belakovich: Just tell the greens!]] Call Mr Ludwig! Maybe you're playing it over the Burgenland, that's perhaps the best thing. Calls They indicate there and also give the Viennans the chance to contribute their part, because the recycling rate is clearly not only fulfilled in Vienna! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Do something so that not all of Austria is burdened, and give people this fair chance! It is quite bizarre, Vienna is the hotspot of Fridays-for-future movement, actionism is here in Vienna, and people don't even have the opportunity to separate their trash, even in the public area. That's totally shurril. We need an Austrian-wide separation system, which applies to all, and for that we need Vienna. So I ask the representatives of the official Vienna, no, I ask the representatives of the official Vienna to: Take care of this recycling discrimination for your citizens! Get rid of this!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e31751	Next speaker: Mr Dietmar Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e31775	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear colleague, despite the entire Vienna bashing of the ÖVP, Vienna has again been elected the most life-worthy city in the world for the x-th time in 2019. That's all I'm saying. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] Stop your useless attacks at last! Mrs. Minister, Mr. State Secretary, EUR 2.4 billion has been allocated to investment projects, as you have said, in this budget, to investment projects which are also used to increase public transport, including the Vienna–Salzburg railway line, which has already happened a lot. On this train there are under tunnels in Lower Austria. I don't know how to make sense, because if you're up there driving, you can see where the tunnel is, no village, nothing at all. Apparently the tunnels have been built for the hunters to have a free shooting field, otherwise it is not clear to me that there were miles of tunnels built. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] And here I come to my problem: Now this route is being expanded in Upper Austria, and it happens that a city like Leonding is shared with 30,000 inhabitants. There is no tunnel built, there is to be housed. Leonding becomes a second Berlin. That is, this city will be separated by a wall, and this project costs 100 million euros. Now there has been an EIA, where it was decided that it was, but there was only this one project. There is a second draft, a proposal from the municipality of Leonding, which was adopted unanimously by the Council of Municipalities. This project costs only 85 million euros and does not provide a wall. That would be a win-win situation: 15 million euros cheaper than the ÖBB proposed, and a win situation for the residents because they are not separated by a wall. Mrs Bundesminister Geessler, I have a request: Look Look at the needs of the 30,000 people in Leonding and see that this project, proposed by the inhabitants of Leonding, is also being implemented. I'd have that request for you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second issue is: Mrs Bundesminister, you mentioned the Voest that wants to become climate-neutral, which wants to completely reduce its CO2 emissions, which operates a hydrogen project. This requires renewable energy but renewable energy. To discuss this with you, Mrs Federal Minister, I would like to invite you to a visit to Voest. If we make an appointment, let's take a look at the whole thing! Let us talk about what is necessary for the Voest, what measures we need for R & D, what means we need to implement all of this. We as Voestalpine – and I think that's what management said – are willing to make our contribution to this. But we also need the contribution of the Federal Government, and I hope that you will give it to us.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e31841	Mrs Julia Herr has referred to an actual correction. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e31873	Member of Parliament Jeitler-Cincelli claimed that waste would be separated in eight federal states, only in Vienna. – This is, of course, wrong, even in Vienna, most successful waste is separated. Especially in waste processing, one is really very good at this, and not without reason, Vienna has the lowest CO2 emissions from all the federal states and has been selected several times as the most viable city in the world, also due to the further developments in the field of environment and waste management. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e31905	The next speaker is Mrs Rebecca Kirchbaumer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e31929	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Dear Seers! Ladies and gentlemen! To the honourable Member: My colleague Jeitler-Cincelli spoke on this subject of recycling. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, the Corona crisis has caused the construction work on the Brenner Base Tunnel to fall asleep, and on the Italian side there is still no further construction. For transit traffic in Tyrol, it is incredibly important that we create the shift to the rails, and for this it is necessary for this 64 km long tunnel – which is to become the longest underground railway link in the world – the access routes from Bavaria to Tyrol as well as on the Italian side. The Federal Minister has already assured us in the Committee that the funds for this, i.e. for the Brenner Base Tunnel, are available and secured. What I am pleased with is the decarbonization for which you have budgeted 80 million euros. It is hoped that a part of the Zillertalbahn will be made available so that it can play a pioneering role with the hydrogen drive. 75 million euros are available for the new construction of road and cable car infrastructure, which I am particularly pleased to see as a concern for transport and transport, and the funds for noise protection walls are spent at 100 million euros. The bad news is that the burner base tunnel is only to be completed by 2030, which means a delay of four years. [[Call at the SPÖ:... that's what you're doing!]] I would like to ask you, Mrs Geessler, that this is not carried out on the back of freight carriers, the freighters and their truck drivers. Please work to achieve the European-level approach. Furthermore, the obstacles to international rail transport must also be reduced for the train drivers, which is no longer the case in modern times. Finally, I ask you to look at the freight carriers, look at the truck drivers, because they were the heroes in the Corona crisis, and I would ask you to ensure that they continue to remain heroes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e31978	The next speaker is Mr Gerald Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e31999	Madam President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing today the chapter on mobility, and, ladies and gentlemen, from the point of view of Tyrol, we do not at all agree with the restrictions on mobility. As you know, there is currently no possibility of coming as Tyroleans from East Tyrol to North Tyrol to the capital of the state or as Innsbrucker to the beautiful East Tyrol, because the transit through South Tyrol is not allowed. This is a really great restriction on our mobility. The population of East Tyrol is particularly angry with the fact that Italy was in the third century. June opens the border and allows German guests to enter Italy through Tyrol, but we are not allowed to travel to Tyrol within Tyrol – the folk soul really cooks. I would ask you, Mrs Minister, to assist your Transport Councillor Ingrid Felipe so that this unbearable situation is finally changed. No one in East Tyrol understands this, it's a very difficult situation! Sillians, for example, who normally travel a maximum of one and a half hours from East Tyrol to Innsbruck, now need three and a half hours and have to take this detour. Why is there not the possibility, and there I speak to you as Responsible for the ÖBB, for the mailbox, to create a corridor possibility? Why can't you do that? That's the simplest thing in the world! You can't push and argue everything on Covid-19: Now we have the Corona crisis and now we can't do it! It must be possible that in the future – immediately! – a direct bus connection between Lienz and Innsbruck is possible as well as by train. I really ask you: Put off this unbearable situation for us Tyrolean! I can add to this point that even today a Euroregion meeting has been cancelled because the Trentin head of state did not come to Innsbruck, which means that the Europe region of Tyrol Trentino suffers massively under this unbearable condition. Shut up, the second one, I'm allowed to bring a quote, 25.5.2018: “Green outraged Hubert Gorbach’s new job”, “blue recoloring action.” The Tyrolean Greens lived through the new Supervisory Board of the Brennerbasistunnel Gesellschaft, Hubert Gorbach.” What brings the greens to the palm tree like that? “The former Deputy Chancellor and Transport Minister Hubert Gorbach [...] will become Supervisory Board at Brennerbasistunnel Gesellschaft”. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Close, third, 11.5. of this year: Instead of Hubert Gorbach, the former head of the office of Landeshaupmann deputy Ingrid Felipe, Ms Alexandra Medvedeff, as green supervisor and also Karin Tausz, are also sent a green, supervisory councillor. So what the Greens themselves have repeatedly criticized, they themselves now operate massively! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'll tell you one, greens: I'm even hard to criticize your positions because I don't know your positions anymore!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e32068	Next speaker: Mrs Elisabeth Pfurtscheller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e32090	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! I am now the third Tyrolean in line, and I hope you'll keep up with us. I have chosen a topic for my speech from your very, very comprehensive chapter – and now it has happened exactly what I feared, namely that my speech is gone, but okay, I get it that way – which in the budget may not be done with the highest sum, but which I think is incredibly important, especially for rural areas. [[the speaker looks at her tablet]] In the sparsely populated areas – my constituency is such an area – we will always need private cars, even if there will be a really great and intensive kiln. Individual traffic, we must be honest, will always be necessary in the sparsely populated areas. People will always need the car for the last mile, as it is always called – but that is not just one kilometer, but that's more than 20 or 30 kilometers. That is why it is so important for me to discuss this issue with you briefly now. We in rural areas, of course, also want to make our contribution to CO2 savings and climate neutrality, so it is incredibly important that money be put into research for alternative drives. You have foreseen 20 million euros in the budget, and I am very pleased. I also wish you very much a lot of success, because precisely these alternative impulses will need to be able to ensure the corresponding savings in rural areas in the future. Of course, it still needs incentives for people to switch to alternative systems, for example on e-cars. It needs, as it were, some kind of reward, no matter how it looks. What must not be forgotten in any case and should be strongly pushed in the near future is the expansion of the charging infrastructure, both in private and in the public sector. I come very briefly to a subject that is very important to me, which I consider to be incredibly progressive and forward-looking, and which, in my opinion, has been a little short in the discussion lately: autonomous driving. I believe that, especially in rural areas, part-autonomous and autonomous driving will be very important for the future. There will be possibilities for, for example, pick-up services that operate automatically in villages, and other things, such as the traffic regulation and the speed on heavily driven land roads by means of part-autonomous driving. Since we are still putting a lot of money into the expansion of broadband and the expansion of the 5G stations, I believe that this should also be used to strongly force these opportunities, these digital possibilities of autonomous driving. Please accept my request. So it is not to forget these issues. So you don't misunderstand me. I am totally involved, of course, and I support all initiatives for public transport, regardless of whether the railway, bus, tram, subway, but people in rural areas also need individual transport and are equally dependent on sustainable mobility. That is why I ask you to force strongly in this area. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e32144	The Federal Minister has now made a statement. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e32165	I would like to focus briefly on two things that have been said, also because I was just outside at the speech of Mr Schmiedlechner and you, my colleague, have spoken to me. On the one hand, the question of rural and urban areas: For a mobility turnaround, for a climate change change change, we need changes in urban mobility and also changes in rural mobility. I come from the country myself, I come from a 1 000-inhabitant community in Styria. My brother-in-law works there in shift duty. Of course, to get into his shift, even in the future driving by car, he becomes perfectly clear. Our task, however, is to shape the framework conditions in such a way that this mobility is climate-friendly and emission-neutral in the future. E-mobility plays a central role in the passenger car. That is why we also have a clear focus in this budget on e-mobility, both in the promotion of vehicles and in the promotion of charging infrastructure. In addition, there is a lot of research budget specifically for research and development with new programmes, Zero Emission Mobility, which is also about decarbonizing more difficult areas, such as individual mobility. The second, of course, is agriculture, you mentioned it, Mr Schmiedlechner, when I was just outside. Agriculture is a whole important factor when it comes to achieving the climate targets, and agriculture is not only an important partner in achieving these climate targets, but is now one of the first to be affected. I think you mentioned the borque beetle and its very intense presence in the forestry industry, we have more and more problems with drought. There were problems with harvest helpers, there was the topic – I have already formulated it this way – as harvest helpers, harvest helpers come to Austria. The climate crisis will cause us to think about what we can reap in Austria. That is why it is so important to me that we also support in agriculture the opportunities we have – for example, through the funding we have in the area of the common agricultural policy – to respond precisely to these challenges and to convert them in this sense, that we have a climate-based, i.e. at the end of the day, a crisis-resistant agriculture in Austria. This is important for our security of supply, but it is also important for climate protection, not only about the nature of agriculture, but also about the short supply routes and the short routes. Three other comments: On Leonding – I have already mentioned it in committee –: Several variants have been examined, I have been asked by the National Council to submit a report, and I will, of course, do so. The Brenner Base Tunnel is one of the largest construction sites for the future of mobility in Europe, not only in Austria. He is one of the central building blocks, in particular to relieve the Tyroleans of the transit, and that is a problem. This is a situation that is no longer portable, so we are working – not only in my ministry, but really the entire federal government – to put pressure on the neighbouring countries and to see that we really continue on the schedule as soon as possible. There was still the reference to the changed schedule. The construction site of the Brenner Base Tunnel had to be stopped due to Covid-19, i.e. it is now slowly rising again. The Supervisory Board of the Brennerbasistunnelgesellschaft will of course also very precisely evaluate the effects and also the new time processes. As soon as this is clear, I will of course report this with a report from the Supervisory Board, which, by the way, has been occupied with highly qualified, competent – and I am also pleased to say – women by the ÖBB infrastructure. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] To the deposit system: I would also like to repeat an invitation to the deposit system at this point: We, Secretary of State Brunner and I, invited a round table in the ministry next week, to which all the environmental speakers of the parties have also been invited to discuss a study that has set out for the Ministry, examined various variants of how we can implement the objectives set by the EU regarding collective quotas, but also – and this is a central issue – to avoid the lattice. From this study, the pledge is the most popular variant of the economy, and the question of different implementation variants has also been taken into account. We all want to invite everyone to discuss the study, discuss the content, discuss different variants, and thus start a process that – and I am back there again – should end by reaching the objectives that we are required to achieve EU law, but which are also in the sense of climate protection and in the sense of nature conservation, and which we will therefore continue to pursue with high energy and high intensity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e32235	Now you are speaking, Mr Christian Ragger. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e32256	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Thankfully, I am able to draw attention today to a subject where we stand out in Europe and are the first to work: Two years ago we managed to raise a project that is unique in Europe, namely the first customs corridor in Europe. What does that mean? We have joined forces at European level, at that time the Ministry of Infrastructure, but also the Ministry of Digitalization, to launch a development, so that we can make the customs of goods of Europe with the help of our officials on Austrian soil – we succeeded only before accession to the EU. These goods – and now we come to mobility – are transferred to Trieste by means of the Austrian railway and distributed from Trieste around the world. This is unique because it has not yet existed, but it brings us a huge opportunity and has potential for a huge development at a time of digitization. I would like to thank the Minister today for allowing the Smartlogi project to continue. We discussed it last time with Mr Schramböck that this is a huge opportunity for Austria. Why a huge chance? – Few will know that with Rail Cargo – because you always have such a half smile over the ÖBB, partly in the semi-governmental sector – the ÖBB are today market leaders in Europe. Any goods from Trieste, any goods from Venice that come from Tyrol, Carinthia or Styria – 60 percent of these goods – are transported by Rail Cargo. If we want to form a European strategic axis in rail transport in the future, we must now remember that with this customs corridor, the town of Villach and Fürnitz, where we have 200 hectares of broken economic land – Mr Weidinger is currently noding – the ultimate opportunity for the future design of Europe is given: logistical on the rail, not in the field of freight, not in the area of freight forwarders, but highly mobile with rail. We need to see this opportunity at this moment, because it also means that we gain new markets through it. You will know or in a few months you will also learn that German ports and German inland ports develop interest in the Baltic-Adriatic Corridor. Just think of Dry Port and the area of Duisburg, for example. Duisburg has six million containers to transport – every year! Today they're going over Hamburg, tomorrow over Trieste. The chance that we can use this economically is only one thing to stick to, namely by supporting our track. If we succeed, we have, I believe, set a strong signal for mobility in Austria and for the rails. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e32299	The next item is Mrs Carina Reiter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e32324	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Estimated Secretary of State! Dear viewers! The transport objectives contained in the Government Convention can be considered very ambitious. With the transport policy measures, we achieve three objectives: to ensure and improve mobility for all people in Austria, to set economic and employment impulses and to make significant contributions to climate policy in the long term. Transport policy is economic policy is climate protection policy. This is in no contradiction to one another, but one depends on the other. In particular, energy-relevant investments create much domestic employment and value added. It is important that these measures in all federal states, in urban as well as in rural regions provide impetus. Key investments in public transport and regional transport are part of the transport budget's focus. I can take two points out of this. On the one hand, the first federal funding for regional railways, the new construction of road infrastructure with regional function, new urban regional railway projects such as in the city of Salzburg are an important transport policy step in the right direction and an important impetus for our regions. Another point is the increase in private rail transport. This is a medium-term investment programme to effectively support important new and expansion projects of the private railways from the Federal Republic of Germany. This concerns 17 private railways in Austria, including the Salzburg local railway and the Pinzgau local railway. Mobility is therefore an issue that concerns all of us and which affects us all. That is why I would like to conclude with a quote from Eberhard von Kuenheim: “Mobility of people and goods is not a consequence, but the basis of our prosperity.”
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e32366	The next speaker is Mr Peter Weidinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e32387	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear Secretary of State Magnus Brunner! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians! Digitalization does not serve the purpose of itself, but is nothing but that people use modern techniques to solve problems. That is why I would like to express my express thanks to all the people in Austria who have helped to ensure that Homeoffice and Distancelearning have become such a great success. The budget, ladies and gentlemen, which we decide for technology, for innovation in this chapter, is soaked by this spirit of cooperation, namely that we invest money to enable excellence in the field of research. I am thinking of federal Comet programmes, as we see them in Villach are working in Carinthian Tech Research AG, or at companies such as Bitmovin, a Carinthian company that has opened offices from Klagenfurt in Vienna, Sao Paolo, Washington to work successfully. Let me speak on the basis: If we have top performances, we always need the width and the mass. This is a project that I was allowed to lift from baptism with the HTL Villach, namely the digital ambassadors. Students are invited to share their know-how, their knowledge, their digital skills and skills. Thus, a 16-year-old HTL student has digitized the entire folk school in which her little sister goes. She has helped the teachers to create meaningful videos, and the children have gladly gained great learning success. Ladies and gentlemen, if you take this budget into account in this chapter – it was prepared by our Mrs. Federal Minister and by our Secretary of State – then you will support a attitude based on the values of freedom, self-reliance and on a new quality of solidarity in the digital and analogue world. This will create the comeback for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e32424	The next speaker is Mr Christoph Stark. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e32448	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear Seers! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I can put a sentence here, to which I really stand completely: We can be proud of our federal capital. It is recognized worldwide in many interests. I believe that this is something that can be pointed out, which we can all be really proud of, including our Members. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But what I perceive with a certain smile right now is, as soon as you practice even a slight criticism of the Federal Capital these days, the left half or the quarter or fifth gets an allergic boost, because it is always a Majesty policy when you practice criticism. [[Call the SPÖ:... quiet criticism!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I remain, ladies and gentlemen, with the nomenclature of my colleague Mr Jeitler-Cincelli [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] Indeed, it is discrimination in recycling, a recycling discrimination that is politically controlled. That's a fact, please take note, that's not bad, it's so! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] I now come to another sector, to mobility, to which I can speak briefly about the budget today. I take up a concept of freedom of choice. Yes, we need freedom of choice in the regions of Austria, which mobility offers are to be accepted. This freedom of choice must remain. But it is up to us to create a range of mobility that we can perceive. The fact is that the more attractive an offer will be, the more people will access it. In rural areas, the car is simply not so easily replaced, as I am with you, Mrs Minister – that is so. In the meantime, however, systems have also been established – for example, I refer to a micro-oil system that has recently been introduced in East Styria, which is very successful. People have access to it because they can also save themselves in their own areas of mobility. So there are not only the ghost buses, Mr Eypeltauer, but they are functioning systems that can support mobility and thus also climate protection. Today and these days, we are deciding on a budget which is the economic, the numerical foundation. Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, I wish you every good thing for the implementation.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e32511	Next speaker: Mr Joachim Schnabel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e32535	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Estimated Secretary of State! Highlight Values and colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! I would like to start with a positive figure at the beginning: plus 23 percent. This value, plus 23 percent, is the amount to be invested more in the infrastructure at the federal level. In total, the figure is 6.3 billion euros, of which substantial parts flow into the sub-division discussed here. In 2020, 900 million euros will be allocated to the development of rail infrastructure, road network, cable infrastructure, but also – and this has often been said here – to the development of cycle routes. However, this regulation budget, which has been decided here in Bälden, also includes economic packages, such as the 300 million euro public transport expansion package. Rural areas – I come from rural areas – are particularly supported by the expansion of regional railways. Thus, in my home region, the south-west Styria, the construction of the Koralmbahn, as well as the electrification of the Graz-Köflacher Bahn will be implemented – decarbonisation. In addition, as Mr Stark mentioned, we have also installed a strong micro-oil system in my region. Another important package that is important for infrastructure and climate protection – I would like to address as mayor here – is the community package presented on Monday. I would like to thank Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz and Finance Minister Blümel personally for the talks we were allowed to hold. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] This one-billion euro package allows us communities to have planning security at the end of the lockdown and to invest for the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We can make investments for the region in a wide range – in my region, three districts – that is, 21 million euros that will flow – and we can give jobs to entrepreneurs and thus also secure and create jobs in the region. In total, all these packages and the budget bring measures and billions of investment into the economy, which are well invested in the economy and in the future, but also in climate protection. Take all this as a positive signal, a positive signal for a strong comeback in Austria, a strong comeback as well as the federal states and municipalities, these are the backbone of the regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e32592	Next speaker: Mr Lukas Brandweiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e32617	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners at home in front of the screens! The corona pandemic has shown us the challenges, but also the possibilities of digitization. We have just experienced at home office and at video conferences that we have saved ourselves many kilometers and thus helped the environment. However, in order to be able to use the opportunities of digitalisation further and even more, it needs appropriate digital infrastructure, a good broadband network. Assigned: At home at the main table I am very happy if not always the mobile phone is created, but for our companies, for the employees in the home office as well as of course for private use we need a good digital infrastructure. Of the broadband billions decided on in 2013, 800 million euros have already been allocated in projects and will be invested this year, especially in rural areas. Especially in my forest district, there are many great communities in which we have a very good network, but there are still too many communities where there is a need to catch up. That is why I would also like to send a great deal of thanks to my home country, namely Lower Austria. In addition, Land and municipalities invest 100 million euros in broadband development. I would like to thank you for this as well as for the roadmap for a comprehensive broadband network. At this point I also appeal to the network operators, because especially in the sparsely populated regions, it is often blocked from the outset: This does not pay off for us! when one opens up settlements in these communities and the communities themselves move glass fibres, several network operators come and want to put in their pipes. That is, in the centres we often have several lines, in the villages outside we have nothing. No one understands! I call on the network operators to support us and, above all, that, if they have support, they also comply with and go into implementation. Ladies and gentlemen! Broadband development is an essential investment in the future in our regions, it is a life of the economy and, of course, becomes an essential factor in mobility. Federal, Länder and Communities are required, but I am convinced: Together we create a good digital infrastructure for our future.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e32656	I am now no longer in favour of these sub-divisions. I will end the discussions on this subject. Thank you very much, Mrs. Geessler. Thank you, Mr Brunner. [[12:07:16]] UG 14: Military Affairs
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e32680	This leads us to the sub-division 14: Military affairs. I welcome Mrs Germany's Minister for Foreign Affairs, Claudia Tanner, to the Parliament and to give the floor to Mr Robert Laimer as the first speaker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e32708	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Elder notification: Good news for the fake budget! Thank you, dear Jörg Leichtfried, and also thank all the lawyers and my comrades in the club. As has been reported a few minutes ago, today's and also yesterday's recapitulated day have actually come under completely wrong conditions, as there will be improvements in the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of my speech, I would like to extend a great deal of praise and thanks to the soldiers, the militia and, above all, to the basic military servants, who demonstrate more than impressively their loyalty to Austria and their commitment to Austria in times of crisis like a rock in the fire. Thank you all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Minister, believe me, the opposition is agreed – perhaps so united as never before – that the Austrian army expects and deserves sincerity and honesty from politics. Mrs. Minister, where should I start? The sludge of your policy covers the entire state defense and begins chronologically with the Eurofighter lubrication scandal, the Although you have inherited – that is clear – but unfortunately it does not indicate that you are creating clarity. Only verbal smoking Colts towards Airbus do not help in the biggest action to recover Austrian taxpayers. As regards the important tasks of the federal army, the current inadequacy and the missing visions in the practical implementation of the primary tasks of our state defense and your noble restraint are also frightening when it comes to budget negotiations with your party colleague Blümel when it comes to the necessary funding for the federal army. In addition, another Murks is used for military use. Have Full Power Together with the Federal Chancellor, she announced the greatest mobilization of the militia in the Second Republic. - There was nothing out of it. It took two months for the first soldiers to get used to, which was then only done in a very speculated mini version. At that time, Mrs. Minister, the peak of virus spread had long been exceeded. It was open to the innhouses, the shops locked up again. Even some of the country's police directors have now no longer known how and where to use the military soldiers at all. Ladies and gentlemen! One cannot imagine, and does not want to imagine, that, for example, there is a nationwide blackout, which is flashy. Let's assume we're without electricity and water for several days. At the pace that has now been presented at the gathering of the militia, we would have experienced the collapse of the supply of Austria rather than the active help of the German army with the militia. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Minister, this is not the only full-bodied announcement we have heard from you. Also the explanations of the army budget were initially promising, but they turned out to be more illuminating than turquoise flop. It is not enough for a country that has become known for ever-increasing neutrality, to stage rather than act for the interests of the federal army. Due to the complex international security situation, it is probably a match with the fire if comprehensive national defence can no longer be guaranteed. Minister! The Starlinger Strategy Paper must be the basis for our actions in the field of national defence. That is why I am not turning away from the demand to increase the national defence budget. For this day I expect you to make improvements and a significant increase in the budget, just as before the National Council election, a clear majority in the House has done so. Finally, it is also necessary to decide politically how active airspace monitoring is ensured. Heuer's deadline. The militia is absolutely strengthened, it is indispensable and an equivalent arm of our federal army. There I am for a paradigm change: Mobility instead of inferiority, as currently in two months of Covid's deployment plan. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: The speech is inferior!]] The Federal Army's cyberdefence activities need to be intensified and expanded. An attack, which continues for weeks, like the Austrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, must no longer take place in the future. Austria must be prepared for blackouts. To give the population a greater sense of security, so-called security islands used in the event of need would be of great benefit. I think it's also very important to rethink the caputt saving of the army hospitals. On the contrary, we need to invest there, for example, to set up epidemic centres due to the current situation and this will also be important for the future. The whole federal army is a great challenge for all of us in red and white red. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e32758	Next speaker: Mr Michael Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e32780	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I shall now, after this inferior speech by Mr Laimer, who was simply a piece of various things, go into the topic of national defence. [[Call the SPÖ:Hello!]] The Federal Government – which I would like to say in the first place – and this has always been said in the last few days at the general debate – has put some very big priorities in the budget. One of them is security, and there will definitely be more money for the area of internal security, which we discussed yesterday, but above all for the Austrian federal army in this budget. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] These additional resources are also urgently needed for the defence of the state. We see it in the current situation, which tasks and competences the Austrian Federal Army has and which tasks it has to fulfil. It is also important and necessary – you see now – to have a strategic reserve. In such cases, the Austrian Federal Army is the security guarantee and can really help if others can no longer afford it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] Before I go into the budget in detail, however, I would like to say the following: What it also needs for the Austrian federal army and for the state defense, apart from the money, is that you stand to the Austrian federal army and to the state defense and always strengthen the Austrian federal army's backs. It is not appropriate to do so if, due to a single anonymous entry into a housing situation in the case of the SPÖ spokespersons, it falls through the Austrian army and the soldiers in an incompetent manner, without looking at the situation on the spot. That's really last-class and embarrassing! [[Abg. Vogl: Last-class is...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Greiner.]] It means standing behind the German army and not falling in a press release about the Austrian Federal Army. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is the summit of embarrassment! The Federal Parliamentary Committee has looked at the situation on the ground and found that there is professional accommodation and professional work, and the SPÖ spokesperson has fallen over the German army in a totally undifferentiated manner. - That's not the way it is, that's inappropriate! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] But now I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the federal army members and all those who now serve – whether it is basic military personnel, whether they are civilians, because they are also in use, or, of course, the militia – for their use and to congratulate them on what is being done. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] For the budget in detail: With EUR 2.54 billion in 2020, it is the highest defense budget we've ever had; that's just a fact. The very decisive thing is – and this also distinguishes the plans from the previous ones – that in the following years we have a pure defence budget at this level. These are around 400 million euros more than in the federal financial framework laws that still come from the Doskozil era or from the Kunasek era. It is also important to have a large budget and to focus on special investment packages for which there are also corresponding commitments. Two areas in which we really need investment in the next few years are, of course, the equipment and the militia. In this area today, we will put forward a motion for a resolution which will eliminate social disadvantages in the field of militia. A second essential point – which has shown itself in the crisis, it has also been addressed the issue of blackout – is simply to strengthen the resilience, the resilience of the Austrian federal army, the barracks infrastructure. We shall put in place a joint motion for a resolution by the Government parties in order to put an emphasis there on the need to strengthen the sustainability accordingly. I can now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is an essential point in the area of militia. Finally, Mrs Bundesminister, I should like to thank you very much, very much, for the negotiations on the defence budget and also for showing daily how to stand behind the Austrian army as a minister and to be on the ground with the troops. This is particularly important in times like this and is highly appreciated. I can thank you very, very much. I think we have a good basis with these budgets and can secure investments in the area of national defence in the future, which is also necessary. – Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[12:19]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e32928	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Reinhard Eugen Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e32952	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hammer has stated that this Federal Government is focusing on security policy. This may be the case in the Ministry of the Interior – we reach a budget of about 3.3 billion euros there – but this is unfortunately not the case with regard to the national defence budget of God. With these figures – and I do not mean you – you will have already tried, Mrs Federal Minister, that I mean your party, because I have known it for many years now on this issue – the appeal of Mr. General Chief of Staff from spring last year, and you also ignore the clear figures put on the table with the concept of Our Army 2030. They are making small progress in terms of budget figures for 2020. This small excess of 2.5 billion euros is due to old packages already from your It is a matter for the Commission and the Council of Ministers of the European Communities to take action in this area. And we'll break down again, my dear colleague Hammer, to less than EUR 2.5 billion from next year. This is far, far below the amounts needed to ensure the further development of the Austrian federal army. I should therefore like to allow myself to make a three-party request to confirm that a large part of the National Council, a large part of the Austrian national representation, does not agree with the budgetary figures you put on the table in relation to the national defence for this year. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We put this request in charge of the security of our Republic. We read in your government program, Mrs. Federal Minister, that you are also projecting the “Safety and Development [...] of the Austrian Federal Government, taking into account the chances of entry of threat scenarios”. This is a beautiful sentence, which no one can have against, even I not, just: We know this sentence as an indication that, in the context of this further development, the Austrian Federal Army is severely damaged in its structures. We have experienced this in the last decades, and we fear it in your time of government. We fear that you will be in Their time of government continues to shut down the structure of the federal army and that no more talk can be of the strategic reserve of action for the Republic. You should be guided by the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, by the Federal Constitution. That is not nothing, the constitution of our Republic! There are the priorities in there, there are the tasks of the Austrian federal army inside, for example the state defense. I can remind you that in Europe a war, a conventional war, is raging in Ukraine. I should like to remind you that many European states, including the European Union, are no longer building up structures but, on the contrary, rebuilding conventional military structures to be equipped. We will have to do the same. I can remind you of the Federal Government's ability to assist you. We have now experienced a pandemic and an unprepared federal army. We have to expect mass migration again, we have to expect terrorism again, we have to expect a blackout – Mr Laimer has responded – and we want to set up security islands. I agree with this request that the government parties will make today. That's an old demand from us. This has already been stated in our joint government programme. Why should we not agree? We'll do it. Ladies and gentlemen! As a third party, we have the foreign operations we need to ensure. However, this requires a structure of the army capable of doing so. Loyalty, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, is not a one-way street. If we demand the soldiers to do their job, we must provide them with the basics. This requires policy, and you are obliged to do so by the government party ÖVP. We have to provide the soldiers with the necessary basics for their excellent work, we have a satisfactory salary situation, we have to clean up the barracks, we have the car situation to improve, we have the night vision to improve the self-protection of the soldier. All these things, ladies and gentlemen of the EIA, will not or will not be satisfactory with this budget. That is why this budget and its policies are not a further development of the Austrian security policy as a whole, but they are a responsible step backwards. We will continue to strive, the opposition parties will endeavour to amend this policy with a view to a reasonable security policy of the Republic. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[12:25]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e33135	The motion for a resolution is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr David Stögmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e33163	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I thought about it in my speech: In fact, in recent months, a lot has happened in the area of the Federal Government since your fishing observation. I recall the Eurofighters, the discussion on airspace surveillance, the assistance agencies, and the military convocation that happened for the first time in the Second Republic. The Milize convocation is also the first issue I would like to address. It shows us that the German army is no longer just facing classical military challenges, but has new challenges. That was the reason for me to look at things in the national defence budget with a view to a very central question: What kind of federal army do we need in the future, and what does it need? Personally, I think we need a federal army that can respond to modern threats such as cyberattacks or hybrid threats. I do not give you the right or the right one, Mr President. [[towards Abg. Welsh]] Of course, this also needs to be done, but we have new challenges, new threats. Wars happen not only outside the field, but also on the Internet. There are new hybrid challenges which cannot be clearly defined and which can include several areas of application. This also applies to natural disasters that are facing us in the course of climate change and which will strengthen and meet us more often. The Federal Army can protect, support and help the civilian population – a federal army that is not paralysed by a blackout – I give it to you, a federal army that is as diverse as our Austrian population. The national defence budget also reflects these wishes, as I think, in aspects. As you know, a total of EUR 2.5 billion is planned for 2020. This is a plus of 10 percent – 10 percent, that's not little! I am particularly pleased that it is planned that almost 50 million euros will be invested in cybersecurity and 15 million euros in mobility growth. In addition to measures designed to strengthen and support women in the federal army, there are also those that ensure better equipment for the military. I think that is essential, because the military soldiers, who are currently in use, deserve not only our thanks, but also a equipment that protects them sufficiently and supports them in their work. And yes, I say it clearly today, because it has been applied to me very often in the last few days: I also see a problem in that when I hear that Miliz safety vests, safety holsters or even flashlights, as it was called in a broadcast, are missing. That's not a state I'd like to have at the militia. That is why I am very glad that in the government programme, we have clearly agreed on upgrading the militia and providing it better. Even now, we need to improve and correct the failures of the past few years or, better said, decades – and you have the same guilt. You can't do that within a few weeks, but it needs a longer preparation. Today we are taking the first step. Mr Hammer and I are putting forward a motion for a resolution – Mr Hammer has already tabled it – which provides that the militia should be strengthened by the removal of social disadvantages. I think that's good and important. However, I would like to mention in the same breath that it is also important for me to think of the basic military servants and civil servants, in whom we see the same social disadvantages that we would like to have solved. We will do that with the next steps. But I would like to come back to my previous point. One point, which is also very important to me, is that the failure of the critical infrastructure can result in the fact that even the central tasks of the federal army cannot be fulfilled. The colleague from the SPÖ has already mentioned this: For example, think of a blackout, a nationwide power failure for several days. The crisis shows us just how important it is that the federal army infrastructure remains operational, efficient and effective regardless of the civil infrastructure. That is why we are still making a request today, calling for the self-sufficiency of barracks to continue to be strengthened. For a sustainable federal army, we need autarchic barracks, which can provide itself with electricity, water and resources over a longer period of time. For this reason, I would like to make the following request for a sustainable German army: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would also like to say thank you once again for the work done and for the cooperation in dealing with the corona crisis to all the basic military servants, all the military soldiers and all the staff in the Austrian Federal Army. In this crisis, the German army has clearly shown that it is always ready to support the population as much as possible by means of assistance. Thank you. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[12:31]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e33298	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Douglas Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e33325	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear spectators at home! We are now discussing the Federal Army budget and discussed it at the Committee on Budgets last week. In the end, I asked you a question: What is the vision you have yourself? Where do you want to go? I did not really know your answer at the Budget Committee meeting at that time, and I do not really know how your vision has been. for the Austrian federal army, which the ÖVP and also the Greens are involved in your government programme. This budget is the same. This budget in the Federal Army is simply visionless. First of all, you have to ask yourself the question: Where do we want to go with the Austrian army? What tasks should the Austrian Federal Army fulfil and how should it fulfil? There are, of course, a lot of questions. Her predecessor interim minister, Starlinger, has already shown where the priorities would be acceptable here and what resources would be needed, only in this budget can one see nothing of them. Nothing has entered this budget at all. We have no solution to the aircraft problem. We know you've announced a lot, Eurofighter or Airbus will get to know you. The Eurofighter post-purchasing question has not been clarified. The question of alouette has not been clarified. All these are questions that are not shown in the budget. It is not clear where the journey with the Austrian federal army is to go. In parallel to this discussion, which we have here regularly and which, I believe, we should lead more intensively, namely what plan we have with the Austrian Federal Army, then emerge from your ministry of papers like this: ‘Vision Regional Defence 2020’. This is a paper held by the Secretary-General on 9 April, which he believes is the basis for orientation as to how it should continue. When you browse this paper, it sounds rather nice. It is well written, there are also few errors inside, at least few spelling errors, but if you look at them in detail, you ask yourself a very crucial question as a parliamentarian: Isn't this a realignment of the ÖSS, the Austrian Security Strategy? That's it. The Austrian Security Strategy, which has been discussed and decided here in the House of Lords across all parties, is now simply thrown over the pile, namely by a Secretary General who produces any paper here, leaves it in his ministry and makes it the basis for strategic planning. And, of course, nothing other than a paper or a budget that is visionless again. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Tireberger.]] In addition, the question needs to be asked in general: What is happening about the Secretary-General? That's where you hear all kinds of things. I can't and don't want to evaluate them either, but it's heard that he's planning that the federal army be transferred to a pure assistant army. Then you have to ask yourself the question: What is that, and is it really worth the money you pay for it? It is said that he wants only a budget of 2 billion euros for the Austrian federal army and wants to cut down a quarter of the positions that are planned. I do not know whether this is true or not, but if that is true, then we must seriously debate whether we should not lock the Austrian Federal Army, because in such a form it is really a pity for money, or whether we are working together to bring Austria forward and also to carry on security in Austria and, accordingly, to take the ÖSS seriously, for example. You also write in your government program, you confess to neutrality and so on. So quite honestly: With this paper, neutrality is thrown over the pile. [[Keeping a document in height]] This is a discussion that can be held, but with this paper certainly not! [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Y ılmaz.]] The previous speakers discussed various areas that are important. The issue of blackout security always comes again and again, of course, also the topic of cybersecurity. I looked at that. Here again, in this strategic basis, as it is called in the arrangement, the topic of cyber threat occurs, there are whole five lines. The paper has twelve pages, it's five rows. Today we are constantly exposed to cyber-attacks. We have had a cyber-attack to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs this year, and we have recently had a data leak. There are now rumours that data from the Austrian citizens are available on the Internet, in the Dark Web. We're not prepared for it. This not only concerns you, but also, of course, the BMI, where appropriate measures need to be taken. We see again and again, however, that we are not prepared for cyberattacks and the modern danger situation that is there. Especially at a time of crisis, when we know that hospitals and other health institutions in particular are at risk, and that – we know that from other countries, and there are enough studies to do so – it would be time for us to deal seriously with this issue and not just surfacely address it in five lines in some strategy papers that are torpedoing alongside Parliament. We need to work on a sustainable basis, and we also need to show this in the budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e33414	Mrs. Claudia Tanner has now spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e33435	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In recent weeks and months, all of us have been very much called for by the corona crisis. The Austrian army was particularly required. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schnedlitz.]] Since the outbreak of the Corona pandemic, 4 000 soldiers have been in service at home and abroad. They deserve a very, very great thank you at this point. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens, as well as on Mr Silva and Mr Meinl-Reisinger.]] The military has completed numerous assistance missions, provided support and still does so, because the crisis is not over. These corona operations are diverse, ranging from the security police assistants at the border to the support of health authorities to assistance to the operation of relevant infrastructure. They all know the current use of the German army by the example of several hundred staff members who have taken part in the logistics centres of the Post in Hagenbrunn and Inzersdorf, after numerous employees had been ill there. Yes, the Corona crisis has made two particularly historic measures necessary: On the one hand, we had to extend the ground defense service for 2 316 groundmen, young men, by two months, on the other hand we had to carry out a partial mobility of the militia for the first time in the history of Austria with 13 hunters, the beginning of May, more precisely on 4. May, to the federal army. I would also like to thank all those affected for their commitment to Austria, for the safety of Austrians. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] It was always important to me to be in the troop from the beginning. So I was allowed to be there yesterday at the Jägerbataillon 33 in Zwölfaxing, when we gave symbolic thanks to the pitchers and approved of them. It was also good to see that there were quite a few who could be enthusiastic about the Austrian army during this time. The Austrian federal army is the strategic reserve of the Republic, which has no doubt been seen again in the corona operations. From this example alone, ladies and gentlemen, there is a wide range of financial needs and needs. A similar case is undoubtedly the preparation for the military management of blackout scenarios, linked to the protection of critical infrastructure to maintain the livelihoods of the population, because such situations in which the German army, in addition to its standard tasks on assistance services and, yes, also for support to cope with crises, can occur at any time. In addition to pandemics and blackout scenarios, cyberattacks and other hybrid challenges of our time threaten. I can only remind you here of the example at the beginning of my term of office, of the cyberattack to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs a few months ago. This was undoubtedly a dimension that has never been the case: a cyber-attack to a state institution that has occupied the specialists, specialists for weeks. They know that even there we were able to assist the Ministry of the Interior in the investigation and defense of this huge cyber-attack. You see, ladies and gentlemen, the Austrian Federal Army needs sustainable resources and structures, modern equipment and new equipment for its diverse tasks. Let us jointly look at the following – and perhaps I can illustrate this to you here: The National Defence Region is a company, a large company, a security provider, because it is very similar to complex companies. It provides considerable and very different services to protect Austria. The Ministry of Defence is an Austrian security provider who operates multinationally, engaged in more than ten missions. The Austrian Federal Army provides protection and assistance for the Austrians and beyond in all situations of life. We are a training organisation that, in addition to the military officers and the training, continuing and further training of employees, also train young women and men in the most diverse teaching professions – from aircraft mechanics to cooks. The Federal Government's training facilities also provide training for other countries. Yes, and we are also an airline, with an air fleet of more than 120 different aircraft including several airfields. The German army independently and autonomously monitors the Austrian airspace. We are also a transport company, with more than 6 500 wheel vehicles in use. We're an industrial company. We obtain complex goods, such as machines of all kinds, special vehicles, personal equipment, and these goods are stored, assigned and maintained. We operate technical expertise centres, aircraft yards and several large-scale maintenance companies and workshops. And yes, we are also an ICT provider, different information and communication technology systems and services are operated. We also serve 300 properties. We are an Austrian real estate management company. You see, ladies and gentlemen, the state defence resort includes a huge range of tasks and abilities and, following them, has a need for equipment, equipment and other resources to be able to fulfill all these orders and missions – and all this requires financial resources. There is no doubt that much has been neglected in the past. But it's about the most important thing: It is about the security of Austria, the security of all of us! But I also say here – I am a realist enough – that what has stood up for decades certainly cannot be replaced with a single annual budget. The new budget for Corona will certainly not be able to meet all the wishes. I don't want to put anything in front of you or myself. Unfortunately, we are not the only resort that undoubtedly needs money. The positive news today is: The Federal Government's financial resources are to be significantly increased this year. [[Abg. Lightness: What does that mean?]] In the field of military affairs, the draft budget for 2020 is EUR 2,545 billion. [[Abg. Lightenness: What does the flower say about it?]] This means increasing the funds by 258 million euros more than in the previous year. We will get more money for the personnel sector, for the work, for investments in the field of militia and mobility – so you decide here. In addition, there is an additional budget increase for long-term investments when we think of transport capacities in the air, when we think of the need to continue the assistance of our Austrian federal army. A few concrete figures: As far as the federal financial framework is concerned, for example, the special packages Black Hawk – EUR 62.5 million in the years 2020 to 2021 –, mobility – EUR 15 million in 2020 – and the Miliz – EUR 17.5 million in 2020 – find their rainfall. In addition, a new special investment was projected to increase operational readiness in 2021 to 2023. Allow me just a few words about these special financings! One of these special loans concerns the purchase of three additional black Hawk helicopters of a total of EUR 62.5 million, i.e. EUR 37.5 million for the 2020 budget. Another special financing concerns the military package with the procurement of 200 MAN-Lastwägen by a total of 52 million euros. For the present budget 2020, 17.5 million euros apply to this. Yes, and another special investment is the mobility package project, with which various types of trucks, replacement vehicles for the off-road Puch G, are purchased, among other things, 15 million euros in this budget. Special investments for air transport capacity will be planned for the coming years from 2021 by a total of 341 million euros, 320 million of which will be financed separately. For the most part, this procurement is intended to be a substitute for the alouette III helicopters. We've seen one at the coronas: We need a lot of manpower. Therefore, it is also urgent to get more ground defense servants. Among other things, we want to achieve this with the introduction of the two stages of fitness – partiality and full suitability. There is no doubt, however, that we also need to make the basic defence service and the military building on it better equipped, more attractive. Yes, this is also part of the government's programme, and this also requires financial resources: around EUR 26 million in the 2020 budget year for the attraction of the basic defence service, especially in the infrastructure sector. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Army proves daily 24/7 that it is the strategic reserve of the Republic. One thing has become clear since the experience of the past weeks and months during the Corona crisis: We must invest in security at several levels in the state of Austria. There can be no security at zero rate. – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e33507	Mr Manfred Hofinger has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e33528	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, we're discussing the defense budget today. One could briefly sum it up this way: 2.5 billion euros – an increase of 230 million euros, a total of 10 percent increase, more budget resources for the German army. This is a significant increase, especially in the effort to reduce the backlog, which is long due. - That's how the budget could be summarized. I would like to congratulate you, Minister of State, on this. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Ernst-Dziedzic.]] This also shows that the government is well aware of the area of defence. You also know, of course, that the security of the population and the strategic reserve of the German army – which has shown above all the current disaster – are very important. Especially in such a crisis situation, it is all the more important that a functioning federal army ensure order, security and stability in the state. Our federal army has done a very good job in recent months and has had a decisive part to play in overcoming the crisis so well. – Thank you very much to all those involved! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The threats are becoming increasingly diverse; cybercrime has been addressed today. These attacks are increasing and, of course, we need more and more budget resources. We are fully aware of this, and therefore we are investing in the militia, in the mobility as a whole, in cyberdefence, but also in airspace surveillance and, of course, in the appeal of the Federal Minister for Defence. [[Abg. Vogl: The attraction of the groundmen? How's it going?]] I believe that this is a very essential area in which we need to invest in order to be prepared for these challenges in the future. I would like to take out a small part of the budget, which seems particularly important to me, and that is the restructuring of the barracks. This is budgeted at EUR 17 million. In the present situation, I consider this to be very important – first of all to promote the regional economy, but also to motivate the force. Mrs Minister, I would also like to congratulate you on this: You really fill your office as a Federal Minister with life, you're outside the troops, and that's what the people outside feel. This is a very important contribution. I would like to highlight briefly the Tiener-Kaserne Ried in my constituency, which was fully used in the crisis period – also with the militia. They were even housed in the Jahnturnhalle because they didn't have room. They have done very good work in border protection. I would like to point out, in conjunction with the barracks renovations, that there is also a renovation in Ried, which is already planned and should now be implemented quickly. We are looking forward to this. We are, I believe, on a very good path with this budget. Mrs Bundesminister, I should like to congratulate you once again on this budget during this crisis period, and I wish all of us a good way forward for the security of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e33577	Next speaker: Mrs Petra Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e33601	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! In advance, there are some interesting new developments at the budget of our Minister for Finance: He needs to improve. – Of course, we are happy when something comes in the corridors. Now the military budget. In every crisis in Austria – whether it is a storm, a flood or, at the very moment, a health crisis – it becomes particularly visible which tasks our federal army and thus also our basic military servants in Austria have. They will always be used if assistance is needed in a large style, whether as support for floods or at present – as Mrs. Minister has said – for the support of the Austrian Post. I would like to thank all the basic defence servants who are currently doing a lot of things. – You make an important contribution to our society! [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Ernst-Dziedzic.]] In order for the basic defence servants and all the employees of the state defense to be able to perform their service well, it also needs a corresponding accommodation in addition to other conditions. The rapid use of the federal army is only possible if the buildings and equipment are in a corresponding good condition. To this end, it is also necessary to maintain the existing sites, and to preserve them also means to maintain them accordingly and to make the financial resources available for them. They are training companies, they are employers, they are an essential factor in the economy of the region. We also need our sites as a security island for the population, for example, in a blackout – as mentioned above – to ensure the safety and emergency care of the population. A rapid mobilization and the barracks as a security island are essential for the people to feel secure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Austrian Federal Army has been under-financed for decades, and the budget figures presented by you, Mrs. Minister, continue this path of sub-financing. This budget means less federal army, less-usable soldiers, less equipment, no reforms and too little investment in dealing with new threats such as cybercrime. Mrs Minister, it is urgently necessary to increase the budget submitted as a result of the crisis and to increase the rule budget to EUR 3 billion from 2021 onwards.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e33655	Next speaker: Mrs Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e33677	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Whether peacekeeping, humanitarian or disaster aid: The Austrian federal army – you mentioned it – also helps abroad where it can. There are hundreds of soldiers standing in the service of peace day after day. They are thousands a year, and I want to make them visible today, and I would like to thank them, as do those who are working domestically. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Since 1960, that is, for exactly 60 years, Austria has been participating in peace missions. I just want to take three out: In Sarajevo, for example, we are dealing with the stabilisation of the military aspects of the Paris peace agreement and with the permanent military presence in order to prevent a new threat to peace on the ground. In Prishtina we are dealing with maintaining security in Kosovo on the basis of UN resolution 1244 by means of safeguards. And since 2008, after a decision of the EU Foreign Ministers, Austrian soldiers have also been sent to Tbilisi for an observer mission. From 1989/90, after the end of the Cold War, these foreign missions became one of the most important tasks for the German army in view of the changed international situation. The disaster aid, for example, is an area where Austria not only has a very long tradition, but has also been a real leader in the construction of infrastructure. This development is closely linked to the development of the Austrian federal army. The foreign operations were for a long time something you didn't necessarily want to do. In the meantime, we know, there are many who – in order to say the salopp – are really tearing themselves to be able to do it. That is, the value of this has increased. In my view, this is not only a long tradition of active foreign policy in Austria, but also the principle of as active a participation as possible in these international peacekeeping measures. It is important to me to note in the debate on the German army that security and peace are not only the absence of violence, conflict and fighting, but, in addition to the military component of the blue helmets, which are used, for example, for the observance of ceasefires or in buffer zones between conflict parties, the civil component has become increasingly important in recent decades. In this context, I would like to refer to an important resolution that is celebrating this anniversary. In fact, in 2000, the United Nations Security Council unanimously adopted Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security. It has been a first UN resolution that highlights not only the special impact of conflicts on women but also the active role of women in all phases of peace efforts, from peace negotiations to the reconstruction of destroyed societies. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The Austrian Federal Government presented a first national action plan in 2007, and the last government did not adopt the tenth implementation report until October 2019. We have agreed to make these measures particularly the ones for which Austria is strong during the anniversary year. It needs it, and there I am at the budget, of course also resources. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Why? – As said, peace is not only the absence of violence, but also a long process in which the civilian population needs just as much as state actors, but also actors, just as the resolution makes it quite visible. That means it. needs the whole society and the self-understanding that we use the federal army in such a way that it is useful to all people. In this sense: Thank you for your commitment! We as the Greens stick to this issue. I mentioned the Civil Peace Service yesterday, and the resolution mentioned is also a heart concern to me. In this sense, thank you very much for your efforts, let us stay with them! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e33750	The next speaker is Mr MMag. DDr. Hubert Fuchs. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e33774	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Estimated Austrians! For the UG 14 military affairs in the financing budget, the draft 2020 federal estimate provides for payments of EUR 2.55 billion. This is basically gratifying, but unfortunately the trend for the following years is going in the wrong direction. The ratio of fixed costs to variable costs, i.e. the ratio of personnel and operating costs on the one hand, and investments on the other, on the other, is particularly worrying. Regrettably, in order to cover the increasing staff and operating costs, financial resources had to be deducted from the investment area over and over again in order to maintain everyday operations at all. Despite the numerous investment packages in recent years, there is still an investment backlog in the Austrian Federal Army, particularly in the area of military equipment, equipment, but also the barracks infrastructure. By the decades of sub-financing, the German army is far from being able to fulfil its core task, the military defence, as defined by the Federal Constitution, even in an attempt to do so. On the occasion of the use of the Miliz in Vorarlberg, military commander Brigadier Hessel aptly described the equipment condition of the Miliz this Monday. I can quote him: “The militia has been neglected. We needed the present forces and their equipment to prepare the spleen at all. On the one hand, there is a lack of man equipment, such as protective vests, safety holsters or flashlights. But there is also a lack of vehicles and ICT equipment. In principle, you have to use a company present to put into service a military presence." I hope that due to the military package, but also the mobility package – both of which were still launched by Federal Minister Kunasek – such shortcomings can be addressed in the future. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At the time, I have not only experienced the appreciation and attitude of the ÖVP to the federal army in the government negotiations, but also reflected in the current federal financial framework law and, of course, in the black and green government programme. If you read through the chapter National Defence in the Black-Green Government Programme, you can see: There is nothing there about military national defence. I can quote page 225: “The financial situation and state of the federal army require new concepts for a forward-looking, modern army. Therefore, the tasks, structures and resources of national defence must also be further developed and modernized.” [[Abg. Ernst-Dziedzic: What's wrong with that?]] What's wrong with that? – This is a dangerous threat. The chairman of the National Defence Committee has already made such statements, which is nothing but a demilitarization of the German army. The organization of the Austrian federal army is not to be adapted to the budget, but only to the federal constitution, in which Austria confesses itself in Article 9a B-VG for comprehensive national defence. And whoever deviates from it breaks the Constitution. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this sense, it is essential that the budget of the Austrian federal army rise to 3 billion euros by 2021. Major procurement projects, such as the active airspace surveillance aircraft, shall be covered by special investment packages in addition to the rule budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e33823	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Friedrich Ofenauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e33847	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs. Defence Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! Mr Fuchs, I have to contradict you at the beginning, because you say that the government programme would not contain military national defence. It is already a bit lurky at my expression, but it is clear that “it must be assured” that “the German army is sufficiently financial, human and material in order to continue to be able to meet the challenges of the present, but also the threats of the future”. [[Showing an expression of the corresponding chapter of the government programme]] Furthermore, it is about improving the “useability [...] target-oriented and making basic defence and civil service more attractive”, and so on. So your statements must be rejected. [[Abg. Kassinger: Where is there “military defense”?! Read meaningfully!]] [[Call of the Abg. Ernst-Dziedzic.]] As Minister of Defense, it is really interesting for you as Minister of Defense to change quickly, in which threats also change quickly. The German army is indeed faced with major challenges: the budget – that is – of the staff and of the projects. In the budget we planned 2.5 billion euros, which is at least 10 percent more than 2019 – therefore a warm congratulations, a congratulations to this partial success on an even longer path. With this we create trucks by 38.5 million euros, helicopters by 33 million euros and can also improve cybersecurity in which we invest 47 million euros. At this point a warm thanks also to the militia and to the basic defense servants. One sees that it is important that there is someone who takes over tasks when others hit their borders – in the sense of a strategic reserve of the Republic. To the staff: A major challenge is also the wave of retirement. I am, however, seeking to use this as an opportunity to create opportunities – for example, in the form of training – to attract the service as a time soldier. Time soldiers should then be able to move to a civil profession if they are no longer suitable for field use, in order to be able to bring in their knowledge in the security and military fields, including to strengthen the resistance and civil protection concept, which, as we have seen in this crisis, is also very important. I also wish you all the best and good luck in implementing the projects that I would like to mention briefly: Development of cyberdefence, further development of the position road to the health road – very important –, partial capability to have more basic defenses available. I wish you all the best in the implementation of these projects and also a lot of success; we need them and above all the Austrian Federal Army can also need them.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e33896	Mr MMag has made an actual correction. DDr. Fuchs in word. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e33920	My previous speaker, Mr Ofenauer, has claimed that the concept of military defence is contained in the black and green government programme. I'm actually correcting: The term military defence is not included in the black and green government programme.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e33971	Mr Rudolf Silvan has now been reported on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e33996	Mr. President! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! 2.55 billion euros of budget plus 230 million euros, that sounds great, but is that still true? Yesterday, the Minister of Finance came here and suddenly defended his budget for bending and breaking, and now, just a few minutes ago, about half an hour ago, Finance Minister Blümel, according to Vienna's newspaper, suddenly initiates – admission to debt, budget is being improved. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] The question is: Could it be that the Minister of Finance is overwhelmed with his role as Minister of Finance? [[Call the SPÖ:Yes!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] Mrs. Minister, it is to be welcomed that you want to increase the proportion of women in the German army, the proportion of female soldiers from 4.6 percent to 15 percent. You have done some things in your answer to my question, how you want to do this: They want to make women fit for the army, they want to strengthen women so that they can perform as soldiers, they want targeted training, they should be recruited as information officers in order to be able to use them as brand ambassadors. – For me, it looks as if you think women are important to the federal army, but somehow they should serve as a cleaning-up. If that is the case, then I would say, discrimination. I hope it's not. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Hammer said earlier in his statement that everything was in order regarding the use of the federal army members in the distribution centre of the post, and he also stated that the Parliamentary Federal Heroic Commission was on the ground and everything was perfect. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] I don't know where the news comes from, which means that several hundred people have to share a few showers and have to stay at some of them on camping chairs. The fact is, I believe that it should not be the task of the federal army to support a listed company. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Kassinger.]] I think the post has enough time to find among the more than 500 000 unemployed people. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] And: Post pays 10.20 euros per hour to the German army. [[Call the SPÖ:Ui!]] - That's a rooster. It finally belongs to successful service contracts! Please stop this, together with the competent Minister Blümel and also with Federal Chancellor Kurz! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Please stop that! [[Call at SPÖ:... aid...!]] Just keep up and take responsibility! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e34105	Mrs Maria Smodics-Neumann has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e34127	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! – Mr Matznetter, then Hamma’s? [[Abg. Matznetter: Take an example... Agricultural subsidies...!]] May I? - Thank you, that's very sweet! Yes, then I'll make a direct start - - – Yes, and it's a question of appreciation that someone who's in the word can at least get started; but it's okay. [[Abg. Lightness:... Intercession is a legitimate parliamentary...!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Appreciation – I think that’s a good start – can move a lot of appreciation, which very many funds may not be able to move at all. We have already talked a lot about material things before, and I would like to address the immaterial things very consciously. When I hear colleagues here say thank you, thank you to the recruits, but at the same time say between the lines: Well, you tried, but it didn't work that right!, then that's no honest thanks. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] But I believe that this is very, very important, and perhaps the citizens can do it together with me: If you see recruits, soldiers, for example in the grocery store, go to them, thank them for serving that they are there for us, that they are there in an emergency – they are trained to protect us all – that they are there for us in every weather, in every situation, in every area. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] [[Abg. Matznetter: This is what we are doing, Mrs Colleague!]] The crisis has proved: If nothing works, then the federal army works. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Matznetter.]] If we do, then the recruit, the recruit, can be proud of our federal army. We are proud of our federal army, which does not make many, many budget resources bet, but it helps to give them a proper boost. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Yes, but it's not enough! That's ridiculous!]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e34244	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the European People's Party (Christian Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e34266	High house! The fact that the budget of our federal government is completely inadequate should not be explained to you anymore. In fact, everyone in this House should know that the federal army is facing a financial collapse, and if you, Mrs. Minister, are still trying to sell this budget as a success now, then it is an uplift that really hurts me personally. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Except for Sunday's speeches at the comradeship alliances and lip confessions here in the Hohe Haus, nothing positive comes from the Turks to the Federal Army at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] I do not expect anything else from the Greens, but the turquoise colleagues here in the House should be really ashamed of it. But that's nothing new. Let's look back: At the time, the then ÖVP Minister Platter, who is now fortunately allowed to drive his beings only more regionally limited in Tyrol, has reduced the basic defence service from eight months to six months by a responsible decision. [[Call the ÖVP:Na, na, na!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] This political election sugar has started a permanent constitutional break. Our federal constitution states: "The federal government is responsible for the military state defense. It must be set up according to the principles of a military system.” – Constitutional provisions do not even agree with actual reality in the approach. We de facto have a professional army in Austria, which serves as cheap system owners, we have a militia that is in fact only a reserve, but not a militia, and which many see as only a annoying attachment, in the best case as a partial force of the Federal Government. Mrs. Minister, you are so fond of talking about the – supposedly – 30 000 military soldiers, but you are not telling us that almost half of these 30,000 are so-called fixed orders. They're not military soldiers, they're former ground defenses, they're gonna get a bill of supply when they disarm, and they're on a list for five years. As a rule, these limited orders do not enter a barracks floor any more after the disarmament. They're not military soldiers. In addition, these 30 000 ominous military soldiers are expected to have no more days of exercise and are also on one list. These are all cartels. With lists and numbers, a sham is shown here, but which is not one. A militia is characterized by its regular exercise, but thanks to Platter, there are no more full-combat exercises. Now this has happened by many long for impossible salaries: The militia was partially mobilized, and suddenly these temporary orders are armed in security police assistance. They had only one luck: it was possible to prepare these temporary orders in a two- to three-week operation preparation for a very simple and banal use from military viewpoints. But there can also be scenarios very quickly – and now I am not even talking about military defence, but about blackouts, terrorist attacks and so on – in which our federal army may have to go into a more robust commitment and we don't have two to three weeks to prepare for the operation. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Without this extension of the ground defense service, there is no militia that deserves this name. If you vote against this request on Thursday, you will breach applicable constitutional law. Finally, Mrs Bundesminister, I should like to congratulate you on the fact that for the first time in the history of our Federal Government, you have arranged a partial mobility of our militia. – But that was it with the praise. When the bet is over, we will evaluate it precisely and really show out identified shortcomings. Mrs Minister, I should also like to say to you that there is a really good Council: Don't ever speak of 30,000 military soldiers again, because with such statements you only make yourself a mockery at the Kasernenhof. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Laimer.]] And if you believe your statement is really correct, I have to advise you: Exchange your military advisors who sell you there like Salzburg's bullwasher Potemkin's villages. Finally, I wish all the comrades who, as soldiers in the security police service, are in a lot of military luck and a successful commitment. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Laimer.]] [[13:20]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e34392	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. It is now possible to speak. Romana Deckenbacher. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e34420	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Dear Seers! Many of my previous speakers have already mentioned this issue and this area, and allow me to go a little closer on it, namely cybersecurity. The provision of funding of around 47 million euros in the budget for the urgently needed increase in human resources in the field of cybersecurity is a real and important step, Mrs Minister, because we are clearly dealing with a constantly changing threat to cyberspace. The demand for cyber-experts is high. With highly qualified forces and the support of cyber-earners, but also with the support of our IT experts from the militia, it is possible to offer basic capacities and to make it difficult for cyber-attacks to the Austrian Federal Government's ICT system in standard operation and, of course, ideally to prevent them. You will agree to me when I say that cybercriminal and close-to-state hacking groups on every opportunity and with all available Try to get information to be kept secret and secret. Of course, this does not only concern the fields of science, research and the economy, it also affects all companies in critical infrastructure. Yesterday, Minister Schallenberg pointed out the cyber-attack to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – as a recent example – which was successfully completed after weeks of intensive work and excellent cooperation between all the parties involved. An investment in cybersecurity not only serves the property of the Austrian federal army, it is also a strategic tool in the case of a requirement for assistance. It is therefore a real step for our Federal Minister to use these resources for cybersecurity, as this will strengthen the role of the Austrian Federal Army as a strategic reserve for the benefit of our Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e34462	This is the word of Member Dr. Harald Tört. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e34486	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! As a child, I always enjoyed Sunday afternoon. There was coffee jause with Uncle Michael and Aunt Claudia – and that was also a fairy tale hour. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I think that I am now beyond this age, and I am sorry if four days of parliamentary deliberations become a fairy tale hour, especially in the area of budget as a whole. We now have it black on white: A report says that the budget is actually a fake budget, it needs to be improved, and this also applies to the military budget. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lightness: Bravo!]] What is causing me is actually the vision of the ÖVP in terms of military and national defence. The vision of the ÖVP is that our federal army measures fever, plays auxiliary police, sorted mail, and cleaned up by avalanches. I have to tell you the truth: ==References== This is too little for me in the century, the vision of the ÖVP is not far enough. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] It's about very different threat scenarios. There is a need for money to be taken into the hands of soldiers and not to save the security of the staff. There are also very nice Sunday speeches. A thank you is appropriate – yes, but a sincere thank you, and the honest thank you is given if you combine it with appropriate investments for the security of our soldiers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] These savings in the Federal Army are not a security policy for me, they are an insecurity policy. Modern security policy needs to be Seeing the SPÖ more: This is a matter of mobility, without mobility, there is no border protection. We've been using the federal army models that have already served in the Vietnam War. That's not enough today. Border protection also needs mobility, and that is not the case in this case. A modern security policy needs active airspace monitoring. We know this: The saab has run out, has no more pickerl. There is no scenario as to how we deal actively and quickly with the problem of airspace monitoring. In reality, the Austrian Constitution is being violated with its very clear mandate to the German army for a comprehensive national defense. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] An active security policy is also called peace missions, and here too it is primarily about good material – to the safety of our soldiers and soldiers. I say the step of Doskozil was right to acquire new pandours and to go this way. A peace mission in which we do not guarantee the best possible security for our soldiers is not responsible. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Today we have international instability; we have no longer controllable migration movements, which are no longer manageable; we have climate disasters; we have a pandemic. A modern security policy is required, and not what Turquoise and Green offer today: a fairy tale on the subject of modern security. That's too little for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e34563	Next word is reported by Andreas Minnich. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e34587	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! Member Hammer has already said it: the largest budget for the German army in history. A budget increase of almost 10 percent compared to 2019 is a very clear sign. Taking into account the special investment packages in recent years, this is a clear increase, including for the coming years. The investment package for the Black Hawks multi-purpose helicopters, for truck procurement and mobility for the militia is on rail. We will be the Austrian Federal Army for new challenges in the 21st century. Further development of the century, beyond the core competences, focus on concrete priorities such as cyberdefence, international peace efforts, assistance services, in particular civil protection and assistance, blackout preparations and strengthening special units such as ABC units. Finally, I should like to thank all the soldiers, soldiers and the militia who have provided great help and support to our people over the last few weeks and months. They do great things for our country: from the support for security police to the use in postal distribution centres in Hagenbrunn and Inzersdorf, as the Federal Minister has already done. This is help for the population, which is help and support for our country. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister, for your commitment, thank you so much for standing behind our troops, behind each individual soldier and so strongly working for our federal army, thank you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thank you for protecting and helping our Austrian people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e34628	I call Mr MMMag. Dr. Axel Kassinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e34681	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My load capacity, I must say quite honestly – if I may present my subjective state of mind to you – as regards what was presented by representatives of the ÖVP for the last hour is almost at the border. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I try to simplify it first, as far as I am replying to what Mr Hoyos asked Mrs Federal Minister, which is what her vision for the German army is, which he has still not received an answer. I believe you have no vision, but – to speak militaryly – you have an assignment. You have an order, and you do it very, very well. You have an order from your party, the ÖVP – from the leadership of your party – and this order is: by no means to expand what the German army should in truth be for because of our constitution, namely the component of the military state defense. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] It's naïve, you don't want a military defense. If you wanted to, then you would not have broken down the military system more or less, then you would not equip the military with such a ridiculous budget as you do with 0.5 percent, but then you would do it at a height as every country in Europe does, with up to 2% – and we are not talking about a few more euros, but that is four times – that is, if we take the Constitution seriously if we want this organization to work. This organization, by the way, is not a company from my point of view, nor is it like a company, but that is military, that is soldiers, there are commanders, there are no managing directors and the like, and these soldiers we have to give a signal, namely: Do we want a military, yes or no? – We can philosophy about the future tasks of the federal army, which should not be the classic anymore, and then we can reduce the military to what is unfortunately already in large parts today: a technical relief plant with horrendous guns and screwdrivers, which then packs at the post packs – completely right, that is not the task of a military. Only: You don't have the resources, you destroyed the military itself. This is an organization which is unable to exercise military defence, which is not capable of doing so in the event of an entry. We can be glad to see that some kind of barracks is being built or that three helicopters or five trucks are purchased – we are moving there in a dimension that is light years away from what is necessary for a military. However, they can also be open, honest and honest and say: We don't want that! We don't want a military that's capable of making military state defense. That is why we also eliminate all the heavy weapons, which is why we reduce this to a brigade, which is why we further reduce it to 2 billion euros. – That’s legitimate, but then please say it and don’t sell yourself here as the saviors of the federal army, the military – that’s absurd! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff.]] It has already been said many times what is necessary: a significant increase. – This is also in line with the European solidarity that you always strive to achieve. This also concerns military matters. We are signing Pesco – those who know that this is European cooperation in this area – and we are committed to significantly increasing military expenditure. I wonder what we're signing this for. This is, of course, also a question of European solidarity, in this area of the prevention of classical armed conflicts. If you may tell me that such a scenario is no longer going to happen, I'll tell you, that's what I'm saying. then not a forward-looking security policy as we want it to be. In the context of European solidarity, we must take part, and that is, 2%. We could now, of course, try carefully, as Mr Bösch and all of us do, to say EUR 2 billion, EUR 3 billion. The truth is: If we take this seriously, we need 2% of GDP and not more, and we are talking about 7 to 8 billion euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e34762	Mrs Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic spoke. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e34786	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! After negotiating this area on the part of the Greens, a clarification is already important to me: The Federal Constitution is of course valid, and you have carried out yourself, where the military state defence matters are fixed. What was important to us is to anchor this confession to a comprehensive national defense. Why? – Because the framework conditions – even if you can’t close yourself – have changed enormously over the last decades, and we need cyberdefence, a stronger disaster protection as well as a newly established airspace surveillance. That's out of question. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] I wonder, however, whether you want to go with tanks against drones and hackers or if you overlook that we are living in the Schengen area and the Cold War is already over, and what you really want to do is always look into the past instead of into the future, where we know that disaster protection – that is the shift that was important to us Greens – will play a much bigger, more important role and Austria will have a lot of know-how and can also help at international level. [[Abg. Kassinger: This is important to you, we have something else important!]] So let's just be honest, no one takes anything away. In fact, however, it is: It has changed slightly, and there are also discussions at European level – the word pesco – of great relevance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] We can't pretend we're still talking about the federal army in 1945. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e34833	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Gerhard Kaniak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e34857	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I've got to disagree with my previous speaker. These new and additional challenges which you have addressed are, of course, here and no one here ignores them, but they are the best example of the fact that, with this stepboard mentality that we have been driving in the security field over the last decades, these narrow-track budgets for military defence are simply far from being achieved and yet cannot continue to do so, but require a significant increase in national defence resources. That's how it looks! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In fact, one has shown itself in recent weeks and in the last two, three months: The Austrian federal army should be the decisive strategic reserve of action of the Second Republic. As a result of the countless requirements of assistance, we have seen how important it is to provide assistance through the Austrian Federal Army for the Austrian population, for the security and for the care of the Austrians. When we saw how in the course of the Corona crisis the Chinese built up a military hospital for 10,000 patients who had activated their four hospital battalions in the course of a few days, it was no surprise that the Ministry of Health came from the Ministry of Health to the Austrian Federal Army and a delegation visited the East Sanity Centre to find out how many coronatic patients could be cared for there. Do you know what the answer was? – No one, for the army has been simply saved to death and reformed to death in recent years. We are now discussing a budget which is not even trying to fix this deficit. How bad this lack is, let me put it in numbers: We have 210 plans for doctors in the military health sector, about 120 of these 210 plantations are occupied, and of these 120, not even half of them are actually usable. In the area of the remaining health professions in the military health sector, it looks similarly bad, and as a result of the upcoming wave of retirement, 25 percent of the planned posts will not even be occupied in about five years. We have three field ambulances, which should be operational, and we are not even able to get a fully operational one. Not even when we put together the staff and equipment of all three field ambulances, we manage to keep a full field ambulance in operation for three months. That is embarrassing and that is exactly the opposite of the presence of a strategic reserve of action. This is a perfect task, Mrs. Minister! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Last year, as a member of the Federal Parliamentary Committee, I was presented with the Sanity Project 2020 as a military visit to Bregenz, where committed medical officers have worked out point by point, which would be necessary in order to re-use the health care system and fulfil the statutory tasks. This concept is available – I hope you have already read it. This requires extensive legislative and organisational measures, and, of course, there is also a need for a budget increase in this area, with a modest contribution of approximately 38 million euros per year over the next five years to restore the efficiency and commitment of the Austrian health system. Mrs. Federal Minister, I would like to ask you carefully: Go Once again, in an internal agreement with the Minister of Finance, get yourself in times of crisis just like now, where “cost it is what it wants!” the premise, this 38 million euros for the present budget, grab the reform project 2020 for the army and implement it!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e34924	There are no more words available to me. The discussions on this subject have thus ended. [[13:40:53]] UG 33: Economy (Research) UG 40: Economy
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e34954	We now reach the subdivisions 33, economy (research), as well as 40, economy. A joint debate is taking place on this matter. Mr Christoph Matznetter came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e34983	Mr President. Ladies Federal Minister! – Mrs. Schramböck is already here. We are now coming to the chapter Economics. Today is a very good day when the Federal Government shows a little reason and changes things after weeks when, for example, it says that it is not 80 euros or 43 euros to transfer, but at least 500 euros, because otherwise the administration costs more. [[Abg. Hörl: We did that 14 days ago!]] - Great! Mr. Hörl, if this is the tempo of the executive, that you did something 14 days ago and have to announce it today – honestly, you should inculcate in the administration. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hörl.]] This provokes me to suggest that you do not exchange Gernot Blümel through Gabriel Obernosterer, because he makes two budgets overnight, and he may also make these changes faster. I would recommend it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Loacker.]] But to come back to the previous saying: You could be delighted with my praise for the Federal Government, I just wonder: All of us – the Social Democrats, the NEOS, the FPÖ – have been telling you what to do for weeks, and you need months to react. I wonder, Why? Is it the PR machine that says: Facial loss! We can't do anything in a thing that criticized the opposition!? – If it were, I would revise this form of politics. That is the wrong policy. The right thing is to help quickly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Deputies Meinl-Reisinger and Shetty.]] The question raised yesterday by the Federal Chancellor: With which country do you want to exchange?, our EPCs and SMEs can respond quickly, especially those in Vorarlberg, because they know it: with Switzerland beyond the border. In 24 hours the money in the account, billing sometime – you could have done that, ladies and gentlemen. It was never necessary to build this bureaucracy! They could have equated with other countries, could have taken an example of this, and perhaps we would not have had that increase in unemployment, but a lower one, such as Germany. I would be very pleased to see the country and above all the people would do well. So: Less bureaucracy, more help and faster! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] This budget is to be referred to as what we found yesterday, as the Minister of Finance has already seen in the meantime. By the way, I should like to draw attention to something – now I have to pay attention to what I say, Mr President – absurd argumentation, which is evident in the OTS-APA message: The Minister of Finance rejects the SPÖ's accusation of illegality to announce that he will fix the mistake. [[Cheerfulness with SPÖ and NEOS.]] - I just think that's funny. It's getting more and more creative! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] But yes, we are trying to turn our attention away from the old paper and back into the present. Mrs. Federal Minister! – I have not criticized her, the Federal Minister, for she has at least used the last weeks to listen occasionally. [[pointing to Federal Minister Schramböck]] This is a beneficial difference to some other members of the government here. In this case, we do not need to replace you with Gabriel Obernosterer or anyone else, Mrs. Federal Minister; it is enough Gernot Blümel as a weak place. [[Abg. Hear: Hello!]] We are glad that there is the basis for the discussion here, and my recommendation is: Faster implementation and try to have as broad a majority as possible on topics. Take an example of Angela Merkel, who, in dialogue with the opposition parties Greens and FDP, is also trying to find solutions that are also widely supported, which does not produce like our Federal Chancellor and says: We are the best in the whole country and among the two best in Europe!, but rather we say that this is an expression for democracy. – These are serious and sensible words. Cut off a disc at Angela Merkel! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] That would also be good for this country. Not haughty, but acting as a servant of the state in the face of the crisis would do well. So, back to the: You say now – I already hear it – that we may be making a business package. Proposal: Do not wait like the hardening fund, otherwise the country will become a hardy one! Make the economic package strong and immediately! I have, together with Pamela Rendi-Wagner, proposed a comprehensive investment package, the largest of the Second Republic. Do it! - Get up with the purchasing power! 70 percent unemployment benefit! SV-Bonus right now! I would prefer tax reform! Start an investment turbo! Premature depreciation for the economy is the same! Strengthen your shared living, improve your thermal renovation of all public buildings, increase your climate investment package from 1 billion euros – transport, alternative energies – not 300 million euros to three years, but 1 billion euros each time, every year! An infrastructure package for the cities and communities, not 1 billion euros, as announced yesterday, but 2 billion euros, and above all a thermal renovation of the homes of the poor! You could really clean this up – I look at the greens. Take an example of how Vienna turned from urban gas to natural gas 40 years ago – all households, all the poorest! Do it! Then you would also have more success, and the PR could be saved because of CO2 emissions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e35124	Mr Peter Haubner came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e35148	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Matznetter, I have already said almost everything yesterday, but if you are talking about not being haughty, then I would come a little at my own door in this relationship. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Sure – Mr Matznetter has referred to it – it is gratifying that, as we have always said, we want to learn from experience and then improve accordingly, which has been done with the hardening fund again. I think this is the right measure, and I also think that now we can also use the hardening fund in this respect in such a way that everyone will now also come to his money. I think that's a very important decision that we've been making this up. We are in the economic chapter, and I think we should also address the key tasks which are reflected in this chapter and which do not change despite Corona. It is mainly about ensuring the long-term competitiveness of Austria's economic location, and also about the development of technological and digital sectors for the economy and public administration. Austria has great entrepreneurs, and we had good growth and high employment before the Corona crisis, and I think it must be our goal to get back there. In addition to the recovery of domestic consumption and the boosting of domestic investment, international direct investment will be an essential factor for our country so that we can get out of this crisis well and strengthened. It is therefore also crucial that we remain competitive and attractive in difficult times for international investment, ladies and gentlemen. For this reason, Mrs. Minister, I very much welcome the fact that, in the budget of the Economic Area, the marketing of Austria's economic and labour location is of great importance to investors and professionals and is to be intensified by an extension of the services and consultations of our location agency Austrian Business Agency. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] That's a right measure at the right time. This enables us – and that is, I believe, very important – to maintain the positive image that Austria enjoys internationally, and to represent the benefits of our country even better worldwide, especially in the crisis, bringing international companies to Austria. This is for the benefit of all of us, because it creates jobs, strengthens our social system and brings innovations and new technologies to our country. The second priority is active external economic policy – this is also very important. We know that before the crisis 6 of 10 euros were generated abroad, that is, we need our partners abroad to be successful – the Germans, the Italians, the Swisss, the French and also the Chinese, who are among the top tens with 3 percent of our export capacities. We need to see that we are setting up activities in this area again. That is why it is very important that Go-international is continued, an initiative for which we will again provide 12.6 million euros – well-invested money. Digitalization – I think that is very important – remains our main focus. This is your main focus, Mrs. Minister, here you come, you know yourself fully, you are at home. The EUR 5 million that will be available to SMEs in digital form is very important, and this is now an essential point for the SME economy. Finally, I would like to say thank you very much: for the good cooperation and for the fact that you are always voting with the economic speakers. Thank you also for the contributions from the other political groups – it is very important that we deal with things together. Thanks to your staff in the offices, and thanks to the experts in the ministries. Austria's economy will be celebrating a comeback, and I think this is very important for our country and for jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e35217	The next speaker is Mr Erwin Angerer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e35242	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen and listeners! Mrs. Minister, I can't imagine you feeling comfortable in your skin. They were in the private sector themselves and see what's happening outside. We have been discussing it for a long time here in Parliament. You know the numbers. I always think that this government is acting according to the motto: Why simply when it's complicated? They have set up aid packages, talk of billions – the hardness fund, the funds for short-time work, the aid fund, a total of 27 billion euros – and have actually gone beyond about 460 million euros so far. That's 1.6%. How would you rate an employee in a company that you have talked about how he wants to achieve his goals, which after three months has reached 1.6 percent of his goals? Either you don't want the money to go out, or the system is so complicated, so complexly structured and with so much bureaucracy that it simply doesn't work. Today you have already had to improve the hardness fund again, because it just doesn't work. I don't want to read it any more, and I think that many Austrian entrepreneurs are already doing it in a way that they don't want to do it anymore, to go through it all and make one more request. It just doesn't work. At the last press conference, you presented the aid fund on fixed-cost grant. Today you can read in the “standard” of renowned economic professors who say that the fund is set up so that it will not work. Nothing has gone out of the fixed-cost grant fund, and just as you write and how it is set up, nothing will go out again – it will not work again. Why Make You do? Why Help You don't give Austrian entrepreneurs simple access and simple rules? [[Abg. Vogl: Because they can't!]] The next topic is the obligation to make masks. You have issued a regulation today, and I have read this current regulation of 27. May, which loosens everything, looks at it. I take only one point out of this regulation: The accommodation facility shall ensure that employees continue to wear a mask – i.e. no relief – and nights in sleeping camps or common rooms are allowed only if the distance is at least 1.5 meters. So far, it's been 2 meters, that is, we're now approaching each 14 days by half a meter. What are you doing? That's ridiculous, that can't work. These are specifications that can't be implemented in practice. I put in such a mask, like many other Austrians, but not to protect myself from a virus, but only to protect the entrepreneurs from it. I put them on when I go into a local or a commercial business to protect the entrepreneur, but everyone now knows that this mask does not protect anyone from a virus and is a complete plagiarism. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's just more symbolic policy. There has been such a policy centuries ago. You certainly know the story of Wilhelm Tell. Then there was the manslayer's hat, and he who didn't greet the manslayer's hat was punished. Then Wilhelm Tell had to shoot his son the apple off his head. This mask is the Gesslerhut of Sebastian Kurz. The Austrian population is forced to bear this symbol. That should be abolished. [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: Do you know...?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] The mask is completely useless. Look This is what you're looking at: At the top noster, the nose always looks out, and half of the mask has already turned down. I mean, that makes sense, that's no different. [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: A conspiracy theory, yes!]] This is a complete plagiarism that is simply pointless and no longer has to be worn. That is why I am making the following request to ensure that the economy is really helped: [[Quoted print version removed]] I hope you'll finally be reasonable. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[13:57]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e35429	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and under negotiation. Mrs Elisabeth Götze has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e35456	Mr President. Dear High House! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear audience at home in front of the screens! I want to start with an excuse. I think I made a pretty round wrap yesterday. [[Abg. Easy: Yes, you can say that!]] I don't want to apologize. I am absolutely happy about constructive criticism and also about all kinds of conversations. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and MEPs from ÖVP, SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Anger: Who called you?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] By speaking, people come together, by listening. I am looking forward to this kind of cooperation. In this context, I would also like to thank Mrs Minister. I also appreciate meetings where we can discuss topics and to which the opposition is also invited. I think that is very welcome, and that is, I believe, parliamentaryism or also a sign of a functioning democracy. Mr Angerer said that he no longer read what is coming new. I'll read it through. On the contrary: I am very happy about what has come, and I was also a little involved. I would very much like to talk about the innovations in the hardness fund. I think it's really sensational news – a quantum leap, I'd even say. [[Abg. Senseful nonsense is that!]] The first is – that is probably not yet so sensational – that the reference period is extended. By mid-December, companies can use support for six months instead of so far for three, i.e. twice as long a reference period. But now it comes: Anyone entitled to claim will receive at least EUR 1 000 per month. I think that's really a very good offer. [[Abg. Singer: 5 percent..., that's great!]] [[Abg. Easy: Go, Wolfgang, now don't be like that!]] – Thank you for the constructive criticism. At least EUR 1 000 per month means at least EUR 6 000 and a total of up to EUR 15 000. Now you may wonder how the 15 000 euros come about: There are at least 2 000 euros per month for six months, plus a bonus of 500 euros per month for anyone entitled to claim. Everyone gets it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Because the bureaucrat was also talking about: No bureaucracy among those who have already sought, they automatically receive the transfers to their account – without any recent requests. I therefore believe that something really good has been achieved, this is a very important signal to the small-structured Austrian economy, to the EPUs, to the new self-employed, who are so valuable to the Austrian economic location, for local care, has already been mentioned, but also for innovative power, for research. These are important employers in Austria. In this respect, it is a form of thanks, but also a support to bring them through the crisis well and allow them a good restart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e35564	The next speaker is Mr Josef Schellhorn. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e35598	Mr President. Minister! Yes, we have already discussed it in the Committee on Budgets: The fact is, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has only one third of the budget that the Chamber of Commerce has. This is now somehow also a question of the number of employees: In your ministry in 2018, 1 885 and 5 000 were employed by the Chamber of Commerce. Unfortunately, you did not answer the question in committee either, the question is: If you have only one third of the budget of the Chamber of Commerce, do you plan to allocate further state policy decisions or tasks to the Chamber of Commerce, or has this been achieved with this excellent success in dealing with the hardness fund? [[Abg. Hörl: Good idea!]] This is what the entrepreneurs are suffering. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] If you have only one third of the budget, the question arises: What's your povoir? – Mr Haubner has mentioned two things that it needs to be competitive, namely that the labour factor is relieved. I think you could work to relieve the labour factor in order to be more competitive, even in the European context. The employees need to earn more and cost less; you already know that from me. That's one of the jumping points, otherwise we can forget all the globalisation. And – I have to contradict you –: We ourselves need a competition in the Single Market. You've expressed this a little differently in the past. Competition is important, but we are still at the forefront in the taxation of the labour factor. But Mr Haubner said something else, he said: We're an export country, we have to do something! We have to do something with Italy! – Please discuss You can do this with the Federal Chancellor, how this can be done with economic aid, how we can rebuild Europe, how we can make Europe fit again, how we can work together with our export-dependent countries, namely partner countries such as Italy or other countries, and help them again at European level! That's an important point. I think you're talking about different topics. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It does not help if Mr Haubner turns out and calls for this, but I also want to make a clear commitment from the Chancellor of the Federal Republic, a clear commitment from your government partner, also from the Minister of Finance, but above all a clear commitment from the Greens, because they have not yet said anything about how they want to help Europe. It used to be quite different when you said you were solid, but I think you're being led back here at the nose ring. Finally, I would like to look again at the factor of work. If I have 4 000 euros in wages and only 2 000 euros remain net if I am deducted so much, then you have to work to ensure that the staff remains more. The entrepreneur transfers 4000 euros at the end of the month, and then the deductions start: Pension insurance, accident insurance, health insurance, unemployment insurance with surcharge, housing aid, family compensation funds, service provider's contribution, service supplement, municipal tax and metro tax in Vienna. And then the charges come from the employees: Health insurance, pension insurance, Chamber of Labour, unemployment insurance, housing aid, unemployment insurance with deduction and wage tax. This means that €4,000 will be 2 000, and that is a key problem. This is also the problem of 12 000 days of the ÖVP's financial ministers or government participation. This is where we are now picking up the shard, where we are no longer competitive, even before Corona no longer competitive. Here you should think, here you can do a lot when it comes to competitiveness, especially in the area of tourism, where the labour factor is even higher. There is a problem here particularly in the areas of the services sector. And this is also the core problem of tourism companies: They could not build up any reserves because the factor work has torn away far too much in recent times. Mrs Bundesminister, I think that would be your part, because from the budget we can still do relatively little.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e35647	Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Margarete Schramböck spoke on a point of view. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e35671	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The Budget 2020 is certainly an extraordinary budget that we have not yet experienced, because we have a situation that we have not all experienced. The 2008 and 2009 economic crisis is much lower than what we are now experiencing, not only in Austria, but throughout Europe and worldwide. It is important to look closely at this and also to focus on a difficult time when many extraordinary measures are needed and many extraordinary measures have already been implemented together; I would like to address them later. But I would also like to focus on some of the priorities that the Coronavirus not only reminded us of, but also where it has shown us that they are important. The amount of a budget is not always decisive for what you can implement and do. I know certain points of view, including from this House, and I would just like to point out that economy and digitization always have a matrix function, always being something that must work together with all the departments, and must work with all in society, with companies, but also with private individuals. That's why it doesn't matter so much about the amount of the budget, but it depends on what you make of it. An important point is certainly the topic of digitization and a second the topic of research. Let me briefly address these two points, which are as important today as they were before, have become even more important! When we look at the topic of digitalization, we see very clearly that we are living today things that I have often heard of in the last 20 years, in the last ten, five and two years, even in my former professional activity, that this is not possible and that we cannot do this and that. This is about home office, video conferences, home schooling and also about e-commerce – all important points that were suddenly filled with life. Many have used these possibilities that have not previously believed that they want to use them or can also use them. That is why it is very important that we continue to pay attention to this issue, and now even more so than we did before. Why? – Because we need that in our daily lives, it makes our lives easier, safer, healthier and even easier. That is why the budget also provides for appropriate measures; I would just like to take one out of it, for example the creation of an Ö-Cloud, which is also included in our government programme. Many people wonder: What could that be? – It’s about networking infrastructure accordingly; I’m talking about Edge Computing and other topics. To implement these things in Austria is important. And why? – Because we want to make ourselves more independent of international corporations, because different business models, especially in the field of cloud and also in the field of e-commerce, should not only be reserved to major corporations. Believe me, I know what I'm talking about, because I've experienced that too! This is about taking the right steps now and continuing these digitalisation programmes. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] A second short point – we have already discussed it intensively in committee – is research. This too has not simply disappeared through Corona, and I believe we must remember again and again, this is a very, very difficult and terrible time especially for entrepreneurs. But it is also a time that will pass again, and we must continue to focus on the issues of digitization and research. The 14 percent research premium will therefore remain an important factor. We also need a research strategy, it has already been discussed today: We need to develop them accordingly, we need to advance this research strategy for Austria, and that also in due time. Our goal must certainly be to have a new strategy at the latest – with the emphasis on at the latest – despite Corona in autumn. Then a research promotion law should also be adopted jointly, which forms the basis for the future of this location: for the companies, but also for their employees, so that more can be created after Corona. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] A third point, which is very, very important to me and has always been, is the issue of production in Austria. This is not just about the issue of economic defence, that is to say not just making this country safe in the form of what it is now. Austria must also be crisis-proof when a virus comes when a shutdown occurs or when a digital attack occurs, even these attacks become more common. If such a thing happens, we have to be sure. This brings us to Europe, because this is also a European task, it is important to bring it to Europe that we produce again in Austria: in the field of semiconductors, in the field of hydrogen, in the field of batteries, in the field of medical active substances, for example penicillin. In Austria, but especially in Europe, it is important that we strengthen this independence and that we not only depend on China and the USA. We must become more self-evident and not least create jobs in Austria and Europe. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] At the moment, we are in the biggest world economic crisis we have all experienced. I experienced the crisis back then in 2008 and 2009 and I know how it feels when you have sleepless nights and don't know how to continue with your employees if you don't know whether you get orders, don't know how to proceed. In these times our entrepreneurs are courageous entrepreneurs outside. It is not the large companies – it is small and medium-sized enterprises that are on the ground, because they are the biggest employers who create most jobs in Austria! It is therefore important to help them in particular. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] There are three components, you know, the costs in a company are essentially composed of three parts. One of them is the personnel costs: With regard to short-term work, which has been worked out together with the social partners, i.e. with the social partners on both sides, I would like to express my thanks once again for the success that has been achieved in Germany. I worked in France, worked with Italy and with Spain, and also worked in Germany: In no country of Europe is it the way it is in Austria, and we can be proud of it! Yes, we need to pay out more, yes, it can still go faster and yes, we should also get better every day. No one can claim to do everything right from the first day and to know exactly. It is therefore important to listen to the entrepreneurs, and I have done so constantly. The issue of short-time work is an important point, and also the fixed-cost grant. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] As far as fixed costs are concerned, these are, of course, the second largest factor in a company after personnel costs. We all know what it's all about: Leasing costs, Patent costs, other internet costs – anything else in a company costs. To replace up to 75 percent of this is an important point. The application for the fixed cost grant has been made since 20. It is possible to make these payments very quickly, in June. It is important that entrepreneurs submit quickly. The third point relates to the entrepreneurship wage you have repeatedly referred to, which is replaced by the hardness fund. It is important to me to illustrate that there are just three components, not just one, and this third component is the entrepreneurship wage. We have taken an important step: We've been listening, I've been listening, and there's also feedback, it needs more money. There should also be more, and we have implemented it accordingly today. But if we look at the whole thing in a comprehensive way, we still need a lot of measures, such as the municipal package. It is about the task of many SMEs, which is important to me in the cities and communities. There is no selection of an international group, but there is a task for an SME: That's the carpenter next door, the playground is built, there are schools being built, and that's good and right so. For this purpose, there are these 1 billion. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] This 1 billion is made available to the municipalities and cities, no matter in which state, can apply for funds. Again: This is not only for the support of the cities and communities, but also for the support of the local economy which is being commissioned. Does it take further steps? – Yes, we will have to continue these steps, because to bring the location back where it was before, it will take time. Yes, it will still take – but together we can take the right steps, shoulder to shoulder with the companies for their future. Hopefully we will soon see that more and more people in Austria are working again – the unemployment rate is slowing down, week by week, step by step – and we are returning to the normality and economic prosperity that we have worked out together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e35820	Mrs Mag.a Carmen Jeitler-Cincelli has now been mentioned. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e35841	Mr President. Mrs Schramböck! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Austrians! Mr Schellhorn, you have been doing something I hear about in this House over and over again, your unrelenting chamber hunt. I find it exciting because the economic chamber elections are over, they're beaten. I think you had 17 candidates on your list throughout the federal state of Salzburg – we had 13 000 in Austria as an economic association, which says something about how many entrepreneurs are involved in this matter. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Schellhorn – talking to Federal Minister Schramböck – shows a thumb-high gesture towards the speaker.]] But now to my actual point: Mr Hafenecker has today brought a beautiful concept, namely the concept of ideological commander. I have been thinking of the words of Mr Stöger, Mr Diplômé today and of the Committee last time, and I have also had great agreement with Mr Bernhard: That was a kind of ecomarxist lecture. I was really amazed that there were such views that were quoted: Where a market is created, richer, poorer, poorer and the environment is being destroyed. I don't know in which university such a teaching is being spread, whether it's perhaps the same university that you can also refer to this great title – at least we think it's a complete humbug. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I mean, we have to re-examine this today: Austria's only really big resource is Europe's resource, that's innovative capacity – that's our great resource! I would like to thank the Minister for sharing this understanding. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] It is the entrepreneurs who will get us out of this crisis, perhaps precisely by creating solutions, developing things that can solve these environmental problems. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Where a market arises – look, ladies and gentlemen, a market is nothing but the place where supply and demand meet. This is a market, no more and no less. This is a market, and where these markets arise, people will be able to create value-added, where people will be able to meet their needs. In the optimal case, they can even contribute something positive to the fight against the climate crisis and to the clarification of environmental problems. [[Abg. Vogl: What about the farmers? Why...?]] – I understand Unfortunately, she's acoustically so hard inside here. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Vogl.]] Let us put it together, Ecomarxism is over or not relevant today. I believe we can solve the problems of our future together through innovative capacity, through cool start-ups, through entrepreneurship, through entrepreneurship, and we should address them together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e35921	Mrs Mag. Dr.in Sonja Hammerschmid. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e35945	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mrs Cincinelli! [[Abg. Jeitler-Cincelli: Cincelli!]] I would like to respond now, but that would be a complete break in my speaking time, therefore back to the UG 33 and to the economy. I was brought to the Innovation Agency in 1999 – this is a predecessor of the Austrian Economic Service Agency – to build up technology and knowledge transfer on behalf of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. That is, to accompany, finance and promote business start-ups based on research results from universities, technical universities, non-university areas or even companies. In addition to the Lifesciences, topics such as ICT, nanotechnology, the creative economy, the film industry and much more were soon added, so that, at the end of the day, it has a large area, all in the field of technology and innovation. It was eleven years, eleven very, very exciting years, in which I was allowed to accompany hundreds of business start-ups with my team. These companies were one thing in common: quite clearly their research intensity per se, but also that all these business start-ups and business ideas were too far advanced for basic research funding, that is, to apply, but for venture capital still too early, because they always want a proof of concept and a proof of principle, the same applies to strategic investors, and the banks simply didn't fit everything into their rating system. So it was only legitimate for the public to say that we want to compensate for this market failure with incentives and with support measures. Said, done: Many instruments have been created that support these companies to date. They are truly supportive foundations, because they are highly specific, research-intensive and with great growth potential and can also create many highly technical and highly qualified jobs. These Preseed and Seed programmes still exist. These programs have often been the first investments in a business start-up, the first euro that has flowed into business. Only then were the private individuals added, only then were the companies fit after some time to raise private capital. In these eleven years, I have once succeeded in getting a three-year budget for these programmes. The negative example was the year 2000 when I was 28 years old. In December, the Lifesciences Sead Programmes had received the budget for the past year. Since then, there has not really been a serious change in planning for the Agency budgets. There are always annual negotiations of annual budgets, which are always tough and never exactly predictable. Lessons learned from these eleven years was for me – this experience I like to pass on –: Founders and start-ups need fast funding, the competent research funding agencies need planning, multi-year budgets and autonomy. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] If we come to the UG 33 now: In the government programme, you emphasize, and I am pleased to see the importance of business start-ups and start-ups for the competitiveness of our business location. That's what I'm doing. If, however, the budget is in figures, this budget of the UG 33 is a total failure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The additional pots for preseed and seed financing from the government core have disappeared, the risk capital premium for investors is gone, the promotion of additional wage costs is marginalized and there is no trace of the research funding law and the necessary growth path. Planning for agencies: Please wait! So, and if the argument comes now, there is the Covid help package for start-ups: Yeah, uh, good, good. However, this only affects existing companies that already have investors on board, so this does not help the creations per se. Please, Mrs Minister for Economic Affairs, I really ask you: A research funding law with a decent growth path that goes far beyond inflation, which really covers basic research up to applied research and development, because without basic research there is no applied research, no innovations. I have already spoken to the companies Themis, Apeiron and Apeptico in the UG 34 today. We know these are the companies that are now in the lead in the corona crisis. All of them had their first euro in the company with Seedfinancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e35994	Mrs Bedrana Ribo has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e36015	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! We debated many issues yesterday and today. But I missed a topic. It is not directly in to find a certain UG, but affects almost all UGs. It is a typical cross-sectional matter in which it is difficult to also call numbers. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm talking about seniors. I have a number: At the beginning of 2020, 1.7 million seniors lived in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] There are as many as ever before, and the number is growing. The definition of seniors is that they are called from the age of 65 onwards. So I personally cannot start much with this definition, because I know quite a lot of 65-year-olds, who are fitter than 55-year-olds of earlier or even fitter than I am, so something is changing. Today's seniors live longer, live healthier, are fit, mentally and physically up to old age, and of course that's good. For me, as a speaker for care and seniors, it is very important that seniors are not always treated with care. Not all seniors are in need of care and not all caregivers are seniors. But to be able to share in social life up to the old age, it also needs knowledge about digital media in addition to this physical and mental fitness. They have become an important criterion for social participation in our society, including for the seniors. This has already occurred before Corona, in the Corona crisis this has been strengthened and it will continue to be so. The last weeks have shown that even after the Corona crisis, digitalisation of senior citizens must be a priority. In the crisis, I spoke to some seniors, and in addition to the issue of Corona and all the difficulties that came with it – solitude, for example, was an important topic – many have really happily told them that they could have contact with their grandchildren, with their children, with their friends about video conferences. This was only possible because they had the technical equipment for it and because they knew some of them or had friends and acquaintances who had taken their arms there. Unfortunately, there were also seniors, for example in nursing homes, who had to wait longer to have contact with their families because, for example, I was told that the Internet connection in the nursing home was so bad, but the laptops and the technical equipment were not available – and that, please, in 2020. If we want to push digitalisation forward – and we want to find that in almost every UG point in the budget – then we also need to fix these failures. It is our job to prepare our seniors with appropriate support for increasing digitalisation, to make them fit for the future. So we politicians – these seniors, these 1.7 million people have also chosen us – have to create appropriate framework conditions for this, and the seniors have to think in terms of the digitalization offensive. For example, we need to ensure that there are enough supported digitalisation courses. They must, of course, be set low and wide, including in the rural regions. However, it is also the task of the nursing homes – which I also take into account – to provide technical equipment and improvements. Digitalisation in the area of seniors must not be ignored after Corona. This must become an important common cross-party objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e36076	Mr MMMag came to speak. Dr. Axel Kassinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e36103	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) No one will be left behind or nobody will be left behind, was one of the many guiding words of German Chancellors Kurz. The reality today looks like we have 600,000 unemployed, 1.2 million people in short-term work – and statistically, the 400 000 individual companies and micro-enterprises in Austria are not yet identified. I now make the claim that there will very well be losers, partly also great losers. I think that all this could have been much easier than with the three-stage complex red tape sample construction made of hardening funds, short-time work, fixed-cost grant. Why didn't you say with a law, a line: The additional wage costs for March, April, May are not included? They're not going to be hours, they're not gonna be there. One could have calculated this too; that is not a problem from the quantity. Then that's 15 billion, 20 billion euros. One could also have said: ==References== In May the corporate tax is halved, the income tax rates are halved et cetera. That would have been two lines. Why didn't you do that? – I think you didn’t do it, especially because you would have lost the influence. These would have been legal claims which in their simplicity would have been unsurpassed. You didn't do it all. The construction of hardening funds, short-time work, fixed-cost grant over the Chamber of Commerce has been made. Now you have the Cofag – that is, several areas – so that you have control of who gets money and who doesn't get money. So this is not about the question: What's the best thing for people? What's the best for entrepreneurs? What's the best thing for the workers? What's the best for the employers? – That would be the question that a leader should have had to ask in the situation. So, on the other hand, the question appears to have been asked: What's the best for the Austrian People's Party? What's the best thing for our field organizations? What's the best thing for the Chamber of Commerce? – In my opinion, these are completely wrong questions. [[Complementary and intermediate calls at the FPÖ.]] So one could have made it much easier, and then one could have saved economic packages. For these economic packages: They are to be enjoyed with caution. IHS Chief Kocher says: The risk of their being totally empty is given in particular if there is high uncertainty. Now, through your government measures, you have given the model example of high uncertainty by making a long shutdown, with regulations, releases, press conferences have caused chaos and are already awake with the second wave, so to speak. Economy is psychology. Trust looks different, confidence looks different. As a measure, it seems a bit strange to increase the Covid Startup Aid Fund from EUR 25 million to EUR 50 million and at the same time give the signals: In fact, it is currently far too dangerous to start a business, or otherwise formulated: What kind of normal-calculating, planning and thinking person is now setting up a company – with the signals he receives from you – to expand his business? - So that's not clear to me. Last point, which Mr Hammerschmid has already mentioned: Of course, there is a causal chain, especially for Europe, a direct link between education, training, research, innovation and economic success. The word innovation leader is brought back again and again. We are always in the position of ten or even further behind, so in the case of Weitem not where the Sweden, the Swiss and so on are, as we are not able to provide planning, stability and perspective for the research area. The Research Finance Act was already included in the 2017 government programme – a strong desire of the Freedom Party. However, it has not been achieved in the last government period and is not yet seen in 2020. It would be urgent. After all, we'll take a closer look at this – that this is finally happening in the autumn. Finally, I would like to make a motion for a resolution on my question or on what is the best thing for the Chamber of Commerce, as it has been revealed by the executives. [[Abg. Anger: Dissolve! Dissolve the Chamber of Commerce!]] I think the best way for the economy and businessmen would be if the Chamber of Commerce would immediately dissolve the reserves of 1.4 billion euros and bring them to their forced members as a liquidation syringe. I therefore propose that: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[14:36]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e36225	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly implemented, and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Johann Höfinger has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e36253	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! There is no doubt that we are discussing one of the most important chapters of this budget when it comes to the economy. Today, both in and between the lines – including many opposition colleagues – it has been heard that there is great praise, both in terms of the economic development and promotion of recent years as well as in terms of current measures. Of course, you can’t – and I understand that – go with everything d’accord, then you don’t need to be opposition party. In times like this – and They have mentioned this many times today – but it is very important to help directly with the hardening fund and various other measures. That's what you're demanding, that's what's done. On the second side: In a breath you constantly require control and monitoring. This, of course, has to be secured and handled as properly as possible, so that we can understand how these funding funds have been handled afterwards. This is important to you, which you have repeatedly stressed, and this is also taken into account. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The fact that the economy is really the flywheel of this country, we have felt stronger in these days and we have known this for a long time. We must also pay more attention to this in the future and especially in the coming weeks, months, years, because everything else depends on it, even if we discuss this budget. The economic performance, by the work of each individual, is in reality created what we can do in other areas. That is why it is all the more important – and we have now noticed – that value creation remains in our country. This has a great deal of effect: These are direct jobs, but they are also about security of supply and – we have also noted this – high professional competence. Of course, it has become easy to order something on the Internet, but the expertise, the advice, the service, the repairs, all that needs to happen in stock or accompanying must not be lost to us. That is why our greatest support in this area is in which we are all required. Of course, it is about networking, the cluster in the economy itself, but each individual decides where and how something is produced, where and how a service is offered. We must bring this back into our minds, because it depends on the immediate workplace, perhaps even on our own. To say it: Yes, we all need, from the individual company to the small and medium-sized enterprises to the industry – we also remember this in these days. This is really a basic provision in all aspects, and I think that will be the focus in the coming weeks, and the next few months will also be budgeted. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e36307	The next speaker is Mr Helmut Brandstätter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e36331	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Europeans! This is a good day for Austria because it is a good day for Europe. There were the proposals of Merkel and Macron, then there were some greedy ideas from some other countries, and today the EU Commission has finally spoken: 750 billion euros in grants and loans, compared with about 2 : 1 will be allocated in the form of very, very concrete projects. There is still a lot to be said about this. Today I found an advertisement in Austrian newspapers, where I thought: Whoever did that, these are prophetic people who must have known a little more. For example, “We stand [...] at our core values. [[Reading from a newspaper]] In addition, we reaffirm our ambitions for a green transition from Europe to a progressive and right path, to restart Europe and to find solutions that do not leave a country behind." This with green – yes, we already have it in the proposals, because I have already read from the EU Commission: The aim is to invest very strongly in climate protection, to introduce CO2 emissions and, above all, to provide – and this is an essential point that will certainly be debated – more own resources from the European Union, the European Commission, because they can only be strong in Europe. I think we can be very satisfied with this, because, as mentioned above, we must say: This is a good day for Europe. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The more I wondered about a lot of interviews, but I found an interview with an Austrian economist in the “Kurier” – interesting newspaper – on kurier.at: “The short fights something Merkel and Macro don’t demand.” – I think there was a scandal that we didn’t need. I would like to say something about this: Well, it's not the money alone. [[A book on whose cover a portrait can be seen keeps up to date:]] “A soul for Europe” – ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, this man is Erhard Busek. [[Interlocutory calls by Mr Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Haubner and Mr Kassinger]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Kassinger]] I think he plays a major and important role in the history of the ÖVP. I have known him since my youth days and have always admired his commitment to Europe at a time when no one has done this, namely to oppose the communist dictatorships in Eastern Europe. You can be very proud of that. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] – I’m talking positively about Busek and no one applauds the ÖVP, I’m going to tell him that; but no, I don’t do anything. He quotes a beautiful set of Ivan Krăstev: “Creative Conflicts create Europe”. There is, of course, a double sense behind that: create Europe, create Europe. – Of course, we see it positively. I would like to say something else because, of course, start-ups is the talk: Yeah, I'm for that too, we need more money for start-ups. However, this will not work with funding alone, Mrs. Federal Minister. You're not the only contact. In cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, we need new financing models. Of course, we need to promote venture capital, we need more opportunities for young companies to get money. We also need a more positive outlook for the stock exchange, which I would also like to say at this point. The state cannot do everything, and there are people who want to make money. A stock is equity – this is not speculation! If someone buys a share today and sells it tomorrow, he's a speculator from me. If he buys them today and sells them in a year, in two, three years, he's certainly not a speculator, he's putting on money. I would ask you to consider that this tax, which is very high, is lowered and, the longer someone holds a share, he is less taxed accordingly. That would, I believe, also be a positive initiative, which would now be necessary. My speaking time has expired, and I want to be on time. – Thank you very much, it is a good day for Europe, I say that again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e36425	Member of the European Parliament. Dr. Jakob Schwarz. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e36446	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Subdivision 40 in the budget focuses on small and medium-sized enterprises, SMEs. I believe that this also shows that these have not only come to the attention of the Corona crisis, and I would like to mention a few figures from the last SME report. It was found that 99.6 percent of market-oriented companies in Austria are SMEs, two thirds of the employees are employed by SMEs, and that they generate 60 percent of the gross domestic product. This is also one of the reasons why we have so much transferred from small and medium-sized enterprises to small and medium-sized enterprises in the aid measures under the Corona Bridge and Aid Funds. All the more so, I think it is to welcome the fact that the funding in the hardening fund has now been re-established and significantly upgraded, from EUR 1 500 to a maximum of EUR 6 000 to EUR 6 000. That's really a very good sign. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens and the ÖVP.]] In addition to these direct corona relief and bridging measures, which were the subject of yesterday and which will probably be again tomorrow, I would also like to address other essential aids in the UG 40, which the budget provides beyond Corona, in particular two aspects, which, as I think, are the two main challenges in addition to Corona, as some of the previous speakers have mentioned. One is, of course, the climate crisis. It will change the conditions under which the social demands and, accordingly, labour and sales markets are managed. For companies, the answer to this is, of course, innovation, research and development. This is supported, for example, by the technology, innovation and growth funds of the UG 40. I believe that many entrepreneurs in Austria are already on the front line on this issue. We should expand this gap even further. There are also recent surveys that show that 84 percent of Austrians want reconstruction to be a greener, a more climate-friendly one after Corona, and we will try to do our best to support it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The second is, of course, digitalization, which is supported by various projects in the UG 40. It offers not only potentials for productivity increases, but also for e-commerce – you have already mentioned that. [[towards Federal Minister Schramböck]] I think that, unlike the first point, there is some sort of ground to make up for. There must and can also support policy – I am glad that this is such a central concern for you – in order to bring our local and regional economy to the fore with other companies. But above all, these short-term support measures are coming, and I believe that with the addition of the hardening fund and the launch of the fixed-cost grant, the most important conditions are now in place. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens and the ÖVP.]] Finally – even though Mr Matznetter is no longer here –: Of course, it needs an economic package. The government has already announced key points on this comeback package with three subgroups. This also includes a preference for a part of the tax reform, including investments in climate protection, regionalisation and digitalisation, including the 300 million package for public transport, only in contrast to Mr Matznetter, all the experts in budget hearing said – ah, here he is now – that we should not already shoot the whole powder – that would be a bit your access, colleague Matznetter – but we will have to make demand support over a longer period of time. [[Abg. Matznetter: (on the way to his seat)... also without ÖVP...!]] [[Abg. Matznetter: Super!]] Accordingly, it is important that we still have resources. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Finally, Mr Schellhorn, who is no longer here: Werner Kogler, of course, spoke about what this EU building fund could look like this morning, just before the Commission went out of it. He called, among other things, for this fund to increase on the one hand, and on the other, for it to become greener. The Commission then obviously implemented its wishes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e36534	The next speaker is Mr Maximilian Lercher. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e36558	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear. Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! Mr Schwarz, I would just like to mention one at the beginning: I would always be very interested in these experts, but be it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] At the last meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, for example, we asked the Minister who was the experts who recommended the resolution of the hardening fund. We asked you very specific questions at the time: Why is an amount not immediately distributed from at least the Social Aid Guide to all? – You have the following reasons: Because it didn't recommend experts like this. That's what we asked: Who are these people? - We didn't get an answer. Be around. It has been repaired, and I think that was and is a good thing because it urgently needs small and medium-sized enterprises. The fact that this has come about is a good and important step for Austria, although more is expected in the sense of revitalising the economy. I would like to make some very personal progress because it has been working on me all week and especially today. Allow me a few words away from the big politics to something very private: My father's got his last working day today. After 47 years of contribution – he is 62 years old – he has his last working day today. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to wish him all the best at this point – in recent years he has been a bufferer – because he has done very, very much for society and also for his children. [[General condolences.]] But why do I bring this private example? – It’s a very, very political one. That he can retire today at 62 years of age is due to a decision of this House, borne by Social Democracy, but also by the Freedom Party, contributed by the ÖVP, then in the time of the transitional government. It was a decision that, I believe, contributed to greater justice in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Why am I talking about this decision? – He not only affects my father, but many real achievements in this country. We – this house – make the rules for more justice or not. I would like to talk about it because, in the face of the corona crisis, digitisation, the climate crisis and everything that is happening to us, it is primarily about the political re-design of this economic policy system, so that it works for the real economy and the real performance providers. I think we need to think about starting a system change, which means that the social state is no longer the problem, but in fact the solution of our problems, dear friends. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think it is time to discuss it exactly, because many people always pretend that this economic system is God-given. Faith You're telling me: I asked my priest, he didn't find it in the Bible. It's not God-given. [[Call the ÖVP: Mao-Bibel!]] It is a system designed by people, and I believe it is precisely in these times the task of honest politics that we ask again this question to make the system more just together – more just for the many everyday performance providers in this country. In doing so, we, Mrs Minister, are together called upon to do so, because the market does not really regulate everything by itself. He does not make the system more just by himself, and we must call that back to our consciousness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e36616	Mr Andreas Ottenschlager has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e36640	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer briefly to a few previous speakers, first to Mr Lercher. Yes, I think we all agree that we want to pursue and maintain social policy objectives, such as full employment and a good social network, but above all, this requires corresponding economic growth. And we have to take care of it. We recognise in a situation like this that the top priority must be for many social policies, for the achievement of climate objectives, in our education system, in the health system. This is one of the highest premises and the objective that we must have in mind in this situation. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] What leads to economic growth? – These are many measures, many small wheels. First of all, of course, a corresponding positive mood is crucial. I don't need to explain this to you, you know that. Achieving the objective of the functioning of the economy is particularly about the corresponding increase in purchasing power and the first discharge steps that are already being discussed – keyword: Tax relief, tax reductions. Of course, we are also concerned about the aspects that Mr Brandtätter introduced recently in order to strengthen the equity ratios of our small and medium-sized enterprises. Sustainable strengthening of these businesses must be a major goal for us, as well as many other measures that lead to confidence in the site. One aspect that I would also like to introduce, which will be quite crucial, is – the Federal Minister has also mentioned – to bring production plants back to Austria and Europe as far as possible. I believe that digitalization and automation, which are linked to it, are a great opportunity for countries like Austria to get production companies back into the country.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e36682	Mr Walter Rauch came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e36706	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the TV screens! Yes, Mr Ottenschlager, economics is emotion, economics is a feeling, and thus the state also needs to help to maintain this emotion, this feeling, because then an economy works. At the moment, however, we have a situation in which this feeling and this emotion do not vote. This has the reason that the Federal Government has been sluggish for weeks, holding press conferences for weeks, making promises that have not been met in the final effect, for example today at a PK with the Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany for the New Hardfall Fund. I'm wondering now: If an entrepreneur has submitted an application four or five weeks ago, will he now have to submit a new application? [[Federal Minister Schramböck: This is automatic!]] Is it now paid automatically for the increase to 2 500 euros or 1 000 euros? All these are things that you need to communicate in the final effect to the entrepreneur, to whom the person concerned now also. The problem you have created in recent weeks and months is that this feeling and this confidence in your direction, but also, of course, in the direction of the state, has been completely lost. Why? – I think I'll be no different from you. The news of entrepreneurs who have been called from the beginning by the economic operators in the regions: It's all no problem, it's all financed, it's all done for you! After three weeks, the first recalls – I think you or your group will not go any differently – were asked: Yeah, when do I get something? – And then it was quiet, then it was completely, completely calm. Now many entrepreneurs are in the situation that they have been waiting for ten weeks. With 161 000 applications, just over 200 million euros were currently paid. This is a fraction of the numbers you juggle and throw around at press conferences day after day. All of this has an impact in the final effect on the confidence that you have destroyed in the field of business in recent weeks. Now just go over with a brush and believe that the hardening fund will change everything, I'm not convinced. This will not relieve the economy in this way either. Another point was the comeback bonus, which is also an exciting access in this area. Of course, many will try to make this request. When and how the services will flow, however, the information of you is missing. I have repeatedly criticised the resolution of the hardening fund through the Chamber of Commerce. I have made the following request before, but I will bring it back today. It cannot be that the Finance Office, the Ministry of Finance – an authority – will have to shut down and the Chamber of Commerce will have to come into service to deal with the hardening fund in order to help entrepreneurs. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] All these are bureaucratic obstacles, for which the financial office has a button on all data, all functions. Accordingly, the Chamber of Commerce is used as an instrument to deliver a performance which you do not at all have – which you do not have at all! That's why it's missing. Their understanding, or the goal, was quite different, perhaps to favour one or another over this track. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That would be a solution with which there would be a targeted and safe support for everyone, but not such a hopeful action as you have made them to the detriment of the economy in the last few weeks. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[15:02]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e36959	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Kaufmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e36983	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! First of all, I would like to contact the entrepreneurs in SMEs. I know how we all are right now, how many sleepless nights we are spending, because we have not been able to accept orders anymore, because orders have been missed, or because the customer or customer wants to do something in the short term. Of course, all the work planning is quite different from what we were used to. I would nevertheless like to give you the courage, because it is especially we as SMEs that create jobs in Austria, and especially we have been in the past. which have secured this variety of jobs and made up this country of Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We have now been supported by many measures in recent weeks – the Minister has outlined them – and today we are talking about a budget that also concerns future measures. As an apprentice speaker, it is particularly important to me because a point is taken out, namely the Euroskills. At 2.5 million euros in the budget, the Euroskills in Graz are financed in the next January, and we can get the best of the best in front of the curtain and thus make really good role models visible to young people. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] As an apprentice speaker, it is particularly important that we strengthen the choice between school education and vocational training in Austria. The importance of young spirits in SMEs in particular, we have now felt in the crisis, and this is why another point from the budget is particularly important for the future, namely SMEs in digital form. We all have now probably experienced how important it would be to have good online connections, how important it would be to have the know-how with us in the companies. These packages by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, by the Minister of Economic Affairs, which focuses on this, will enable SMEs in the future to develop this innovative strength. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make an appeal to all entrepreneurs who have already been apprentices: It is now important to give up the courage to invest in the future. Please include this year's apprentices, because that's exactly what our experts are doing in the next three or four years! We will need them because we want to come back together to a good prosperity in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e37040	Mr Matznetter has been informed of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e37065	Mr President. The colleague of the Green Group, Jakob Schwarz, said in his speech that in the budget hearing, all the experts would have dissuaded from making an investment and economics package immediately and shooting the powder. I'm actually correcting: We contacted Dr. Markus Marterbauer, who was an expert here, who said exactly the opposite. He has already stressed in his statement of entry that an immediate investment project of at least EUR 1.5 billion must be set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e37099	Mrs Brandstötter is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e37121	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Dear Austrians! Do not let go without moss. – This is especially true for the event and event sector, a sector which, with its suppliers, then generates a turnover of around €9 billion a year and contributes 3.3 percent to GDP. It is an industry that employs 140 000 people, but this industry is invisible. That's actually their purpose, because that's what I'm talking about. The audience, the guests should not see exactly the sound technicians, the lightmen, the stage builders. For a better understanding: The Frequency Festival lasts three days, the industry, the technicians work 11 months on the concept and build up and down twelve days. The problem is that this sector is also invisible to the government. Otherwise, one simply cannot explain the still corruptest aid measures. There will be no Christmas parties this year, there will be no fashion shows, there will be no congresses, there will be no festivals, and there will be no ball season in the beginning of next year. This means that the event industry and the event technology can start working again at the earliest in a year, and most of them have already slid into the pleite. Just yesterday, stage builder A.T.C. 20 employees are also affected. The government's curtailed aid measures are still fuelling this process. That is why we propose a Freeze solution for event and event technology. This means that all payments will be frozen for 365 days. Current loans will not be due until one year. Other payments, such as warehouse rents et cetera, are taken over by the state. So if you, dear ÖVP and Greens, do not want to be responsible for thousands of other bankruptcys and unemployed people, we ask you to take up our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e37160	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e37181	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Since I have trained more than 50 apprentices myself, the theme of the apprenticeship is also a special concern to me. I am particularly pleased that in the present budget the apprentices and this training are appreciated. Many states envy us for this excellent dual training. Especially in industry and crafts, it is important that knowledge transfer works from historically grown skills and techniques to 3D printing. In many sectors, teaching is a means of learning from basic concepts to the high-tech digital world. Euroskills have already been mentioned by my colleague. In the coming year, Euroskills will take place in Graz, then we will again be in the spotlight of professional training. The current and medal statistics are really impressive. The number of apprentices increases and we now have 110 000 apprentices in Austria. In Upper Austria, 50 percent of young people opt for this training route, at least 40 percent throughout Austria. I would also like to draw attention to the Dual Academy. This is a training track for those who have already made the Matura and are now able to learn the teaching profession in a short course. The Dual Academy has its origin in Upper Austria. Our President, Doris Hummer, has been particularly committed to this. In the meantime, this training opportunity is offered in four federal states. It's a real educational innovation for maturants and drop-outs. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Zorba.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would particularly like to thank the entrepreneurs, the apprentices' trainers and the vocational school teachers for their excellent training! Our apprentices get a foundation for life with this kind of training. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Matznetter! I can't think of one thing, because now you're going to rush on us and on the government like this again: You are talking about weaknesses, and obviously you have a special expertise on this subject.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e37236	Mrs Oberrauner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e37257	Mr President. Appreciate High House! Appreciate Mrs Minister! Dear spectators at home! We are in a real economic crisis of a special kind, and we are in three points communicating vessels – I think you will agree with me: The economy works when it has orders and there are people who complete the orders, and the public space and public institutions work when they take the money through taxes. All three things are not secured, and I wonder why you always see every kind of incentive as criticism. We have from the first day submitted an amendment to pay off the damage that no one owes except a virus that we cannot influence. Entrepreneurs have come into this situation without any reason and have been brought about their livelihood – from one second to the other, although one could have dealt with it quite normally. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The situation now is that, although the hardening fund, by which the entrepreneurship wage should be paid, is high, the funds do not arrive; they are starved on their way to reality. The cost of operating, as it fortunately makes the financial office, could work because, I believe, more competent people are responsible for the settlement. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The short-time work is unique in Europe, has also been used by a number of firms, but also has several cases which are very difficult for entrepreneurs, especially small ones. It's about liquidity again and again and everywhere. Of course, large businesses can draw up liquidity from this short work to pre-finance it, but if, for example, they only have to pre-finance three months, then pay a double salary and get the money after three months, then they are likely to fall into a liquidity trap and still become insolvent, even if they have short work. It goes so far that there are already entrepreneurs – and this is really a naughtiness of the very first kindness – who make accounts payments to the workers, namely on the grounds that: We'll pay the rest if we get the promotions. – What is it for national economic access if the shops are locked up so that people buy something, and they don't have money to buy something?- Oh, my God! That's not all right! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also true of small and medium-sized enterprises which have even been insured. If this had been paid for by the Epidemic Act, they would not have needed operational interruption insurance. Now this is no longer striking, because another law is the basis. They have no minimum insurance, no unemployment benefit, but go directly into insolvency and have nothing left. In the case of family holdings, Four family members are involved, and they must be lucky that someone else works to buy their food. This is the reality that is communicated outside, is lived and about which it is concerned. We can't pretend to have done everything well. And then we offer loans, guarantees and loans, but this only shifts the problem; for the loans and the liabilities are an asset to the banks, but at the end of the day, everything is taken away from the person who has received the loan and then guaranteed to the bank. This is a disaster in the economy! If we don't think about how we change this soon, then we don't need to talk about the economy anymore, because we won't have any more! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the topic of Europe: Unless it was thanks that there was Europe, because if it had gone to Austria, we would simply have let Italy die and said: They have their debts and they should pay for themselves. This also accounts for 24 billion euros of trade. Italy is Austria's second largest trading partner, for my Federal Republic of Carinthia it is even the most important trading partner country. What are we talking about? If you don't help Italy, you'll die with it! 24 billion euros we cannot cover from Austria, with nothing! I wonder why we do not expand the horizon, work together for the population and for the businesses and make things right, because all of this is not all right. When I hear the Federal Chancellor calling for optimism, courage and confidence, I say: I need time, then I have to say, We don't have time. It would be better to be responsible, safe and confident about planning and legal certainty. I don't know where we live!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e37337	Mr Minnich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e37358	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear spectators at home in front of the TV screens! Thanks to the many entrepreneurs who endure in these difficult times. I know what I'm talking about. I myself have been able to have many intense and emotional conversations for the last few weeks and months. I myself have been officially blocked as a fashion dealer with 28 employees and two apprentices for more than seven weeks. There was zero turnover, no income. Nevertheless, many bills have come in, there have been bank receipts from suppliers, which the account has unbelievably covered. These are exceptional situations where cohesion is needed. I therefore call on consumers to support our regional small and medium-sized enterprises, to look at businesses, to buy locally, and to put the focus here on jobs in the region. Now it is said to shop on site to strengthen the local economy. I would like to thank our Federal Minister for the support, for the open ear she always has, and also for the intensification. It is particularly important that we are here at the pulse of time to listen to companies and step by step implement measures that help entrepreneurs. It's no shame to improve. It's all better than simply put your head in the sand and push the blame on anyone. We need to get out of here. fight out of this crisis itself. The companies in Austria stand for this. In this sense: Good and a lot of strength!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e37400	I call Mr Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e37422	Mr President. Mr Schramböck! Please do me and the economy a favor and take off your mask! Economy is primarily psychology. If you sit down as an economic minister with the mask, although no one is within a radius of 7 meters, what is that sign that you are setting for the economy?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Schramböck.]] Minister Schramböck, we have tourism, we have economy, we have fashion trading. Mrs Schramböck, what you are doing now is symptomatic for this government. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] They're going through: Panic, fear of death, standstill, you're going through this to the bitter end! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] All you've said is pure make-up, because if you can't play it outside, the businesses and entrepreneurs won't be able to live it either. I am just coming from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and I am sorry to inform you: At present, we have the highest level of unemployment in Austria that we have ever had. We're scratching at the limit of 1.9 million people! [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Half of all...!]] 1.9 million people, and the one thing: They all have much less money in the wallet, whether due to short work or unemployment less. Mrs. Minister, this is fatal for the economy, and you sit there and sell us the beautiful world. Mrs Minister, you too will hopefully have seen these dozens, hundreds of videos by entrepreneurs and, above all, by small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria. There you have seen entrepreneurs crying, not played, but they have really cried, not only because their operation is at the end – partly one-man companies or with two, three employees – but they are also private in the end. They're in the end, Mrs. Minister, and you're playing the beautiful world with your government colleagues, first and foremost Federal Chancellor Kurz. It can't be! It is now high time and perhaps you, Mrs Minister, are setting a sign, because unfortunately God was rejected yesterday's request to abolish the masquerade's obligation. But I urgently ask you: As Minister of Economic Affairs, put a sign of optimism, a sign of normality and at least take off the mask! Take it off, please! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strasser:... has already spoken better!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I'm actually speechless and in the end, because it doesn't help: One can argue with facts, argue with hard numbers. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Straster.]] We have a huge problem in Austria, not only as regards entrepreneurs as regards the economy, but also the whole population. If this government does not start immediately today with finally moving to normal conditions and spreading optimism for entrepreneurs, but also for consumers, then we, Mrs Minister, do not get out of this vicious cycle, and you are responsible for that, at the forefront. I was in the Chamber of Commerce this morning: It is expected that a third of the entrepreneurs will not survive – a third of the entrepreneurs! [[Mr Haubner and Mr Kirchbaumer.]] – That’s what your people, your people from the Economic Union, say even at internal meetings. [[Abg. Kirchbaumer: I'm going...!]] And they also say that they are desperate because they find no hearing, and, Mr Haubner, they wish the old President back. They wish President Leitel back because he still had an influence on real policy. There's no longer any such thing as the ÖVP, Mahrer doesn't matter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] All the regulations that we had – without practice – destroyed the economy, were and are turned off by Mahrer and the Chamber of Commerce. That's why I called again: Mrs. Minister, put a sign, take off the mask! And, please. Economy up! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e37548	Mr Wimmer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e37569	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The German government has reached agreement with Lufthansa in recent days. 9 billion euros, as we have heard, will bring the German taxpayer into this company. The Germans have done this very well, they have secured their participation in the Supervisory Board and they have secured and made a contribution. What was really remarkable, ladies and gentlemen: The German government, or whoever negotiated this, has made it very open and transparent. You can't say that with us. We are now obviously negotiating with the AUA, in the silent chamber, no man knows what is happening. If you ask the Minister for Finance, he will not give any information, and that is exactly what we do not want, ladies and gentlemen. The AUA has a great financial need, that is, 770 million euros to be provided, and I must have smiled a little when I heard the statement of the Lufthansa Executive Board, because it was very self-confident. That's when I thought: If I were to go hiking and collect 13 billion euros, because I absolutely need them, I would dare a little narrower lip! There would have been more humility. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We Socialists have a very clear opinion on how the AUA should continue. Yes, we are, of course, in support of tax money for the Austrian population, but with very clear conditions and with clear conditions. Ladies and gentlemen! The location, the hub, this is a basic condition, but above all, to secure jobs. Not only do you always talk about it, but, ladies and gentlemen of the government, do that, secure the jobs, now there is a possibility, because now you can specify such clauses! The participation in the Supervisory Board has already been addressed. Of course, if you take so much money into your hands, you also have to be able to talk, for example, that there may be no deterioration in the working conditions of the employees. I am saying this because another airline is currently in the headlines. Ryanair and Laudamotion now show us how workers are exploited, how workers are intimidated and how workers are made fit. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a process that is really - – – it is a cleanery, yes! [[Abg. Vogl: Sourry!]] It's a cleanery, what's going on there. These are slave-like states that run there, the very perfide, which are shameful. The poor workers who are affected really do not know how to help at all. It is really unacceptable how the discussions are being held and what the employers are doing. If you were in the state of illness, you'd have to step there and get down when you're lucky and don't get thrown out. If one does not achieve the goals of selling – in the cabin where the ladies and gentlemen have to sell something – one is also in front of the Kadi. So these are states that are breathtaking, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Over the last few weeks, we have seen that Laudamotion has created a collective agreement, a collective agreement for flight attendants, with whom the ladies and gentlemen would say and write 1 000 euros gross – 1 000 euros gross for trained workers, colleagues! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cannon]] There is 900 euros as an apprentice compensation in the electrical industry in the first year of teaching, at McDonald’s, the apprentice gets 830 euros in the first year of teaching, the maurer earns 1 000 euros in the first year of teaching, and the assistant worker in the metal industry earns 2 000 euros. Ladies and gentlemen, these 1 000 euros gross for the flight attendants in this collective treaty are actually a demonstration of disrespect and provocation! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why I am so excited, ladies and gentlemen, because it is not a company that sleeps on hunger. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] This is a company that makes billions of profits. If you look at the managing director how he works – 99 million euros last year he paid himself to his Gage, I think, 3.6 million euros – then this is absolutely not all right as people are being treated. [[Abg. Hörl:... union!]] Of course, the trade union cannot agree here. The trade union cannot agree to such a collective agreement, even if it is always tried to work with blackmail. I have learned that now another ultimatum has been set: By tomorrow, the trade union will sign, then the location would not be closed. All this is Larifari, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] They want to say goodbye to Laudamotion from Austria and they will do it with their own aircraft from Ryanair. Another sentence before I'm really done: What really upsets me and what's really not okay – unfortunately, the Secretary-General's head is not in the hall, but, Mr. Peter Haubner, perhaps you take it with you today for the Secretary-General – is that the Chamber of Commerce has signed this collective agreement. Why has it signed a collective agreement, after which flight attendants are paid with a lower amount than the minimum guarantee in Austria? I know you can't let the past come back to life, but Mr Wurm mentioned Mr Leitl earlier. To be honest, none of these presidents – neither President Sallinger nor President Leitel – would have let it go through in any form. [[Abg. Prince: The Madethaner was also in between!]] It is really a shame that the Chamber of Commerce has signed such a collective agreement!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e37671	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e37695	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the end of this sub-chapter, I would like to address another politically very important area, which is also a very important impetus for the economy: This is the thermal rehabilitation. In the sub-chapter economy, no more means are provided for thermal rehabilitation. In 2018 it was still 43 million euros. [[Abg. Haubner: We've had that today!]] – We have had that, but now it is missing exactly in this area, because there it belongs from my point of view. I can also tell you exactly why: Thermal rehabilitation is an essential economic factor. When you invest 1 million euros in thermal rehabilitation, you secure full-time jobs for 23 people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Under SPÖ, 1.5 percent of all households – 27 000 of them – were thermally renovated. This means that 62 600 full-time jobs have been secured. That's a huge number. The resources for thermal rehabilitation have migrated to the environment, and there are now 103.7 million euros for this. The politically agreed commitment framework is 142 million euros. In fact, this is not really more quantitative than it was originally, because there is a new priority, namely the replacement of old heatings. They call the out-of-the-oil bonus. This is, of course, very useful ecologically and an important area, but it would require its own funding pot, because a large part of this funding amount, namely 100 million euros, goes up for this out-of-the-oil bonus. For the actual renovation, only 42 million euros remain. Something really didn't improve. The thermal insulation of the houses does not really have much to do with this area. There are very intensive family houses being promoted. This is exactly the opposite of what you wrote in the government program, because there you confess to multi-story housing, and to slow down the sealing of the natural and arable areas. For this to happen, we need to invest more in multi-storey housing. That is, turquoise green makes living on the green meadow and in the bacon more attractive, which in itself is a wrong priority, which harms the environment and makes living in Austria more expensive. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The bill for the actual thermal renovation does not start. It is too little for the environment, but also too little for the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e37741	There are no more words available. The discussions on this subject will therefore end. [[15:33:48]] UG 42: Agriculture, regions and tourism
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e37763	We come to Division 42: Agriculture, regions and tourism. Mr Ecker has been mentioned in the debate. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e37787	Mr President. Women Ministers! At the beginning of my remarks, allow me to thank the local farmers. Not only since the Corona crisis have they made sure that our tables are covered, that our storehouses are filled, but they are also the guarantee of a very high level of self-sufficiency with domestic food. – Thank you for that! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, a budget is the political will cast in figures. It is precisely this will to enable investment and to provide support in this particularly difficult situation. This will ensure the further development of our country. But this draft budget makes clear what this government really wants: a free letter for billions of taxpayers, which can then be granted without any parliamentary control. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This will is reflected in the already existing corona aid packages. To date, in the House, we do not know who gets how much support on the basis of which the funding is provided. This simply cannot be in the sense of the government and is totally opaque. I can tell you one thing: In the case of entrepreneurs, farmers and farmers, the corona aid has so far arrived very little. My Dear Ones Ladies from the Federal Government, go out and ask the people! Unfortunately, only 1.5 percent of the corona aid arrived. I would like to give you a picture of how farmers feel about how the entrepreneurs feel: Jobs Imagine a lake and imagine a person fighting and drowning in it. On the shore, the government says: We'll pay you a swimming course soon! – That’s exactly how people feel! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But now on the subject of negotiation, on the draft budget for agriculture and forestry: Our local farmers have suffered losses due to the corona crisis. They have to sell their products at some dumping prices, the beef market has broken down, important customers have arrived and the harvest aid scheme has unfortunately been implemented too late. In addition, climate change causes fields to dry up and extreme weather fluctuations have destroyed entire crops. As an agricultural speaker in my group, I can say quite clearly: The local farmers need urgent help. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, the draft budget presented by the Federal Government clearly shows its real will. There's nothing to be seen in it that's taking these people under the arms. The figures in the draft budget are outdated, unconstitutional. Yesterday came our accusation: The budget is unconstitutional. – Today, Minister of Finance Blümel is thank God. The statements and measures on the planned project are incorrect, and in each fourth sentence – with reference to the Corona crisis – it is strongly pointed out that all of this is only indicative. I would like to say to one of the esteemed Federal Government: If the creation of this budget were a matura task or a school subject, you could now leave the hall with not enough. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I ask you here and today: Can the statement – and I quote – that the 2020 budget estimate had been drawn up prior to the outbreak of the Corona crisis, so that in UG 42 no covid-19 costs were estimated to save a single company? - I don't mean. Can the statement that the time for planning and implementation depends on the development of the corona crisis save a single guard who lost the entire harvest due to the surprising frost break in April? - No, she can't! [[Abg. Jewelry beaters: You can't insure that!]] We now need more than ever a budget which represents a clear commitment to local agriculture, especially for farmers with small and medium-sized farms. We need an increased investment in order to ensure food supply, because at the beginning of the crisis, the Hamstrengths have shown us quite clearly that this issue will continue to concern us. Where are the funds for the reduction of pesticides in agriculture? I ask the Green Group: Where do you stand on this question? – We don’t want any poison on our meadows and fields, that’s also your intention. Where do you stand on this question? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It takes well-filled conveyors to make the switch to alternative options attractive. The crisis has also brought a gratifying change, because many people, many citizens in this country, want regional products on the counties. In order for us to implement the implementation of a real food label, it takes money, because people want to know what is happening on their plates and where it comes from. Ladies and gentlemen, deciding on a budget is one of the most important and central tasks that we, as Members of this House, should fulfil here in the House, therefore we must show more self-confidence and defend ourselves if the government presents us with wrong or no correct figures. My appeal to the end is therefore: Let us send this numbering cemetery back and let us confidently vote against this draft budget!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e37856	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e37877	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of the year when the new government was fishing, there was something particularly important about the allocation of ministries, which I was particularly pleased with: the allocation of broadband to the Ministry of Agriculture, Regions and Tourism. The development of broadband infrastructure is a regional theme: The more rural, thinly populated, the more difficult and increasing broadband development is, and the more urban, the better competition and the conditions for operators, for providers, to invest. The broadband agendas are therefore well removed in the Ministry of Regions in order to create equivalent living conditions in the city and country. – Thank you now for the good cooperation that has existed since the beginning of the year. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The Corona crisis with the lake at Home Office, Distancelearning, Videostreaming has shown that we have a stable network in Austria; however, it has to be said that there are still white spots and places that have a weak bandwidth, where online activities are only possible with a lot of patience or with a time limit. When we think of future developments – IOT, Smartliving, Videostreaming et cetera – or also have the desirable thought that many things that we have now used and implemented in the crisis remain in the future, for example Teleworking, Home Office, it is clear: We also need to invest in rural areas when it comes to broadband infrastructure. As a government party, we have set ourselves the goal of continuing the already existing funding. The 2030 broadband strategy was presented last summer, which is also a guideline for the coming years from 2021 when it comes to promoting broadband development. Of course, we also want to use revenue from frequency auctions for infrastructure expansion, with a budget of 400 million euros on the revenue side. We will of course only know at the end of the day how Much comes out of the auction, but it is already clear today that we will again invest these millions in the infrastructure, together with the already existing billions that come from another auction. Critics will now ask: Okay, where's that going in the budget? On the other hand, there is the auction, but where is the investment in infrastructure on the part of expenditure? – To do this, I would like to: In Austria, the research promotion company is responsible for broadband promotion and, accordingly, the funds are also committed. It has the liquidity, the resources and, of course, it also grants them, so they are not visible in the budget to this extent either. It is also seen, however, that only in March has 150 million euros been invested for the expansion in around 300 municipalities, which is a good goal. Together with the support, however, the second part is also very important, to which we will devote ourselves in 2020: This is the legal basis. We will facilitate the creation of infrastructure and strengthen and promote cooperation at different levels – between the federal government, country, local authorities and the operator side. Regardless of whether glass fiber or 5G, we will also invest in the future – for a good future, infrastructure in our regions, in the country as well as in the city. I think there's a good end to this investment. - Thank you, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e37925	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e37947	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Budget Agriculture: We stand here and distribute money, but unfortunately there is very little on the farm family farms. Rural development EUR 814 million; Market rules, direct payments EUR 674 million; Protection against natural hazards 250 million euros; agriculture and forestry 173 million euros; Tourism 56 million euros; Broadband expansion EUR 44 million. – So much to the current figures. We have currently heard that the EU agricultural budget will be reduced. I hope, Minister, that you will remain in your promise that there will be no cuts for the Austrian rural family farms. We should not forget today – it has often been talked about the Corona crisis – who the silent heroes were in this crisis. It was not the food chains, it was not the manufacturing industry that, despite the famine of farmers instead of relying on domestic suppliers and supporting them, imported still hard goods from abroad. No, the true heroes of this crisis were the farmers. They are the ones who have continued to be in the field, in the stable, in the forest and at the farm despite uncertainties, they have maintained the supply of regional food, they are the security islands that we will also need in the future to deal with crises – and this despite hardships, despite conditions, despite directives. The crisis – Mr Ecker has already mentioned it – has further aggravated the situation in agriculture. Meat and pigmeat prices have fallen, the milk price has fallen under pressure, farmed cattle sales have become virtually impossible, tourism as an important partner, the hotel industry and the gastronomy have disappeared, the wood prices are in the basement. Farmer mortality is on the rise and the previous measures of the ÖVP have not started a trend change. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] The farmers stand with their backs to the wall. What are the 18 Federal Farmers' Deputies doing? – Except for announcements and self-scheduling, not much. An example is the following announcement: More fairness for agricultural producers! – The farmers have not felt any more fairness so far. Regionality Summit: Representatives of food trade, the Chamber of Agriculture, the Chamber of Commerce and the Trade Association were invited by you to support the farmers. – Three days later, the trade with a sluggish price action for foreign butter has responded to your summit. ‘It costs what it wants’: The situation on the farms is dramatic. discharge measures for agriculture are urgently needed – unfortunately there is not much to be seen in this budget. Something has to be done. Our government abandons our farmers, agriculture needs to be rethinked. Regional production needs to be expanded so that self-sufficiency is not only ensured in times of crisis. Despite the corona crisis, we do not see any major changes in favour of agriculture. – I would have expected more, more recognition and more visions for the future. For this reason, Mrs Minister, as the first discharge measure for farmers, I would like to make a request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[15:49]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e38069	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] Mr Stammler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e38099	Mr President. Minister of Finance! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers in front of the screens! Shutdown – crisis times have some good things, though not at first sight, but they release problems and they show us very clearly what is really important. As agricultural farmers and farmers, I have often been very difficult to clarify to a consumer, to a consumer, how important agriculture is in Austria, because it is difficult to clarify the importance of a country's food sovereignty when the supermarket shelves are full, namely to the fullest. Although they were in the crisis – except for the paper – but still the awareness in the population has changed and it is very clear how important and how valuable regional food is in a crisis. That's the same thing you've noticed in the care profession. That is, in a crisis, the basic needs are already very clear and these basic needs are perceived and felt quite differently. However, European agriculture is not only in a corona crisis, it is also fighting a climate crisis and for years with an overload crisis. In the daily struggle around structural change, most farmers took the flight forward and were partially doubled twice per generation of stables, livestock stock. How hopeless this is, I would like to show by means of a number: Belgium's largest pigmaid has as many pigs as the entire Styria. That is, Austria's path can never be expansion, mass production, but Austria's path can only be in quality production. Agriculture is a lot more than just the production of calories. We should ensure that in 100 years there is also a world in which we can feed people in which there is There are soils that can still store CO2 – and we see just how the forests die away that serve as CO2 storage. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] According to the Green Report, the hourly wage for many livestock holdings is about 5 euros per hour. Who is surprised that in Europe the age of more than half of farm managers in agriculture is above the age of retirement? In Austria it's a lot better, with us it's just a short quarter – so to do as if we were so bad in Austria, it's not quite right either. But I believe that what you should think much more about is: Where does that lead? Those who observe the agricultural world a little bit notice that the financial market buys space not only in Europe but also in Austria. Agricultural area is purchased as an investment. This is often not noticed because it is managed by the peasant families, but not as a separate reason, but as a lease ground. At the same time, agriculture 4.0 is making itself very wide. Already, Bayer, Google, collects volumes of data from Amazon, and this data is stored and owned by these companies. Thus, an ageing agriculture can also be met by industrializing it by allowing it to be managed more or less by robotics and GPS. This works in favors, not in mountain ranges. The old class struggle, which the SPÖ always loves to play, the working class against the peasant class, has not existed for a long time; it is a history of the previous millennium. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Much more should one consider whether one really has such fear of the farmers, because where do food prices go when food production is in the hands of individual companies when we depend on a few companies called Google, called Bayer, called Amazon? As has been said, it is not just about the production of calories, but about biodiversity, about animal welfare, about humus construction, about the management of our mountain areas. It is quite clear that we also need support after the corona crisis in agriculture. A first step towards this would be – and therefore I would also ask the Federal Ministers of Agriculture to work in Brussels to ensure that the 1.42 percent of the crisis aid fund of the first pillar in the CAP is distributed to farmers, for when should the funds of a crisis aid fund be allocated if not in one of the greatest crises of this century? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e38167	Members of the European Parliament are speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e38188	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, in principle, the same applies to this budget as for the entire budget, and the agricultural budget is, of course, outdated. This week we have already talked about the fact that we are discussing old figures, and I am now quite sure that the Members of the ÖVP and of the Greens are already very upset about this. Today we have also heard that this is probably unconstitutional – but as I said, this is not the issue now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] [[Call:... not so important]] It is a wrong budget, but let us still talk about what the Federal Minister has planned before this corona crisis. However, I would like to make a brief analysis of the current situation in agriculture, because it is really dramatic at the moment: The farms suffer massively from the collapse of the sales, especially in the gastronomy. They face overpowered trade that dictates prices. There is an AMA marketing that doesn't care about anything de facto, except that she's shooting pretty advertising videos, but she's not watching anything when it comes to overpowering trade, and private economic, agricultural initiatives are also broken down. This is more than anything else, important funds are being lowered, see network culinarys; even there one has still not really come to mind, as the answer to our last request very clearly shows. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Vogl.]] The forestry can no longer export, there is so much shade in the forest that it cannot even be picked up again. The prices are in the basement, the farms can no longer afford to do so. And yes, the climate crisis has, of course, arrived massively with farmers: Dryness, storms, pests, crop failures – that's the reality. It is amazing that these circumstances are not really pictured in the 2020 budget. There are small steps in the right direction, and there are also wheels on which it is turned, but that won't be enough. One thing is also quite clear: It simply cannot be the solution to take more and more money into the hands of support, to help farmers or the institutions, and thus to ensure that, in Austria – we are still in Austria – at world market prices, and that this is also partially sent to exports. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Forgedlechner.]] Nor can it be the solution that regionality saves Austrian agriculture; that is clear. Despite the many privileges that have been created for agriculture – social security, packings – real incomes in agriculture are falling. You see it in the Green Report every year, but it is not enough. This is the problem, we need to talk about it, and we really need to reinvent agriculture in order to lead it into a positive future. Let me also say something positive: We have to talk about it, we have to get into action, we have to get into action, but what I want to say positively is that we have a very constructive mood in the Committee on Agriculture. That is, there is really a climate of conversation in which you can actually talk and discuss each other. In this way, we always succeed in voting common requests from us, from the opposition. On Friday, two of them, which are out of our hands, will be taken together with small changes. In other words, it is possible to do something across party borders too, and therefore I would be delighted if we could take more and more such steps. You have to understand that I am of course very impatient as an agricultural speaker from NEOS. Much more has to be done, and that is why it is particularly bad – if you look at the area, you can see that – that even there have been too few budgetary resources, although you have committed yourself to doing so in your government programme. A whole, very important For us, for example, the field is basic research on resource availability and its ecological functions, such as soil or biodiversity. I know you said in committee: This has been moved to the Ministry of the Environment to Mrs. Geessler! It is only there budgetaryly unfortunately not shown. There is now a budget for research and development in the field of alternative plant protection products and plant protection products, but that is relatively low and the age simply will not be enough to take real steps forward. Finally, as spokesperson for regional development, I would like to say a word on telecommunications and broadband development – we also discussed this at the last Committee meeting. Yes, it is positive that more resources are made available, but it is already interesting: If you calculate a little further, you can see that Austria is really the final light in Europe in the field of fiber optics. There is an article in the “standard ” today that explains it quite well. The main problem – you have said it yourself – is not that the funds are not there; they have not even been picked up. [[towards Federal Minister Köstinger]] That is to say, there is really a structural problem that you have to solve, and your house, I think, is also required to produce this trans-regional plan, so that not every municipality builds its own plan and then finally does not go on. This is far too expensive, this is inefficient – the Court of Auditors has already pointed out in 2018 – and at the end of the day it is fatal for the site, because we are concerned that we are expanding the rural location. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e38246	Mrs. Köstinger has been reported to speak. - You have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e38267	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The past weeks and months have all been a real challenge for all of us, and I think we have never heard the words critical infrastructure, security of supply and system relevance as often as we have in recent weeks and months. One thing I would like to stress right at the beginning: At this time, Austrian agriculture has demonstrated its crisis strength and system relevance impressively. At no time in the crisis did we have to worry about security of supply in Austria, especially in food. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Our farmers have worked and produced every day, our farms have made sure that the Austrians do not have to worry about empty shelves and empty plates. Our farmers are also responsible for the best food in the crisis, and they are very grateful for that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Agriculture is critical infrastructure, which must always be aware of us, including outside of the crisis; therefore, the Austrian path is to centre the farming family farms and not only to promote intensive food production, but above all, to move overland agriculture and global agricultural production to the centre of agricultural policy, the right one, and with this budget we will continue this path in Austria. With the increase in funding compared with the previous year in the Federal estimates for 2020, important emphasis has been placed on the budget for agriculture, regions and tourism. It continues to enable the strengthening of rural areas, regional policy and, above all, tourism. We are a very broad establishment, all the important agendas concerning rural areas are under one roof, and this is the case this year. of EUR 2.67 billion. We will be able to implement important projects in agriculture and regional policy. For rural development and regional policy, EUR 813 million will be available, which will be used for the whole of rural areas, its infrastructure and numerous environmental measures. For our agriculture, it is very important that we can also ensure direct payments of EUR 632 million for our rural family farms. National funds and contributions are fully financed and co-financing is thus ensured. For years, the forest and forestry industry in Austria has been under massive pressure due to drought, strong weather events – storms, snowbreaks and the like – and now also due to the borch beetle infestation. It needs targeted support to improve the situation. We will also continue to support, particularly in the field of research and development. What it's all about in the last episode: We want to offer a perspective to the forest farmers so that they can start planting again now, about which we are already in intensive contact with the federal states. Another important area is the protection against natural hazards. It has succeeded in increasing the budget by around 46 million euros, and thus 250 million euros are available for the construction of wildlife and avalanche and also for the protection of water. The improvement of the protection of settlements and infrastructure can not only be continued, but also strengthened. As a strong commitment to the ecologicalisation of our rivers and waters, we have today decided in the Council of Ministers that water ecological measures will be made available EUR 200 million. We are also creating around 8 500 jobs in regional companies throughout the country. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Investments in water and wastewater projects, which are among the most important tasks of the municipalities and regions, are expected to be around 314 million euros this year. Austrian mining is an important and indispensable basis for industrial production and therefore also very important for us as an economic location. Raw materials and raw materials contribute to the generation of around one quarter of the Austrian gross domestic product. Of course, the proceeds from the exploitation of the federal property also make a significant contribution to the Federal estimate. In two other areas, financing will be ensured: This concerns, on the one hand, broadband development, which, as has already been mentioned, is essential, especially for our rural regions, and on the other hand civil service. Civil service is particularly important for our regions, for our health system. As far as broadband links are concerned, we are in the process of holding a frequency auction, whose proceeds are intended for further broadband development. This is especially about similar living conditions and opportunities for city and country. Civil service is an indispensable pillar in our country; for this, payments of around 50 million euros are budgeted. We have seen in recent weeks what important strategic reserve of civil service for our health system means. For the first time in the Second Republic, we have called for an extraordinary civil service and, above all, because of the really great performance of our civilian servants, we have come through this crisis. – At this point a warm thanks for it. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to address tourism, which has been in a situation that has never been before, especially for our generation. ==References== The corona virus continues to have a strong grip on the world and Austria. In particular, the limited freedom of travel is something that makes the industry massive. And even though it may often appear different at the moment: We are still in the middle of this crisis. Although the number of new infections remains very low in Austria in particular – these case figures confirm our actions in particular – it will now be important that we focus on our holidays in Austria, our Austrian hospitality and our family businesses, and ensure that we come together with our great companies in the area of tourism and in the field of gastronomy over this very difficult and challenging time. Tourism is essential to us in terms of economic performance in terms of securing jobs, especially in rural areas. Its contribution to economic performance is about 15 percent, and if you look at unemployment figures at the moment, you can see what essential and important job factors of tourism and gastronomy are for Austria. It is therefore important, above all, to help specifically to support, and as a Federal Government, we will be able to design this with your help, especially here from the High House, and we will also be able to re-lock the re-surgence together. The budget for rural areas, for the regions, ladies and gentlemen, is assured. We will set important impulses. But above all, we will also set the right course and take the right measures in terms of resumption and the comeback of Austria in our indispensable economic and work areas. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e38373	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e38395	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning a few thoughts on the speech by Mr Schmiedlechner: I thank you for the suggestions, including for the tonality. That's how we can talk to each other, that's right! I would remind you, however, that we were in a government together for almost a year and a half and a half, and the farmers have sometimes come across their borders at FPÖ, see plant protection and see the decisions on steel breaks. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] So let's just stay on the ground and try to work together on solutions because we don't have it easy outside in practice. To Colleagues Double Bauer: First of all, thank you, NEOS and Green, good conversation base, common applications, which goes in the right direction, but critical replik: [[Rejoicing with representatives of SPÖ and FPÖ]] Take a look at the culinary area of Austria! This is a reform project. If you goog: buy directly from the farmer, then the first page that is displayed is freshzumir.at, and it was a gold pit in the Corona crisis. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Double farmer.]] She stems from the idea and commitment of an excellent employee, Christina Mutenthaler. I recommend a briefing. We are absolutely on the right path with the cuisine Austria. – Thanks also to the employees there. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] But it is still – I am again with colleagues Schmiedlechner – agriculture in a precarious situation. This was also to be read on the tonality and on the statements made by the Federal Minister. But it is still a day today that gives reason to have hope, because the budget is fine, the figures are secured and the projects are on the table and are already in implementation. [[Call the SPÖ: Good joke! He was good!]] The main problem currently facing us is price situations which have deteriorated as a result of the corona crisis, and thus income situations throughout Europe that worry us. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] For this reason – European activities –: We fight for every cent. The patch in Brussels is a smooth one, and we will see that from Brussels we pick up every cent there is to pick up. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The other area is national activities, also there the budget – I have already mentioned –: It is good that there are the essential points in there and that the government programme is based on the fact that, when it comes to Brussels, it will be balanced at national level; we will also make this statement over the next few months. – Thank you for the support of the Federal Government as a whole. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] It is a tax and tax relief package and a forest package in preparation, and we urgently need it. But it will be much more important – I would like to put Peter Schmiedlechner back on the way; from the many oppositional calls we now receive from other groups – together to fight for proper market prices. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Anger]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] Look for the dialogue with the trade chains! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It is a project of the government entitled Austria has been launched regionally. The added value of this project will be even better food for Austrians and more price stability for Austrian farmers. There binding things are agreed. Peter, I'm looking for you, help us get something together in your area! [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] There's a lot at stake here and we're going to put a lot on the way for the Austrians. In conclusion: Thank you to all farmers, you have done a great job alongside many other professional groups in this country during the Corona crisis. Good luck! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e38504	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e38536	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the Federal Constitution, there are three basic rules for the budget: The budget must be true, the budget must be clear and it must be transparent. We have been calling on the Minister of Finance, together with the NEOS and the Freemans, to present the real, true figures as an opposition for weeks. Today, we have also presented an opinion which states that all three constitutional rules concerning budget creation are broken by Mr Blümel. - That's the bad news. The good news is: I take from the “Wiener Zeitung” and other media that the Minister of Finance finally surrenders and is finally ready to put the true, real figures on to put the table – and I like that in principle once. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] He told us about the media that there will be an amendment, that one would be prepared. In this context, I should like to draw attention to another serious craftsmanship mistake of Minister of Finance Blümel, and I would really ask the coalition parties to fix this serious mistake in this amendment. What is this serious mistake? – The Federal Finance Act provides that the Minister of Finance may transfer an account by EUR 28 billion. There is also an account number, namely 450 206. He may cover this account for Covid-19 measures by EUR 28 billion. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We've looked through the entire budget tile, but this account doesn't exist. [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] In other words, the Minister of Finance is entitled to transfer an account that is stupidly not available. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I would like to ask you to include the right account number in this amendment, otherwise the entire Covid-19 measures are at risk because it is not allowed to cross an account that is not available – and that is why it is not allowed to cross an account. I am really looking for the Minister of Finance to fix these serious mistakes and no longer make them in the future. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If you need help on how to create a budget, we will not only help with the constitutional rules but also with the small accounting rules so that they will be respected in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e38620	Mr Klubobfrau's representative, Mr Leichtfried, spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e38647	Mr President, allow me a sentence which is not in accordance with the rules of procedure, so that we can proceed to the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not how it goes. You have to say that quite clearly once. Mr President, my statement on the Rules of Procedure: It is now clear that several gross errors have occurred in this draft budget, and now suddenly the great insight is made that these errors have happened and the Minister of Finance now decides, in the middle of the budget debate, after all the committee meetings have ended after the hearing has ended, to change this overall budget proposal with a request. [[Call the ÖVP: Who says that?]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Köstinger.]] This is not an access to a budget debate, Mr President, one has to say quite clearly. [[Sustained by SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS.]] We are currently discussing, ladies and gentlemen, an unconstitutional budget in which 38 billion euros are booked in the wrong account, and that is something that I do not think this House can offer. Mr President, as President of the National Council, I would like to ask you, first of all: Is there this amendment?, second, if there is it: When does he come?, thirdly: What is the content of this request? and, fourthly, to interrupt the session until these things are clarified. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e38703	Mr Scherak spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e38728	Mr President. I can only agree with what Mr Leichtfried has said, and I can only very much point out that the government parties should make this amendment – if there is it – which must be very comprehensive, because the criticism was a very comprehensive one and simply requires comprehensive technical changes to be made as quickly as possible. What cannot be, then, is that we will have this amendment tomorrow shortly before a comprehensive, long, large vote – as the Rules of Procedure would allow – and have no opportunity to understand it. This will have to be a big, bigger work, otherwise it will not go. And if this is to be done in the short term and we vote on it, then it is anything but serious and has nothing to do with living parliamentaryism. The only way I believe that this Parliament will then be able to refer the budget back to the Committee, at least because it is simply not possible to understand an amendment shortly before a vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e38755	For business treatment: Mr Angerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e38779	Mr President. We have been drawing attention to this for weeks on the part of the opposition parties, and the Minister of Finance has repeatedly pointed to this fact – that he should adjust the budget to provide the relevant documentation. I can only join my previous speakers. It was also common practice in the past that either the Secretary of State or the Minister of Finance was present at the budgetary negotiations and here at the debate, so I also put the request for Mr Finanzminister's accession.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e38810	For business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann Wöinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e38834	Mr President. It seems that the budget debate needs its oppositional peak every day. [[Call the SPÖ:Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Further call at the SPÖ:A budget needs the debate!]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] – You said you didn’t want it anyway, so why? Federal Minister Blümel has announced that there will be an amendment. [[Call:Genau]] We will forward it in time. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Call:What's in time]] [[Further calls at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] The right time is – not according to the Rules of Procedure, but after the use of the House – a day before the vote. We will decide the budget as government fractions tomorrow in the evening – we expect it to be. Due to the day-block time that we agreed in the presidency, tomorrow this will not take place before 19 or 20 o'clock, and we will forward the request for amendment to the House's use – I say again: not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because we could also bring it in tomorrow evening, but in line with the House's use – today, so that sufficient time will remain until the final elections will take place tomorrow evening. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] It has rightly been said that the application has been announced – we will ensure that the application is submitted in good time.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e38927	There is currently no amendment to the Bureau on this subject. I must, however, vote directly on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Angerer. I ask the clubmen if I can do this, whether their mandates are there. [[Abg. Lightenness: (the hand lifted up and raised from his seat) Mr. President!]] – Would you like another session break? - No? [[Call:No]] [[Abg. Lightness: Yes!]] [[More ……]] - Well, then I'll interrupt the session. [[Abg. Lightenness: (coming out of his bank series and raising his hand again) Mr President!]] I'm interrupting the meeting. [[The sitting was suspended at 16.24 a.m. and resumed at 16.25 a.m.]] I will resume the interrupted session and give the floor to Mr Sleichfried, Vice-Clubobmann, to business.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e39031	Mr President. I just wanted to draw attention to the fact that I She also asked, if it is clear – and it seems clear now – that such a request is coming to a halt until the request is made, because we are now discussing numbers that are no longer relevant. I would ask you to take this into account in your considerations for the further management of the sitting.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e39055	Mr. Klubobmann Wöginger on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e39080	So I see no need for this meeting to be interrupted at all. I have announced that this amendment will be timely. Secondly, I have been a member of this House for 18 years, and I think it is the first question of quotation, according to which, while a sub-division is being discussed, while agriculture, tourism and cetera are being discussed and the minister responsible for the sector is present, the Minister of Finance should be quoted. This is also unique, which is now so to speak. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Thirdly, I would like to say the following: Perhaps you will send into the Presidential those people who will then also stand on what is agreed in the Presidential. We have agreed that the political groups will be consulted before a vote is taken. And, Mr Leichtfried, even if you are a club chairwoman: You can't just sit down when the President interrupted the meeting and say: I would like to speak on the Rules of Procedure, and your Members will be upset. . So I ask you to look into the Rules of Procedure; if the sitting is interrupted, it is interrupted!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e39128	I'm interrupting the meeting for 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e39156	I'll start the interrupted session again. I ask the clubmen if I can proceed to the vote. Mr Leichtfried, can I proceed to the vote? Mr Maurer has yet to speak on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e39193	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out once again at this point – perhaps also for the audience who find this story a bit strange here –: We have agreed on several occasions in the Bureau on the procedure for voting, that during Covid-19 and as long as we have these seats in this House, at the appropriate intervals, before holding a vote, it is asked whether the sitting should be suspended, so that those Members who are in other parts of the House – for example, in the roof foyer – have enough time to move back here. [[Abg. Kuntzl: This is a new situation!]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] That's the agreement. If the President interrupts the meeting in order to make this possible and then to be able to vote on the FPÖ's citation request – that was the framework of this history – it is absolutely correct and correct. If you speak in an interrupted session, you don't have the right to get the word, I'm sorry. [[Prolonged condolences with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rendi-Wagner.]] - I'm not talking about you, I'm talking about him. [[New call of the abg. Rendi-Wagner.]] We now had this situation several times. Jörg Leichtfried, you were present in these presidents yourself and you know this regulation, and it has been done completely correctly. Of course, a new word on business treatment is possible at any time, but not if the voting process is already running – and that has already happened in this situation. [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: Thank you for your permission!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e39266	For business treatment: Mr Leichtfried. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e39290	Mr President. I must confess: I have felt it subjectively so that I spoke before interrupting the sitting and before entering the voting process. If this has not been the case, I take note of course that this agreement applies in this way. [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: But it was the case!]] It was the case for me. But I would like to say one thing: When and how I have spoken, it may be interesting for some specialists in the Rules of Procedure here in the House, but that we should vote within a few hours on a completely new budget, which was neither in the hearing nor here discussed, and that will no longer be a time to discuss in detail, is the real scandal – and not who will report when to speak!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e39356	For business treatment: Mr Angerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e39380	Mr President. I have once again made a statement on business and on my request to speak, because there has now been a little discussion on voting. I do not even want us to win or lose a vote, I must honestly say, not whether enough Members of the government are here or not to prevent the Minister of Finance from coming, but: The Minister of Finance has been telling us for weeks that he will not change this budget, because it is pointless because no number he would write into this budget is right now, and presents us with a budget that we have been criticising for weeks, which is three months old and which will obviously be out of validity – and now we learn from the paper that a new budget, an amendment proposal is to be submitted in the middle of the budget debate. [[Call to the ÖVP:To the Rules of Procedure!]] So even if we should not win or become this vote now, because it will reject the majority, respect for Parliament would give Mr Finanzminister that he should appear here and explain what he is doing.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e39412	I ask the clubmen once again whether all the ladies and gentlemen are here so that we can vote. – Then we vote. We shall come to the vote on the quotations. Whoever is in favour of the Minister of Finance having to appear, I ask him for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We are continuing the sitting and I am seeking to forward the amendment to the Bureau as soon as possible. Mrs Vogler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e39476	Mr President. Gospod President! Spoštovane lady in gospodje! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I notice that there is still a storm here, and in agriculture too, we have to fight with storm, in agriculture we have to fight with heat, drought and heavy rain, and we do so – not well, not yet well – and even in this House we seem to be doing differently with different conditions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let us take the example from agriculture, how to do it! A agriculture that meets the current challenges is one that is committed to nature, one that understands it in this climate crisis to bind CO2, which is going an Austrian path to crisis-proof agriculture. The key task of agriculture is to safeguard the food of the Austrian population, to ensure that we do not starve – similar to our budget – the assurance of certainty: It'll be enough for us to go our way. If we're in a hurry, then we should go slowly, not chain hush-push packages, but have in mind that we're building on a good future. How can this be achieved in agriculture? – It can succeed by using public funds for public services, i.e. the ecological compensation that agriculture provides. It is just organic farmers who protect our soil that protect our groundwater, which see the conservation of biodiversity as a clear priority of their activity. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] We have clearly defined in our government agreement that in the future implementation of measures of the common agricultural policy at national level these will be assessed for climate change and will be subject to an environmental impact assessment. That means quite clearly, we are examining the footprint left by agriculture. And believe me one: No one in this house is our farm, our rural families are no matter. There is no one who wishes to do so if there is too little money to pay the monthly bills – whether it's farmers, whether it's the cashier, whether it's the lawyer, whether it's the doctor or anyone else. We all live in a famous Austria, we will manage together that we will all have a good future before us – and we will also master this crisis, whether it be in the times of Corona, whether it be later. When we look back in 15 years, we will be able to say: Yes, we have made the turnaround and turned the climate crisis away – for our children and grandchildren. I am particularly pleased that last week the European Commission's bioeconomic strategy was presented to the effect that the Farm-to-Fork strategy was presented, which has changed substantially: We have brought consumers into the boat. I have been saying this for two decades, in which I deal with agriculture: The most important partners in agriculture are the consumers, and they are also our common ambassadors. We will work together to bring agriculture into a future where we will bring 50 percent less pesticides. In the future, we will be able to make the population completely transparent where the food comes from, For on that she has a right to know: Where are the food produced, where are they processed and what do they find? That is what is now being started with the Farm-to-Fork strategy. Corona has shown that we don't need to wander far, because the good is so close to us. Whether it is meat, milk, bread or vegetables, we buy it from farmers next door and we build a visionary and sustainable agriculture!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e39539	Mr Hauser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e39560	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Madam Minister, today we write the 27th. May, today our establishments, the accommodation establishments, are given a regulation to lock up on 29 May. May. [[Federal Minister Köstinger: Not from me!]] – I know, Madam Minister, but you are the Minister of Tourism, you have influence. Today, two days before, the establishments are given the regulation in which they can lock up under what conditions. Our businesses are great, thank God, but they can't be enchanted either. If I look into this regulation now, I ask you: How is the operation to implement this? Bathroom Hygiene Tag: It says that entrepreneurs have to adopt the measures ‘in line with the state of science’. – Two days before! Yeah, how's that supposed to work? That's exactly what the entrepreneurs are frustrated about. Or: I'm looking at you, Mrs. Minister. You're the hoteler now, I'm the guest. When the entrepreneur implements this regulation, I do not see your charming face, the face of the entrepreneur at all. Can I quote from this regulation? “The operator”, says the hotelier, “is sure to wear a mechanical protection device covering the mouth and nose when it comes to customer contact”. – How should tourism work? Tourism has something to do with joy of life, tourism has something to do with contact, and there's inside, as an entrepreneur you can only face the face mask. [[Abg. Obernoster: That's what you're saying!]] Let's go on: The first contact takes place at the reception. What's in there? “The operator has to ensure that” - - – So that’s something of interfering, Mr. Colleague, that’s such a subject! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] I would like to say, for all my colleagues, how subjective the ÖVP-Mandatar Obernosterer is. I would never have said this: I am a risk patient, a designated risk patient, because my immune system does not work 100%, and therefore I was apologised at some meetings and not present – and I am now accused by colleagues Obernosterer. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Incredible! Last class! Deceptively!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] – Only with the help of our colleagues in the House will we know how deep the level of individual ÖVP mandates is. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But now back to the first contact at the reception, Mrs. Minister; I read from the regulation: “In the entire area of the entrance and reception, a mechanical protection device covering the mouth and nose area must be worn.” – That is, the guest never comes into contact with the owner, with the owner, with the employees personally. How is tourism to work? - It can't work! So, shut up, second one, please: I build on yesterday and submit my concern to give the private owners of apartments their right and finally to compensate them – like the landlords in the context of holidays on the farm, to which I grant everything – via the hardening fund. I should like to make a motion for a resolution which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Minister, I've been begging for two months: Please make this equal treatment! - Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[16:48]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e39731	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Berlakovich is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e39756	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In the course of the Corona pandemic, a term appears again and again in the public debate, namely regionality. I see regionality as a very good thing to fight against boundless globalisation if one wants to do so – not as a counter-programme, but as a corrective to a barrierless globalisation, which has shown how vulnerable we are in Austria and in Europe when large parts of medical production, the production of medical products are outsourced. However, it is also a regional supply of local food, European food. It is therefore right that we take with us as a teaching to strengthen regionality, to ensure regional production in Europe in many strategically important areas. It was therefore right that German Chancellors Kurz, Minister Köstinger and the Federal Government had made a regionality summit to answer precisely these questions for Austria, but also in the European concert together. We must continue to work on this, and that is why I would like to comment today on the subject of regional policy. Two key common policies of the European Union are, on the one hand, the common agricultural policy and, on the other, regional policy, which is called cohesion and structural policy in the EU-speaking countries. This shows that almost one third of the EU budget for cohesion policy is budgeted, around EUR 360 billion in the current financial period from 2014 to 2020, with what is available for financial volumes in this area. The objective of this regional policy at European level is to: These funds are to be used to bring economicly weaker regions in the EU to the level of the stronger regions, so that there is equal social, economic and regional development. This is a profoundly solidarityal goal and a very solidarityal policy that has been very successful for decades – I think that this is very important in the present time. This regional policy runs through several funds, only to your memory, together they form the European Structural and Investment Funds. These include the European Regional Development Fund (EFRE), the European Social Fund and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, from which Austria also receives some funding. Austria has now been a member of the European Union for 25 years, and the Wifo has assessed how this regional support has worked, this regional policy in Austria. During this period, there has been investments of around 31 billion euros – 15 billion euros come from the European Union's pot, which must then be co-financed – and with this 31 billion euros has been invested enormously in less structural regions in Austria. This has led to an annual increase of 0.65 percent in economic growth and, according to Wifo, it has secured around 850 000 jobs since 1995. The Burgenland was the main beneficiary of this development. The Burgenland, 40 years on the Iron Curtain, with an extremely structurally weak economy, was able to benefit greatly thanks to Objective 1 region and successor governments. Some 5.2 billion euros have been invested and amazing 164,000 projects have been implemented over this period. If you look at this more precisely, you can see that there are a lot of agricultural projects among them, many rural development projects, as well as many regional projects and projects of the European Social Fund, in which companies train, qualify and similar. Since 1995, some 35 000 jobs have been created in the Burgenland. The Wifo says that this regional policy has tended to have contributed very much to the fact that the regions have adjusted in terms of economic performance: The Burgenland, but also the forest district, the Mühlviertel and other regions that were on the Iron Curtain or are more structurally weak, have benefited. It's not all reached yet, but the direction is right. There have also been projects in Vienna and all over Austria: For example, the technology and research centre Wiener Neustadt as well as the revival of the Vienna Stadtbahnbögen were financed from it, but also the cheese road Bregenzerwald and a Lyocell-Faserwerk in Heiligenkreuz in Burgenland. What you can't forget: The charm of this EU regional policy is that Austria, which as a net payer is paying more money to the European Union, recovers money through these policies and thus improves its net pay position. We are therefore very interested that the common agricultural policy is financed, that the regional funds are also financed, because we have control elements. There are still regions across Austria that need this economic development and support. I would like to mention one point, especially in the Corona crisis: In 2008, in the financial crisis, the European Structural Funds have contributed to the fact that public investment has not broken down in crisis-stricken states. If the Structural Funds had not been available, about 45 percent of public investment in countries such as Greece and other countries would have been broken down, according to the European Union's analysis, including us. They have contributed supportively, and you can draw a parallel at the moment: I see European regional policy as a supporting instrument to revitalize the economy in the Corona crisis, especially in structurally weak regions, which I think is very important. In addition: The Federal Government has recently established a municipal package with mayors, 1 billion euros for the Austrian cities and municipalities, which are also experiencing huge tax losses. In addition, investments in public transport and in climate change and environmental protection are being made, which means 1.5 billion euros will in turn be invested precisely in the regions. We know that the communities are large investors: They invest in kindergartens, in schools, in senior institutions that are supposed to bring exactly what we hope for, namely, more jobs and an economic recovery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e39816	Member of the European Parliament is speaking on behalf of Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e39837	Mr President. Minister! Mr Wöginger is not here right now, but still a short answer; he said that this was not a highlight of parliamentarianism. – One thing is also quite clear: What you deliver today is not a highlight of government work, it is quite clear to see here! [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] Gabriel Obernosterer was mentioned by Mr Matznetter in connection with the question of how to create a budget. – That’s not how it is, that’s really embarrassing! Now, at this item on the agenda, an entire Armada of ÖVP politicians is marching up, who will say: It's all great anyway, thank you and thank you and thank you! – Thank you for nothing, I can only tell you! Thank you for nothing in tourism, thank you for nothing from the entrepreneurs, because they only take up loans that make them difficult. [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] I just have a request to the OHT because that concerns me myself. [[Keeping a document in height]] Liability acceptances of 100 percent have always been promised. [[Federal Minister Köstinger: 80, 90 or 100 percent?]] There are a lot of entrepreneurs who don't read that that's what's going to happen: & Sign You change and pay back the loan within a year! So, what about the banks now? How far are we? That's what I'm telling you: Thank you for nothing. That's what I'm telling you: Thank you for nothing, because nothing really goes on. I understand the displeasure of entrepreneurs, I understand the displeasure of hoteliers. If you're talking about how important this is, I'll give you all the right. It is also important, as some of my previous speakers have said, to see for the first time the importance of tourism – and I am not talking about the sales products like McDonalds-Burger, but about the entire tourism that buys the agricultural products that are produced. Tourism has a very important role to play here. Thomas Reisenzahn from Prodinger and Partner predicts in a study that tourism in Austria is facing a sales loss of 7.5 billion euros this year. On the other hand, there is a need for action, since it also needs this nine-point plan, which Prodinger and Partner have created; I would like to pass it on to you. It's always about the same thing: We need to get fit for next year and not just this year to survive! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] So far, it is really a thank you for nothing, because there is currently no support for tourism, for the hotel industry – there is only liability and support; Liability takeovers for loans and support from taxes, but this must be paid back by entrepreneurs themselves. The unfortunate thing is, Mrs. Minister, that we will feel the consequences of tourism by 2024, you know, and especially the area of urban tourism is particularly in demand there. I'm missing the perspective. I miss such a perspective as you had before Covid for agriculture when it said: The agricultural funds will no longer come to this mass, but we may have a gap of 120 million euros with the funding from Brussels, but don't worry about the agricultural sector. – Where is the aid for tourism? There's nothing there! Thank you for nothing!, I can only say. I am really mad now because nothing goes on at all! Then there are PR programs like: 500 million euros for gastronomy. – You are now also Minister of Gastronomy: Do you know how this has been combined, you've calculated that before? – Sales tax reduction on non-alcoholic beverages was calculated on the basis of the revenue generated last year, so the savings are 200 million euros. However, it is absurd to assume that sales to non-alcoholic beverages will be as high as last year, making up 200 million VAT reductions! It is nothing similar to reality, just as this budget does not correspond to reality, and that makes us angry! It's not a businessman to go to the bank like this, it's not a businessman to have been driven away, too, but the government says: Well, we're going to make an amendment, they'll see what the budget looks like. I find that embarrassing, and I'm angry.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e39898	Mr Neßler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e39919	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! What do you think of first when you think about tourism? Which pictures are coming to your mind? – Ski resorts, hotel chains. [[Abg. Lightness: Ischgl!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] – Ski resort of Franz Hörl. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] What's this about? – Tourism is not limited to the ski resorts. Tourism is not only limited to hotels, there is much more to it: all the bakers on site, all the farmers and farmers, the cultural events, the night clubs that are currently also suffering very much, they all belong to the tourist value chain. [[Abg. Worm: We know that, Barbara!]] No other sector affects our country as much as tourism, no other industry is shaping our landscape as much as tourism; therefore, it is not only now, because it is in an emergency situation, so important, but we also need to focus more on tourism after the crisis. Yeah, that's what I'm giving to my previous speaker: Tourism is of great importance, but it must not only be a beiwagerl for the economy. We must not only reduce tourism to the tourism industry, but we must see that we come to a tourism culture. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] What is it like in tourism today? – For the calendar year 2020, we have up to 50 percent decreases in nights, while long-distance travel is more than 70 percent; in Tyrol alone, this is less than 20 million nights. [[Call the SPÖ: Bad!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] Many support measures for liquidity bottlenecks have been created, the extension of short-time work has been enabled, there are fixed-cost grants, but we must take into account that not only the coming summer season will be a major challenge, but also that we all know for a long time that the industry is partly very indebted – not because it is poor, but because of the pressure to grow, coupled with the competitive pressure and the concentration process. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Also, the development that foreign large investors buy homes, build uniform chalet villages, and thus raise the housing prices for the locals, drive to the immeasurable, and the risk of dumping prices – this will be tightened after the Corona crisis. This not only harms our local tourism, but also harms tourism in so far as it develops as a counter-policy to the population. But I believe that every crisis has a chance and I also see the opportunity for tourism. Let's take the chance to go in a different direction! The question we also need to ask ourselves is: Why do people come to us? – Because of the versatility of the cities, because of the landscape, because of the beauty of our nature. [[Abg. Hear: Lifts!]] What's the reason we're going on a trip? – Because we want to dive into other life realities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] This requires an intact nature, and that is why we need a tourism under which nature does not suffer, from which the population benefits and with which value is added. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm]] [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] We need to get away from the downward spiral, and for this we need, on the one hand, an honest discourse on tourism and on the other hand, genuine aid measures, economic measures – also as an opportunity for sustainable, social, quality tourism. One of the cornerstones is the extension of the liability framework and the renewal of the Directives of the EC Treaty, which is negotiated in the Government Convention. But what it needs for the industry is real justice, more fairness, especially in the support structure, so that it gets back on its feet and so it is not so dependent. I say: Let us take this opportunity for tourism! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e40066	Next speaker: Mr Klaus Köchl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e40090	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I direct me to Mr. Bundeskanzler Kurz; he will probably be at a working session with media staff somewhere, but I have to tell him now: If, as mayor of a small community in the Glantal, I present such a community budget to my parish councillors, they will chase me with a wet squat; I can tell you that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ms. Lunacek has recognized as a cultural state secretary that this is not her right business and has voluntarily resigned. Mr Kurz, take off Minister of Finance Blümel, he can't! I can only warn you: He can't do it in Vienna either. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That, I think, is certainly so, but there is a possibility: Gabriel Obernosterer – he is Kärntner, Chief of Finance here in the National Council – can do better, because on Kärntner there is just much more left. I'd just exchange them. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Köstinger.]] Now we come to the agricultural budget: Dear Georg Strasser, President of the Federal Farmers' Party and Minister of Agriculture, I know that it is possible that you are raising money in Brussels for our rural regions and for our farmers in Austria. It is also coming in, but then it is simply missing in the division here in the country. You make an agricultural industry strong, but with the small farmers and farmers, you are not so good. If I look at that in the Carinthian Glantal – that is exactly the region from which our minister comes – then you can see quite exactly that this is not the case. It's a small farmer's death. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Unfortunately, I don't have so much speaking time that I could say that better, but there's a small farmer's death with us. There have been 25 000 Carinthian farms, according to the last agricultural report, there were 15 000 in Carinthia, only 8 000 have come into the report – one has to imagine that! – because everyone else can't live on it at all. – This is your agricultural policy; Agricultural industry, that's what you're mastering. I think the worst part is: The farmers quit, others leased this – huge fields, huge machines – and then people with a lot of money – those are probably the friends of Mr. Bundeskanzler Kurz – and bought the small farms together. This is your agricultural policy and I can tell you a few things tomorrow.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e40175	Next speaker: Mr Franz Leonhard Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e40199	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to start with an issue which is a very important point for rural areas, namely the broadband initiative. The current crisis has shown that it is quite, very important that we have these infrastructure facilities, especially in rural areas. However, this has not yet been satisfactorily solved everywhere. For example, the country of Salzburg is now surveying users. It turns out that there are some reasonable transmission rates, but the Internet often does not work for hours. There would be a need for you to follow through. I assume that as far as the Internet billions are concerned – as only 15.8 million euros have so far gone to Salzburg – we can move something for our federal state. Even in my region, we have this phenomenon that the Internet often does not work for hours. But now to the second point, namely to agriculture: On a number of points, I agree with many of you, for example, when it is said that agriculture is providing enormously important services – food production, the design of the habitat – but I must firmly reject what my previous speaker said. Structural change is taking place, but in Austria it is much weaker than in other European and worldwide countries, and that is because we are making a good agricultural policy in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises. In Bavaria, which is about the same size as or even larger than Austria, there are half as many farms as in Austria. The agricultural policy with us has therefore worked quite positively. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I have mentioned earlier that in Austria we receive important benefits from farmers; only through the product price they are not paid, and therefore the public authorities must also help to cover the public services accordingly. This is shown in the budget. Something that we succeed in doing again and again and again in this budget is actually remarkable, namely bringing EUR 292 million in federal money to farmers; the rest comes from Brussels. That must be successful. – Thank you very much, Mrs Federal Minister. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Nevertheless, we have a lot to do for the future. We now have a crisis situation with the decline in sales and prices in milk and meat, and we have a disaster situation in the forestry sector. What we need are marketing initiatives. What we need is to strengthen those policies which are no longer regulated but which have incentives to do so. This government programme, which we are working on and which is also reflected in the budget, provides the basis for us to do the same. It is a call to all of you, ladies and gentlemen, Let us be sure that farmers are properly rewarded for their services! It is in the interest of every individual citizen in Austria that this money is budgeted and comes to the farmers – only then can they provide the services desired by society for all citizens in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e40256	The next speaker is Mr Alois Kainz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e40281	Madam President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! It is true that in agriculture we have a budget that has experienced an increase. However, it is not de facto when considering more precisely, because due to the new division of competence in the Federal Ministry Act, some areas have now been added. This is about as if you bought a car with a 15-litre tank, but at the same time the consumption increased by 2 litres: In the final effect, the amount is almost equal. Ladies and gentlemen from the ÖVP, the Ministry of Agriculture has been in your hand for over three decades. I therefore do not understand why you, as Chancellor of our Austrian agriculture, do not provide a larger tank. Especially in view of the Corona crisis, we have seen how important regionality is. I am convinced that 2020 has shown and taught us a lot. In my opinion, it is important to promote own production in Austria; we must invest in it. In recent decades the daily work of our farmers has become increasingly difficult. Despite technological progress, which certainly facilitates many efforts, many new obstacles have been added on the other hand. In addition to the regulatory requirements and various EU regulations, climate change has also changed greatly, forcing our agriculture to rethink. Generally speaking, I believe that the Corona crisis has shown us how important it is to have a safe supply. However, this safe supply also includes safe production, which we can only ensure if we counter the deaths of farmers. It is our task to see and acknowledge, as politicians, but also as consumers of these foods, the work and performance behind them. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, my hope and my wish for the next agricultural budget is definitely a bigger tank so that you can continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e40320	The next speaker is Mr Lukas Brandweiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e40344	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners at home in front of the screens! As a civil servant of the ÖVP, let me first say a great thank you to civil servants, especially for the use in recent weeks and months. They did great things. Many thanks also to the 3,000 who volunteered for extraordinary civil service. – Thank you for that! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] A total of 4,500 extraordinary civilian servants are currently available. The crisis has shown that civil service is dependent and that it is a strategic reserve in the health sector, but also in the care sector. I would also like to thank the Civil Service Service Agency at this point and the entire staff. They have, like many others, also had intensive weeks, and also thanked them, as well as the Austrian Red Cross, which supports the Civil Service Service Agency in the allocation to the federal states. – Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Unlike my previous speaker, Mrs. Minister, I am very glad that you are also a Minister of Civil Service. I am grateful for the prudent and rapid action. My thanks also apply to the entire Federal Government, at the head of our Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz. I am grateful that it has been done so well and quickly; certain discussions – some of which could be saved anyway – could not lead us if our federal government had not worked so well. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Our Austrian population can rely on civil service. I would like to mention a few more figures: 40 to 50 percent of the military officers opt for civil service. In 2019, a total of 14,600 young men were employed in 1,700 support organisations. This makes it possible to cover over 90 percent of the demand. That, I think, is a very good number. However, civil service is also an important door opener for the Office of Honor, which I would like to mention here in particular. Some 27 percent of young men remain volunteered in the institutions for at least a few years, and 6 percent remain active as major employees. Especially with us in the Waldviertel we have many volunteers, with whom I would also like to thank myself. The honorary office is almost the soul of our country, and if we do Strengthening civil service, we also strengthen the voluntary system in Austria – the 50 million euros are in any case well-invested money. I would like to thank you once again, Minister, for your good cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e40408	The next speaker is Mr Yannick Shetty. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e40432	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Bundesminister, I would like to ask you about a matter that is unfortunately missing in the budget. Maybe a question: Hand-to-heart, if you go into yourself like this, what do you think, how long can you get with 350 euros? I would also like to put the question to the honourable Members: What do you think, quite honestly, when you go into yourself, how long can you get 350 euros? – 350 euros is what civil servants in this country are awarded per month. Unfortunately, there is a majority in Austria – you know, we have a different position, but there is a majority – that wishes to maintain military service and civil service. It is now not the right time to hold this principle debate, but do you know what is not going on? – It is not possible that this group of young men is being exploited so shamelessly during Corona. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] At the end of March, the civil service for 1,500 civilians who had actually completed their civil service in March, which had already served for nine months in March, was extended by you for another three months. At the same time, more than 2,000 voluntary extraordinary civilian servants were called up in April, i.e. young men who volunteered. You will receive 1,700 euros per month, while the forced-renewed civilians who have already completed the nine months receive only 500 euros. That's a unconstitutional handling, you know, and I don't know why you don't want to change that. It would have made up 5,8 million euros in the budget. Mrs Minister, from the ivory tower of the Ministry it is easy to say: You all live at home, you don't need the money. – But that’s not the world! I can say that from personal experience. I am just at the end of the voluntary extraordinary civil service I did in the course of the Corona crisis, and I would like to give you a specific example: Last week I was sitting in the van, and next to me was a 25-year-old civil servant who had worked eight years of his life with a job that had lost massive income. And you tell him: Stay with the parents! – This is simply not possible, that is not heard, and it would therefore be urgently necessary to end this inequality treatment! I now come to the point on which we are making a request today. Today, at the end of May, there is no longer any exceptional emergency – on the contrary: The extended Zivis are no longer needed, there are too many civilian servants. I can also say it from personal experience: You take your time off, you beat the time dead, the Red Cross now even sends major employees in short work. To continue extending civil servants is insolent, so I put forward the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Be reasonable! Free these young men from another lost month of life! – And you, honourable Members, agree to this request! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[17:22]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e40553	The motion for a resolution was quickly read, but it has nevertheless been properly put in place and is therefore under negotiation. [[Mr Brandstätter and Mr Fierce. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office]] Mr Manfred Hofinger, you are next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e40584	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Mrs Bundesminister, I would like to congratulate you very warmly on this balanced, very good budget. I am glad that you have managed to achieve a good budget in the broadband sector, as this is an essential, important infrastructure in rural areas. I would like to thank all farmers at this point very much that they have always been there in the Corona crisis and finally guaranteed us self-sufficiency. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I would like to address the communities a little bit. A health crisis that has never been seen before has not passed by in rural areas, especially the finances of the communities. Our communities have played a very important role in recent weeks and months and have taken over many things in rural areas, in individual communities. They have always been the first contact for the population in the crisis, implemented measures jointly, but have also made sure that the infrastructure is maintained. They have made sure that kindergartens and public schools are kept running. They were also very important contacts for the companies, and they, together with other organisations, even organised purchases for the population – an outstanding role. I would like to thank all the local authorities very much for this. This is very important at this time of crisis, and it turns out again that the federal system, as we have in Austria, is the most important and best; this must be done I'm saying. A speaker from NEOS, colleague Eypeltauer, complained in the morning that it was still not possible for the small communities to be abolished. – That really does not correspond to my ideas. Especially the small communities are those that are very powerful and flexible. I can't follow him anyway. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The municipalities are the largest clients and, of course, the largest employers in the regions and important partners in the economy, and because they are financially highly dependent on the federal tax resources due to their income and municipal taxes, the municipalities are particularly hard hit. If the municipality's forecasts are true, the municipalities will have to take a 5 percent reduction in income in this year and 8% in the next year. The government has therefore decided to link a package of measures of EUR 1 billion to the municipalities – an investment package that is seeking the same. This is the largest investment in rural areas, which has ever existed, which creates regional value added and jobs or secures jobs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silvan]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is a strong sign and a commitment to rural areas by the government. In addition, EUR 300 million will be invested in public transport and another 200 million will be invested in water ecology. In total, it is EUR 1.5 billion, which the Federal Government is committed to addressing the crisis specifically in rural areas. As spokesperson of our group, I am very pleased that we can offer the rural area of this package, which will create new projects in the individual communities for the benefit of our citizens. – A warm thanks to all those who have contributed to this, especially to our federal government, which, with its committed actions, receives the impact of the rural area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e40653	Next speaker: Mr Michael Seemayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e40677	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Although we do not know exactly what figures this budget debate is based on, because the figures here clearly do not comply with the Constitution, I also want to lose a few words on civil service. A sincere thank you, on our part, to all the civil servants currently in service, especially those who provide an extraordinary civil service. They have done extraordinary things, and it is admirable how many have volunteered. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] However, of course, those 1,500 civil servants whose civil service was necessarily extended are also particularly grateful. They have not been able to choose this, and it is precisely they who have been heavily involved in their life planning. The disappointment, however, was very great when it was found that they did not receive the same compensation as those colleagues who volunteered for civil service. Mr Shetty has already referred to the sum of what is going on, and the request for the early withdrawal of civilians, because there is no longer an emergency, can only be supported on our part. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Shetty.]] The question I asked you in the course of the budget consultation, which would cost if you put the two groups the same thing if you treated them equally, you did not answer me. We've made it up to ourselves, colleague. Shetty has already said it: 5.8 million euros. Perhaps you have the opportunity to place this in the constitutional budget. Equality has recently been called for on the legal basis. I call on you to end this warm-hand pressure policy and to make the young people who have done such an extraordinary job financially equal. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Shetty.]] Of course, there will be a special challenge in the area of tourism. Especially concerns the outdoor pools, beach baths and lake entrances, which will of course be given a special priority this year, also because of the fact that we are supposed to go holiday in Austria – which is also happening. In particular, public access to the sea will certainly be challenging. If bathing sites are already overcrowded in normal summers, this will of course become much more difficult with distance rules, and it may be necessary to lock up bathing sites before it is overcrowded. In this situation, one of the last construction projects of the Austrian Federal Forest is rather sour; this is currently offered for rent on the homepage of the Austrian Federal Forest. It is a newly built building with two luxury apartments on a plot of the Federal Forest in Weyregg, with private lake access in the form of a bathing bay, which is offered at a luxury price of 2 600 euros per month. Public access to the sea has been used and installed for this purpose. In a statement from your ministry, it was noted that this access to the sea was restricted to the public due to tree failures. It was now renovated for the private use of the new tenants of the luxury apartments – obviously it was too expensive to clean it up for the population – and in return the berth was extended a little to the rear. The impression arises that exactly for those who can afford it, first row of foot-free access to the sea is created and the population is sent back to the second row. Ladies and gentlemen, it cannot and should not be the task of the Federal Forest to implement such construction projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e40744	Next speaker: Mr Karl Schmidhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e40768	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Seer at home in front of the screens! Yes, tourism is particularly affected by the Corona crisis. ==References== We must close our businesses from one day to the next, and of course we are required to get through this crisis well. 675 000 full-time jobs exist in tourism in Austria, 153 million guests; 15.3 percent of GDP, we generate revenue of 59.2 billion euros with tourism. What's the ministry doing? What does the Minister do to ensure that we get through this crisis and out of this crisis? – The following measures – a pity that Mr Schellhorn is not in the hall –: Economic package, short-time work, liabilities, fixed-cost subsidies and now the restart bonus for employees, which is particularly important in high-speed driving, because one does not have full-load, but gradually brings the employees, just as the guests come to the businesses. [[Abg. Eypeltauer: It is better that he is not there!]] Further relaxations are in view. I can also say that this will happen in a hospitable and secure way. It is now beginning to make corona test in five regions of Austria. With me at home, for example, in the Murau-Murtal holiday region, in Spielberg, the employees are tested to ensure more safety for our guests, but also for the employees. [[Abg. Loacker: What's in the Salzkammergut? What's in Vorarlberg?]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I can also say that, together with Austria, advertising and the national tourism organisations, there is an advertising package of 40 million euros in order to revive tourism. Dear Sepp Schellhorn, I'm not afraid of tourism. In the “Salzburger Nachrichten” one already writes of a noticeable positive mood, of a good booking situation et cetera. [[Keeping a copy of the above-mentioned newspaper]] Please, also look at what happens to the left and the right! The T plan for tourism is the long-term perspective – Sepp Schellhorn was there himself, he is one who has contributed to it and has confirmed it with his signature – with a solid budget, with a good programme through the crisis and with Plan T into the future. [[Keeping up to date a brochure entitled “Plan T – Master Plan for Tourism”]] [[Federal Minister Köstinger: He forgot!]] – Thank you for that, Mrs. Minister! Thank you! Holidays in Austria: We look forward to seeing each other in the regions!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e40843	Next speaker: Mr Erwin Anger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e40867	Madam President. Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Before I come to the subject, perhaps a word about Mr Obernosterer's call for tender: You accused colleagues Gerald Hauser of cowardice because he isolated himself in the corona crisis. [[Federal Minister Köstinger: Not cowardice!]] –I've got his patient's letter here, he's a high-risk patient due to his pre-disease. [[Federal Minister Köstinger: Eben! That's why we're protecting him!]] If you were to sue someone like that, I'd at least expect an excuse. We are against the masks, against these fabric fets, because they don't help anything, but Gerald has protected himself with a decent mask, with an FFP2 mask, because he belongs to a risk group. We always say that the risk group is to be protected, but are against these fabric masks. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now a few words on agriculture: Unfortunately, I do not have much time, but I have promised the EIA and, above all, to the farmers that we will still help them today. Of course we have a huge problem in agriculture: Price decline in all areas, burdens that the government has decided in front of us – the ÖVP – that is to say, the increase in unit values. Mr Klubobmann Wöginger said: Yes, they'll get a higher pension for that! So all farmers in Austria can thank Mr Klubobmann Wöginger. You may now be allowed to pay high social security contributions, then perhaps sometime get a higher pension. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Those were his words. We have a huge problem with the wood industry. However, there is still massive imports of wood from abroad in the area of wood industry and, above all, the wood industry. Madam Minister, you have already taken certain measures in the last few days and weeks. They have spoken of 200 000 solid meters, which are now to be further reduced by the wood industry. – This is not even a drop on the hot stone. Around 10 million feet per year are imported to Austria – you know – so we demand an immediate stop to foreign timber imports during the crisis, until precisely these calamities are cleaned up by us due to snowbreak and windbreak and the Austrian farmers get the price they deserve again, because the price is currently at the level of 1990. [[Abg. Strasser: That's stupid! That's not true!]] I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We are hopeful that you support the request, because the farmer's Bundesobmann and head of state representatives from Lower Austria, Mr Pernkopf, have also called for the same thing. Mrs. Minister, he says: “It takes action. The imports are to be stopped!” That’s why, gentlemen: Let's get together, let's decide something for the farmers! – Thank you for your consent. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] [[17:38]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e41056	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Next speaker: Member of the European Parliament Johannes Schmuckenschlager. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e41083	Estimated President! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever fears every cloud doesn't count as a farmer. . This old proverb is being brought to our attention this year in a particularly dramatic situation. The weather conditions we are currently experiencing, especially the drought caused by climate change, which has long been visible in agriculture, leads to dramatic situations. We have crop failures in many cultures. In some cultures, the rain has been able to save a lot, but we see in the long term that it takes infrastructure to ensure food security in Austria in order to secure production and thus ensure security of supply. We need these long-term prospects because it is necessary to maintain domestic production. Just the time of the Corona crisis has shown us: If unstable logistics and supply chains are no longer able to supply us, this ensures domestic agriculture, regional production. I believe that this is a very important value which, in addition to the purely economic value of agricultural and forestry production between supply and demand, is now particularly important. It is not an agricultural policy of interest which makes a purely client policy when it comes to supporting farmers, but it has a value as a whole. This merger of consumers and producers is very, very essential, and therefore we also need a corresponding designation of origin. It would be the wrong way if we were to delete the AMA marketing contributions now, because exactly the AMA seal gives local consumers the security to get Austrian products. If we want to create stability, look at the budget: The common agricultural policy of the European Union and the corresponding allocation we have in the budget give stability. The direct payments, the payments for rural development, the compensatory allowances will ultimately ensure farm income in the rural family farms. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We need to create planning security, and we thank God for the prospect of continuing this programme throughout Europe over the next two years. The government gives the farmers in Austria the security, which is also fully financed, even if not everything comes from Brussels. Thank you very much for that. [[Abg. Loacker: Thank the taxpayers who pay this, and not the minister!]] However, we also need a corresponding tax and economic programme to further strengthen farms, especially in the forestry sector. It is not going to be a problem to oppose the market, but it is a question of how we can improve our product. With fiscal policy apocalyptics from the Hypo Carinthia, we will not achieve anything. Farmers should know who they can rely on in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e41127	Next speaker: Mrs Petra Fürderwinkler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e41153	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Fathers. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, What are we talking about when we do not even know the amendment, when we do not know the figures? This acting really fits with that of the last weeks and months, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It would be a kind of respect for the House not only to distribute such a request one day before the vote. But perhaps this emergency plan will also come to mind that we have found that this budget is unconstitutional. If we turn to the tourism sector, we must be aware that 40 percent of the gastronomy and hotel businesses are fighting for survival due to the government's measures, due to the closures. I don't understand how to look away, how to fail an industry like this. Tourism is not at all in the budget. There are not even answers to how the objectives of action should be achieved. There are no figures in the budget, no plan, no figures, no covid-19 numbers, no planning security for companies. Is that being made new? Is that being rescheduled? - That's what I'm excited about. Hardening and fixed-cost support were praised as emergency aid, the largest state rescue operation since 1945. Do you talk to the entrepreneurs? – They are disappointed by the unfulfilled promises. They are enough to play with fear, they have enough of the awakening of false hopes, and they are tired of bureaucratic obstacles and actions that they take head-shaking notice, such as reducing the drinking tax or the sparkling tax. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The truth is: Hardening funds and fixed-cost subsidies are drops on the hot stone and no real help, far away from the reality of life; and support is just a delay. Industry experts were not included under guarantee and asked what is needed. Where the announced money is going is not clear either. In any case, it does not matter to entrepreneurs. The praise of the sectionobmann in the WKO Mario Pulker is also incomprehensible. The question is: Who does he represent? The impact of government tightness will be devastating, and other unemployed people are very likely to be if something is not done immediately. The only thing that helps now is to invest out of the crisis, to take money in order to secure existences, namely, existences of people who can't help them get into this situation. It will not be enough to consider Austria's advertising with 40 million euros or to provide for a small increase in the funds for the Austrian tourism bank. It will be exciting to see what form of Minister of Finance Blümel is now providing for further improvements in the budget. It is hoped that there will be no less left under the line for the companies. We don't watch it in vain. We make two further requests, two aid packages, one for the accommodation companies and hotels and one for the host industry. In these requests, we call on the Federal Government to send vouchers to each Austrian household, which can be redeemed at gastronomy and accommodation establishments by the end of December. This is an emergency measure, and we are now supporting our domestic businesses. Vienna and Mayor Ludwig can certainly be taken as an example, because this has already been done and it works. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jewel beater.]] I would ask all of you to agree to the requests in the committee to support this area at last. Finally, I would like to mention the freedom of travel as an aid to the tourism industry, namely the summer projects: As has been said, it will not be enough to put 40 million euros in advertising to apply for a holiday in Austria. Many people currently have no money to think about holidays at all. It would be better to secure businesses, preserve jobs, and thus preserve the power of consumption. The fact that you want to open the borders primarily only for Germany and Switzerland suggests that they want to keep the holidaymakers in the country. However, the good relations with our southern neighbours so far also demand to open the borders in the south, especially as Slovenia and Croatia have similar figures to Austria and Switzerland far higher numbers. What are some other reasons? Mrs. Minister, you said earlier that you wanted to promote specifically. I ask in the name of thousands: Who? I therefore call on you to respect your responsibility as Minister of Tourism and to take care of the people who belong to your area of responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e41235	Next speaker: Mr Gabriel Obernosterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e41260	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the TV screens! Please don't expect me to go into the opposition parties' word messages somehow now. [[Abg. Cake: Yes, exactly!]] Really not, really not! [[Call the SPÖ: Shame!]] The spectators at home will take their picture. But if I listen to that now, I have the feeling that inside, at least at the opposition parties, no one knows what this spring, on the 15th. March, actually, has happened, which crisis has broken in over us. Apparently no one knows what happened in Italy, what has now been in New York, what has been in France, and why there have been these measures at all, so that we are now where we are. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] The government with all ministers and shorts and Kogler at the top – it's their job, I know – does not need to envy anyone. Since mid and early March, day and night, we have been thinking about how we can lead our country as best we can through this crisis. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] How well we have come through the crisis so far, show all the numbers. I do not want to repeat that, it has been said over and over again. If we are now in tourism – Mrs. Federal Minister, you are also a Minister for Tourism: We are one of the first countries to be able to lock up completely now. Of course, there are certain regulations that we must comply with, but not because we are evil. Talk to the hoteliers outside! I'm also a hoteler, and I'm also talking to the kids at home. Shall I tell you what our children say at home? – One of our biggest fears is that no one knows what happened to Corona anymore, and everything goes up so that we may have to lock back in mid-August. We know what's going on then! [[Congratulations on Members of the ÖVP and Greens.]] Mrs. Bundesminister Köstinger, you are responsible and negotiating with the other ministries. They have brought us a regulation from the Ministry of Health, according to which we can lock up, by means of which it is ensured that there is a certain degree of protection for the staff and also a certain degree of protection for the guests. There we are very, very liberal. I've been looking at what's going on in other countries, and I'm just mentioning a few examples here. In certain countries, for example, you have to register when you go to dinner, announce your origin and address. In Bavaria, there is still today the 22 o'clock fixed hours – with us 23 o'clock. There are countries where buffets are banned – we allow them to be allowed under certain conditions. There are countries where all saunas are locked up – we are allowed to lock them up under certain conditions. There are countries in which the hotels are allowed to settle their beds only 50, 70 or 80 percent – we are allowed to prove all the rooms so that we can be economical. The distance control is everywhere in the world – with us it must be 1 meter, in other countries it must be 1.5 or even 2 meters. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Take a look at the international comparison! This crisis is not a purely Austrian problem but a global one. I really hope we're going to cross this year without having a setback. I tell you one thing, too, dear people from the opposition: If you're in the opposition, you have to criticize, that's all important and good, but everything is not okay. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Loacker and Mr Vogl.]] You too have a responsibility towards the Austrian population. Don't worry about people! The voters will decide, even in the surveys he tells whom he believes whether he believes you or this government. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister, for working for us like this!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e41337	Next speaker: Mr Franz Hörl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e41372	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in Parliament! I can only underline what Gabriel said, and I can already tell you one thing: ==References== March the world has collapsed for me too. The time after that was difficult. But it has become even more difficult than we saw that we actually have a very bad perspective. We will no longer recover the 31 million receipts we had in the previous year in Austria in these months, and the damage caused by this lockdown is 2 billion euros. I had a value-added study prepared in April with my new President of the Chamber in Tyrol, and we insisted that we will lose 2 billion euros in value creation in Tyrol alone by Christmas, in the worst case, 5 billion euros. Of course, with this value-added study, I went to politics and tried to change things. If I look at this today, I'm glad it won't be that bad. The German and Swiss borders are open, which was not foreseeable at the time. In addition, as we know, the farms can now go back into operation. The Gastro is open, the hotel is closed on the weekend, and also the lifts go back into operation on the weekend. That was not foreseeable at the time. This opening is only now, according to regulations, quite late, but nevertheless. The budget of the Austrian advertising has been increased by 40 million euros, the LTOs make advertising in all media. There is a host package – even if it is criticized by you, Sepp Schellhorn –; after all, the sparkling wine tax has been abolished, so we have been asking for a long time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] With the introduction of the new ceiling for flat-rate enterprises, an old demand will be met and tests by the Federal Minister for Tourism will be conducted by tourism staff. What worked? – I believe that the tax and health insurance subsidies have worked – I hear little – and in Tyrol, these 500 000 euros of grossly modo have worked well with many. Short work, the model for Europe: It has been changed 70 times, as has the hardening fund. This has, of course, been changed because we were behind it because the Economic and Economic Union, the Chamber of Commerce, the experts behind it, and because we have always gone to the government and said: We need to improve! – And the government – and I see this as a great advantage – has improved, and that’s why short-time work is a model today, as it can not be seen across Europe. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] ==References== The fixed cost grants can be applied for in May. Since this afternoon, all new, there's the restart bonus. With this, we try to get people out of the short work with creative ideas and then bring them back into the businesses. Then there is something else – and for that, Mrs. Federal Minister, I am particularly grateful to you – namely the project employee testing in the hotel industry. That won't be enough. I am convinced that we will have to build a test infrastructure across the country if we want to survive the next winter season with the virus quite safely so that we can work. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't need tax gifts, but I need a safe operation, and so I can sleep well, I have to be sure I can lock up my business and do business in the early days. This is the most important thing, you can still yell around for so long. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kucher and Mr Vogl]] You're just criticizing! You say it's all bad. It doesn't work like this, I'm giving Sepp Schellhorn right, but a lot of things about what's been done in these last two months, many people have been thinking very much. Just think of the hardness fund – because you constantly criticize us in the Chamber of Commerce: [[Abg. Cake:... bureaucracy!]] Hundreds of employees have spent the weekend for weekend, have completed two applications in phase one and phase, have seen that people come to their money. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] True, there were mistakes, there were transfers that we should have made differently, but there was also a rework. So please note that this government is ready to respond to proposals, repair them, make them better, and you can all cut off a disc from them!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e41465	Next speaker: Mr Nikolaus Principal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e41490	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Every euro of the agricultural budget is well invested in our rural families. The rural families, whether managed during acquisition, full-time or by- acquisition, do valuable work. Because of the corona pandemic, of course, our prices have come under pressure. The best aid for our rural families is when consumers buy local food. Trade chains should be our partners and not – as is obvious – offer foreign products at sludder prices, such as foreign butter by 99 cents in the shelf. Instead, there should be a regional counter, where local food is presented. This would benefit consumers, farmers, processing companies and the trade chains. Perhaps Director-General Drexel can take a look at how the Sutterluty in Vorarlberg does in the Corona crisis: There is a significant increase in regional sales with a regional bank. – This is a good example. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mrs Bundesminister, one word on the common agricultural policy: Many important decisions will be made in the coming weeks and months. It is about fighting the funds at European level and then looking at them within Austria, where we need action, the Green Report to set accents there, for example in the countryside, in mountain areas, in disadvantaged areas. It is only if the management is in some way profitable that the rural families can continue to manage Greenland in the future. – Thank you for your commitment to safeguarding local agriculture in the government programme! The last few weeks have shown the importance of broadband development. Think only of the opportunities and opportunities in the Home Office! As mayor of a small community, I would like to address the valuable work of the employees of the Wildbach and avalanche cultivation. The avalanche cultivation programme and, on the other hand, the action programme on flood-proof Austria are safeguarded by the more than 56 million euros in the budget compared with 2019. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the rural families and rural areas are in very good hands with this Federal Government, with Federal Minister Köstinger and Federal Chancellor Kurz!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e41550	Next speaker: Andreas Kühberger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e41585	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated Austrians! The Austrian rural family farms do great work in our country, which is really very, very proud. But we must also pay them the respect they deserve. Our farm families deserve to protect their property, but above all they deserve recognition from society and politics. We are currently facing major challenges in agriculture; we have heard it: Climate change, drought, drought, the birch beetle in the forest. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] On the other hand, society wants to have maximum benefits from our rural family farms in many areas, but unfortunately only low prices. Mr Ecker and Mr Schmiedlechner mentioned earlier: In the first days of this crisis, when there were hard purchases of ham, we have all seen in our home communities what it is like when the food shelves are empty d. The Federal Minister explained earlier: It was a rumor that made the round at the time. Food supply was never at risk, but we have seen what can happen if food supply does not work. That's why I'm very glad she works. And this budget for agriculture, which we are going to decide here, represents this very operation, ladies and gentlemen. It stands for security of supply, it stands for investment and planning security for our farmers. I would like to say thank you: Thank you, Mrs Federal Minister, and I also thank our Minister of Finance for this budget, because security of supply cannot be imported!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e41630	Next speaker: Mrs Rebecca Kirchbaumer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e41665	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! Yeah, so the acting of the SPÖ is really crazy. Mrs Förderwinkler said earlier that we are acting. It seems you haven't arrived that the corona crisis has not yet been solved by Weitem. We can be grateful to God for our actions that have been put in place, now to a so - called normality. Thank God we can do this, and thank God we can also lock up the accommodation companies on Friday, because tourism is the economic engine in Tyrol and throughout Austria. Everyone benefits indirectly or directly from tourism. Dear SPÖ, do not make yourself ridiculous more in the future than the party that is now and in the future familiar with entrepreneurs! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Do you know where you know yourself? – At the main table maybe, as a guest, but you have no idea how to feel as an entrepreneur, how to run a business. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] So with all appreciation: Schuster, stay with your performance, please! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] It is almost embarrassing now, as you do with all violence – with all violence! – try to somehow pull something on the hair and basically pull the government into the dirt. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] So you can't do something else at all. It's just more embarrassing, really embarrassing. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] One thing I'm telling you now is: To make yourself here and to say that we do not talk to the entrepreneurs – so please, you are nothing but employees in the public service and nowhere else, with all appreciation. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cuckoo.]] So that's incredible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] Dear Austrians, we thank you very much that you have implemented the measures we have taken in such a way that we are now able to return to normality. We hope that it will continue to be the same, and it is good that we will not be as bad as other countries. I would also like to thank our Federal Minister, who always gives us a hearing and is always on our side, whether this is in agriculture or tourism. In conclusion: Make a holiday in Austria, we are happy to welcome you as a guest! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e41759	I would like to make a real correction to Mrs Cornelia Eckerd's speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e41788	I would like to replicate my previous speaker, who is not listening to me with ignorance: We in SPÖ also have successful entrepreneurs among us, I am one myself, I proudly took over the parent company. [[Abg. Eßl: Talk time! Talk time!]] I don't let this evilness stand, that's wrong – we also have successful entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e41836	I have a second word on an actual correction, and I would like to point out that: This was, of course, immediately after that, therefore, one has recognized the connection, but in the case of an actual correction, the facts to which one refers must first be formulated. I would like to ask for this in the next case of the actual correction. Next speaker with an actual correction: Mr Reinhold Einwallner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e41868	I am actually correcting the remarks made by Mrs Kirchbaumer: The statement that SPÖ had no entrepreneurs in their ranks is not right is wrong. I am also a business owner and have been a company for many, many years. So that was an untrue statement from Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e41901	Thanks a lot. Now I have a word message to make for an actual correction. – Mrs Petra Oberrauner, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e41942	I don't know why you're laughing. I would like to correct: The SPÖ is very likely to have entrepreneurs in its ranks. At least I can say that for 17 years I have earned my euro in the free market itself, made numerous settlements and gained experience in numerous funds, but I also have to tell you that this incompetence, others, as if they were stupid to distract from itself, I just find ridiculous. [[Demonstratetive applause by ODP MPs]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e41982	I would like to point out once again that the Rules of Procedure provide that the claim to be corrected must first be presented and then that the corrective action is to be taken. The next speaker is Mrs Gertraud Salzmann; she is not speaking for an actual correction, but for a speech. - Please. [[Abg. Eßl: This belongs to the SPÖ that they have done!]] This is different in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e42014	Mrs. Minister! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The Tourism is not only an important economic factor in Austria, but also creates many jobs directly and indirectly in many sectors. These weeks in particular are difficult times, especially for the gastronomy and the hotel industry, because the shutdown, the lockdown, was very, very incisive for this industry, which is why the Federal Government has also taken very heartily essential measures. I would like to refer once again to the economic package of 500 million euros and would like to thank you very much, Mrs Bundesminister, for this. You not only look at our tourist establishments, you look at our regions and you really also have a good look at measures that are necessary. In the field of culture, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the gentle openings and easings, it is now possible to make a number of events. For tourism, culture is an important engine and an essential component, I refer to the Salzburg Festival. As Salzburger, I am particularly pleased that the Salzburger Festspiele can take place in a respected form and under great security arrangements, but nevertheless at the 100th anniversary in August. The rural area is an essential area. For us in the rural area, it is important to have numerous employment opportunities and sources of revenue through tourism. Close cooperation with local companies, with the local economy and, above all, with agriculture is taking place. The rural regions are also represented in numerous measures in the budget, I refer only to the expansion of the digital infrastructure, to the municipal package of EUR 1 billion, including the EUR 300 million for public transport. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: Whether it's the beautiful Salzburg country, whether it's the Carinthian lakes, whether it's the beautiful cities – you could count a lot – Austria has so much to offer. It is now also up to each of us to support our tourism companies. Let's go holiday in Austria! I'll do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e42053	Next speaker: Mrs Carina Reiter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e42078	Madam President. Minister of Finance! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear viewers! An important objective is to ensure the sustainable development of modern and dynamic rural regions. In my opinion, the following areas are particularly important: strengthening the protection of the population and habitats against natural hazards. The aim is, for example, to protect 3 000 housing projects per year at least from a century’s high tide, either by re-establishing or by improving existing flood protection. The promotion of broadband development with a view to a comprehensive expansion of ultra-fast broadband access is also essential. This is particularly important for areas which are not necessarily profitable in development. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] However, in order to strengthen our rural regions, we need above all to strengthen our diverse small-structured agriculture. Our rural family farms secure important foundations for quality of life in rural areas. Our agriculture is consistently system-relevant, our farmers provide us with healthy, high-quality and regional food on a daily basis. We are now seeing how important a functioning agriculture is. It must be worth something to us. The budget in the breakdown of agriculture, regions and tourism is a commitment to rural areas and to our Austrian agriculture – lived regionality also in the budget for our viable regions!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e42117	Next speaker: Mr Klaus Lindinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e42139	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Austrians! The Corona crisis has shown one thing very clearly, namely that agriculture is system-relevant. Our farmers ensure that we have high quality food and that the table is covered three times a day. To our farmers is 100 percent left, for which is a great thank you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we must also ask ourselves the question: What if we no longer have our rural family farms in Austria as we have them? – We would be dependent on many different external factors, the security of supply would be called into question, and we would certainly not have the quality we can show in our products today. That is why this budget in the field of agriculture, regions and tourism needs a rapid decision on the multiannual financial framework, it also needs sufficient financial resources in the common agricultural policy, especially in the second pillar, and it needs framework conditions for our farmers to be able to make a positive contribution. In Austria, 22 percent of the farm farms are managed by young business leaders; in this respect, we are European champions across the EU. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this development must continue, and we must therefore encourage modernisation, innovation and entrepreneurship, for example through programmes such as the young farmers' grant or investment support. In this way we ensure sustainable agriculture in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e42175	Next speaker: Mrs Irene Neumann-Hartberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e42199	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Minister! High house! In the government programme, the Federal Government is very clearly committed to the domestic agriculture and forestry, to the preservation of rural family farms and also to improving the labelling of foodstuffs. The mandatory designation of origin of processed foods represents a long-term, central requirement of the Arge farmers, the Chambers of Agriculture and the Federal Farmers' Association. We have been working for many years on raising awareness and raising awareness among consumers for the control of Austrian food on the shelf. In return, a simple and clearly recognizable designation of origin needs to be used. To the Members of the Liberal Group, because there is also a request from you: Yes, I agree with you that we need the mandatory designation of origin for processed food. I'm just wondering: Why have you not implemented this in your years as a government party and with responsibility in your place of business? [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Vogl]] But I am convinced that we will succeed now. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Consumers have a right to easily identify the origin of a product they want to buy. We already want to create this knowledge with school children through teaching content in the field of food competence and consumer education. The crisis has made clear to the population that it is our farmers who produce food 365 days a year. The appreciation for regional and seasonal products has increased dramatically. Take advantage of this new understanding! Let's all help! Let's be an example of the grip on the shelf! Let's prefer Austrian products! It doesn't have to be strawberries in January or a steak flying around half the globe. [[Abg. Loacker: Ask the ÖVP what to buy!]] At this point, Mrs Minister, I would like to thank you for the recent regionality summit, together with the request and the demand to change the public procurement to 100 per cent regionally and seasonally, also in the sense of climate neutrality, not only by 2025, but as far as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e42248	Next speaker: Mr Christoph Stark. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e42272	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! After the afternoon parliamentary debate, I would like to return the discussion a little bit to a consideration which should be overlooked in the light of this debate: Why has mankind survived and persists since its existence? – Because we are able to always learn to do so in these difficult times. I am not just saying this because our Minister of Education is sitting in the hall, but because it is simply a fact that we have learned a lot in this crisis too. With all the criticisms that are also justified, the government, all the acting persons, the employees of one cannot agree, namely that we have learned and had to learn about it day after day. At this point I would like to express my thanks to all those who have worked in the Ministries, who have prepared us for it every day – but this cannot be prohibited, even if Mr Schellhorn does not always fit in such a way that we thank our ministers. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] The fact that this budget is also a result of a learning process is evidenced by the fact that there are groups currently enjoying a much higher recognition in society than before the crisis: the health professionals, the sellers and, above all, our agriculture, of which we now know what we have in its regionality – and this is illustrated in the budget. We have learned that we need and will need broadband more than ever before – and this development is also shown in this budget. I am very glad that there is in addition the municipal financing package, this municipal investment package, which will allow us communities that play in the context of this, to give broadband more focus in order to improve this area as well. Finally, we also know what we have in civil servants – we have learned that there must be a higher degree of appreciation, and we know Also that in this area a little of the hat burns; the coming vintages and the demography contribute to it. Mrs Minister, I hope that this budget will be the best basis for continuing this learning process for the re-start of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e42324	I now have a word for an actual correction: Mr Andreas Kollross. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e42351	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. In his speech – which has already been done by others all day today and also at this item on the agenda – Mr Stark claimed that he is pleased that there is a community funding package. I'm actually correcting: There is no municipal financing package. What there is is one of 80 press conferences and an announcement, and otherwise there is nothing to date as often as nothing. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Vogl]] [[In the case of the SPÖ, the members of the FPÖ and the Agg. Loacker.]] To date, the community financing package has not yet experienced anything except an announcement, until now there is no rendezvous with reality.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e42404	Mr Josef Hechenberger has now been reported on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e42425	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister of Education! But very special: Mrs. Minister for Agriculture! In the first place, I can say thank you for your commitment, for your work and for this budget, which is being presented, for many thousands of farmers in Austria, because in and for themselves, we invest around 3 percent of the budget in agriculture. [[Intervening calls and cheerfulness at the SPÖ]] [[Call the SPÖ: Unbelievable!]] I think one thing's clear: With this 3 percent, the Austrian peasantry guarantees 100 percent of the food supply for the Austrian population, guarantees 100 percent of the well-kept cultural landscape as the basis for the recreation area, as a basis for tourism, and with this 3 percent the Austrian farmers guarantee that necessary investments in the region are made and thus jobs are secured in the region; for one thing is clear: Farm families do not carry the money abroad, they invest every euro they have, in Austria, in the regional economy and thus secure jobs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Finally, a request from the outside to the opposition: Let us not think every day about how we put more pressure on agriculture, even more narrowly, so that we can continue to have healthy, good and high-quality food in the future! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e42476	Next speaker: Mr Joachim Schnabel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e42500	Madam President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home! There was an actual correction in which I do not know what was corrected! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Heinisch-Hosek and Mr Kollross.]] Mr Kollross said that we did not set up a municipal package here. It's amusing how you comment on Twitter anyway: When we presented this on Monday, our Federal Chancellor and also representatives of the Municipal and Municipal Federation, you commented on Twitter: That's all sound and smoke! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kollross.]] – If I turn this over to your community, you will receive about 350 000 euros from this municipal financing package. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] – That's sound and smoke?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] You said three weeks ago, you don't know how to finance the firearms car – with 350 000 euros you can do quite a lot in your community. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kollross and Mr Silvan.]] Invest in security, you will have done something sustainable! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Very short to the regions: Everyone who thinks of regions has a different picture and has the rural area in mind above all. 50 percent of our people in Austria live in rural areas, and this crisis has shown one thing: that we also need a great infrastructure in rural areas – and the infrastructure of the future, that is the broadband network. I personally define this about the fiber optics expansion. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] If our predecessor generations managed to build drinking water pipelines, set up the power supply, implement the wastewater sewerage, then that would probably be the same challenges as today. The task of my generation or of all of us is to create this basic infrastructure of the future. This is also a huge challenge in our federal state. We've made the master plans to do this. In my region, twelve communities are now being expanded by the Sbidi – with your support, Mrs. Minister. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] We are on the right track, we need to implement this basic infrastructure for the future in order to be adequately equipped. We need a digital infrastructure to support rural areas in a digital way, because the 4.5 million people living in rural areas also need the digital future infrastructure.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e42585	Next speaker: Mrs Bettina Zopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e42610	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners at home in front of the screens! I would like to begin with a quote from my colleague Agnes Totter: It has been said a lot, but not yet by everyone. We cannot say enough about our livelihood, agriculture. My claim was always to contribute something positive to the development of rural areas in Austria – with the principle: Eco-social is what creates work, supports the economy and protects the environment. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] For this, no one has as good a condition as we in Austria. Let me take an example: With a fair budget in the field of agriculture, We combine the best of agriculture and tourism with the tourism form of holidays on the farm. The use of the cultural landscape is conflict-free with the production order of agriculture. We have managed to make agriculture work in a healthy circular economy with the cultural landscape. The farmers, tourism and the economy benefit from this. But now agriculture is double with the Corona crisis: the tourism industry with its small and medium-sized enterprises as well as agriculture, which as a food supplier is partly dependent on tourism. With a balanced budget, we can continue to secure the agriculture sector, on the one hand, and on the other hand make it more innovative, professional and competitive. We make available EUR 2.76 billion for this. Finally, however, I would like to point out that each of us has the opportunity to influence the economic reconstruction in Austria in tourism and agriculture. Purchases regional products, makes holidays in Austria! Let's get together and we'll all be better together!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e42655	Next speaker: Mr Michel Reimon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e42676	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! That was really a horrible scene now, I think, you can't leave it that way. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Loacker.]] A member of the ÖVP comes out and excites over the SPÖ, how bad it would not be and what the economy would not understand, because everyone in the public Work service – as if it were something bad; and then three SPÖlers come out to actual corrections and say: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Public service is nothing to generate, public service is great! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call the Greens:Yes!]] We may need to work in the Republic to make sure that it gets a positive image again. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] In this crisis, we need a functioning state, a functioning public service – and that works, and we will work for it. And if it doesn't say anything about you, the Greens say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e42729	The next item is the speech by Mr Markus Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e42750	At the end of the day, perhaps a little bit more, so that you can understand what we are discussing and why the opposition is arousing. I think this turquoise number voodoo is just for despair. Mrs Minister, you say that EUR 200 million for water ecological measures, which is so great, 540 million euros will be invested in the regions; we create 8,000 jobs in the regions. - Great! What you're not saying is that the programme is set up for eight years. If you calculate this, then a monthly earnings – if you really want to create these jobs and if you just talk about improving water ecology – of 680 euros. [[Federal Minister Köstinger: He's got it!]] Madam Minister, in contrast to what you want to do in this country, Ryanair is really a super employer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] I think that is what makes people so desperate: this policy of announcement and what comes to people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have 40 million euros less in the field of water ecology next year or this year. One of my previous speakers said that the area of settlement water management is so important – minus 31.5 million euros. The most important thing is – and I believe that is the reason why farmers are almost desperate: There's the Green Report, it looks like that. [[Keeping that report up-to-date]] There you can read how bad it is about parts of agriculture – not every part, but about many parts of agriculture. For farmers to be able to read this, you spend 4.5 million euros to produce the report, and the farming chambers get an additional 7.5 million euros. – This is the problem [[Federal Minister Köstinger: What do the Chambers of Workers get?]] There is a lot of money there, but some of it remains in the system and does not come to the farmers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Finally: The Federal Minister - - – I do not know what populism is. [[Abg. Straster: Populism is that!]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Populism, I believe, is to present figures that do not comply with the Constitution. [[Abg. Strasser:... differently!]] I think that's populism. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Populism is to say to the people: You get help, fast and unbureaucratic, but it doesn't matter. This is populist, I understand it by populism. To the Minister for Finance: I think it's a combination of not being able and not wanting. He can prove that he is able to do so today until 7 p.m. by presenting a budget in accordance with the Constitution. He has already proved that he does not want to do so, because the report on participation control deals with the turnover of companies belonging to the State by 24 billion euros, 110 000 employees. [[Keeping that report up-to-date]] Do you know when he came? – On the day of the budget consultations, on 7 November. May. And do you know when he's finished? – March 2020. That means not wanting, and that is exactly the problem of the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e42876	I am no longer in favour of the breakdown of agriculture, regions and tourism, so I will now end the debate on this subject. [[Abg. Loacker: Not all have yet...!]] Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. [[18:30:33]] UG 30: Education UG 31: Science and research
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e42915	We come to subheadings 30, education, as well as 31 science and research, on which the debates are carried out under one. I very much welcome Mr Fässmann to Parliament. First of all, Mrs Sonja Hammerschmid is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e42942	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of this fake budget, which we are discussing here today, I have also taken a different approach to this discussion. [[Put a bottle of wine on the speaker's console]] [[Abg. Vogl: You can't...!]] [[Cheerfulness of the speaker and of the SPÖ delegates.]] Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In order to illustrate the government's priorities for the corona aid measures, I brought this bottle of wine. In this bottle of wine there is more corona promotion than in the additional measures for each individual student and each student in view of the situation we are now in. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] EUR 25 million for the abolition of sparkling wine tax: Each bottle of wine is supported with 1 euro. I'd like that for our children, too, because what's going on? – Support measures aimed at helping pupils to pick up home schooling, distance learning deficits have not been budgeted – no longer in the educational budget. 1 Euro for this bottle of wine, 0 Euro for our children! It should be noted that the abolition of sparkling wine tax has social and macroeconomic benefits. I do not think that we need to discuss the social benefits of education. That's where we agree. So, Minister Fässmann, back to the figures: How many studies do we need to present to the scientific community in order to make it clear to you how serious the situation is now, and to really start looking at it, and to decide on an additional package of measures that will help our children? I'm starting with the studies: There are two studies by your former colleagues from the University of Vienna, which clearly show how big the educational crisis will be if there is not a near focus on equal opportunities and measures are put in place. Susanne Schwab from the Centre for Teacher Education has shown that over 60 percent of teachers and 64 percent of students are heavily burdened due to the situation. The team around Christiane Spiel – she was with you at the press conference – has shown that 16 percent of students had no devices available for digital learning and 21 percent had no support for learning – 240 000 students were without support. “Education in figures” has shown that education inheritance is still given and has been substantially intensified by Corona. The IHS only published a study a few days ago that shows that 12 percent of students could not be reached or only badly reached. 76 percent of teachers are really concerned about the level of competence of disadvantaged students. – The authors are right when they say that politics must take it seriously and face this challenge. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Künsberg Sarre.]] Today, at 16.08 a.m., the next study came from the Center for Social Innovation: 35 per cent of pupils between 7 and 19 and 45 per cent of the group of single parents were really overwhelmed. How many numbers do we have to put on the table? – The evidence is there, the data are clear, action is needed! The budget does not in any way reflect what would contribute to dealing with the situation. It is a truly forward-looking budget, so today I put forward the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] We see that the school system has now begun, it is a new dynamic inside, and we should use this dynamic to define together educational goals and also the way there. That's why I'm asking for it. Thank you. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Künsberg Sarre.]] [[18:36]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e43173	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Rudolf Taschner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e43197	Madam President. High house! Leave In view of the budget now introduced, you are designing a panorama of education, science and research. The Federal Government has set itself ambitious goals. We have a total budget of around EUR 14.3 billion, which is an increase in education of around EUR 420 million and an increase in research of around EUR 250 million. – These are numbers that can be seen. I can offer you a list of the priorities: Firstly, the further strengthening of the support of educational staff, which works very well, in every respect. Secondly, digitization and the continuation of digitalisation. Thirdly, the development of schools. Fourth, the emphasis in teaching with Matura and also in the German funding classes. Fifth, priority in elementary education and also in day care. Sixteenths: This is the highest university budget in the history of the Second Republic. Seventeenths, a focus in the Mint area and in the clinical field. Eighth: It is planned to strengthen technical colleges, including budgetary ones. Nineteenths: The IST, the Institute of Science and Technology Austria, a showcase institute, is further supported. Tenths: Research funding will be extended. The list is getting even longer, that is only a part of the project, and my follow-up speakers will discuss it further and consider it in detail. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I allow myself to add another footnote to this panorama: This crisis, this economic crisis, will only be dealt with if we create more production, create more productivity. However, productivity will only be increased if sustainable and high-quality needs are created, which we can then still – and all this presupposes that one is formed. There are three points that I would like to take out: first, energy and environment; second, in connection with the demographic situation, which is unique in the history of humanity, with so many old people compared to so few young people – care and medical care; and third, mobility. – All these are points that require education and training: technical training, in the medical field, especially in digitisation; Education in the area called so beautiful humanities in English. That is why we need schools and universities that demand and promote, fast, and good, excellent quality. If we don't do that now, the music will play somewhere else, in America and the Far East, and we'll be depended on. We need schools that promote and demand. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, the crisis is sometimes compared to the 2008/2009 crisis. This may not be quite right, some of them liken them to 1929, but I would like to compare them to the founding period crisis in 1873. There are very interesting comparisons and it was great that, from 1890 onwards, a new period of founding has developed and Austria, and especially Vienna, has become the spiritual center of the world. Why did this work out? – I want to tell you in an anecdote: Go walk a woman – a Jewish mom – in 1890 with her two children. She meets a man and he asks her: The two boys, how old are they? And the woman says: The doctor is six and the lawyer is four. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP and the Abg. Scherak.]] You see that ambition was there; the ambition to have success by learning by understanding by acquiring knowledge. This is the way to success – and that was generally the way that led to this productivity. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, from Glöckel to Fred Sinowatz, was there the idea of knowing, learning and understanding this ambition among the entire population. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] The demand for schools to promote and demand, however, is now only available in trace elements with you. It's a huge pity, but it's here with us. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Go, please, Mr. Tashner! You think wrong, you say something wrong!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silvan.]] We will bring up this school system so that we can support and demand the children and bring them up to the point that this will also lead to the crisis. This is our goal in the long term, the Minister is guaranteed for this, and also for all those who work as teachers in school, as well as for all those who support this school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e43254	Next speaker: Mr Hermann Brügl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e43275	Madam President. [[Abg. Lightness: President in!]] Dear Federal Minister! High house! I should like to thank all the students who have to write Matura this week and thank them and their parents and teachers for working really bravely and well in spite of the adverse circumstances in recent months. Budgetary education: The budget education we now have shows an increase of 2.5 percent compared to the preliminary success in 2019. EUR 9.3 billion can be found in expenditure in the financing budget. The crisis will cost us at least 28 million euros, and the unestimated staff costs will be added. However, the Corona crisis has also made many weaknesses visible in the field of education. This begins with the press conferences, which have very often caused more confusion than they have actually brought solutions. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: That's right!]] In addition, the situation was heightened by the fact that many students could not be reached in the early phase of Distancelearning, Mr. Federal Minister, you know – Mrs. Hammerschmid, I think, said that there were 21 percent – or that the necessary hardware that needed the necessary software was missing. There the school book publishing started – that's always too short, it's not said – and really did great things in this situation. They have not only provided the pupils and teachers with e-learning materials, they are also at their side by telephone with advice and action. Schoolbooks theme: I know, Mr Federal Minister, that this is not really your area, because it concerns the family compensation fund, but I ask you to assume this responsibility, because as it is present, there is a huge budget hole of about 50 million euros, which is why more and more parents have to resort to their own wallet in order to pay their children's schoolbooks. Again, back to the closed schools: The schools on the ground, the directors and teachers, the parents and also the students have shown a lot of self-initiative in the crisis, a lot of commitment. They were flexible, they were very, very creative, although they were very often left alone. Fritz Enzenhofer, former President of the National School Council from Upper Austria and Bundesobmann from the Christian State Teachers' Associations, said two days ago in an interview: “The principle that everything is centrally controlled by the Ministry at Vienna Minorities Square has proved to be not well in the crisis.” That was always our access. That was also the reason why we called for the central matura to be suspended for this year and to carry it out according to the Matura scheme, because the schools on the ground know exactly what material they have gone through with their students because they simply know the situation better on the ground. That the oral matura has been cancelled, Mr. Federal Minister, is not understandable to us, no more than the change in the emergency, because if we keep that – and you said you were thinking about it – that would be the ruin for our Matura. It turned out yesterday as a student a blank paper without writing anything as a matura because they knew they could no longer be negative. Finally, I should like to make a motion for a resolution because it is also a matter for us that our children still have to wear on the way to school, in breaks and so on. We want this masquerade pressure to be ended in our schools and our children can breathe freely again. In this sense, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] To conclude, Mr President, with the words of Martin Sprenger, the expert, Mr Kurz, who has taken out of his committee of experts, I would like to say: We are on the way with snow chains on dry road. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Künsberg Sarre.]] [[18:46]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e43413	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Nights Speaker: Mrs Sibylle Hamann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e43437	Madam President! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We've been sitting here for a while now and we're gonna be sitting here even longer. You can then sometimes become a little more personal and that's why I do it now: I've been living next to a pretty big construction site for two years and there you can quite well watch what's going on there: First this huge pit, which is lifted, then slowly the carriers are pulled up, the floors, the glasses are used and one sees: There's something growing. There is something important, in the case of concrete, that is the school that my son will hopefully visit from autumn, from September onwards, and which will be a place where he will spend extremely much time, most of his day, in which he will probably experience things that will forever shape him and which he will remember for quite a long time. There is a school, his school, and if we have learned something from this corona period, then this is an important teaching that school and education can only be very difficult in isolation – at home in front of the screen, with zoom – and that education and school almost always need a building, a house. I would therefore like to talk about the 2.41 billion euros we will invest in our school development programme over the next ten years. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Two years later started!]] These are real numbers and that is real money, which is really being installed, in new construction, in expansion, in digital equipment and renovation. [[New call for tender Heinisch-Hosek]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I'm not an architect, but I know how important a building is for the atmosphere and for the group dynamics that takes place inside, and also for learning and what comes out in the end. If I think of it this way, it is even the turning and fishing point of our entire green thinking, if you want to see it in this way: that the individual is always in a relationship with the others and that these others are in a relationship with the environment that surrounds them, that these things are simply connected and inseparable, and that one will not be happy without the other. You can show this to such a school building very well. Example: Light and air, one learns in physics in school. At the same time, however, we have seen at Corona how important this is very physically: Open windows, let in fresh air, this is epidemiologically important, at the same time vital and also important for learning in the transferred sense. For a school building, it is also meant to open outside – the opening of the school to the public space and to the community, to the place where it stands. Example temperature: The fact that the summers are getting hotter and hotter is what the children and the young people know, so they have been on the street for a year. We are damned to them once again that at least in schools we offer them optimum conditions that are built according to climate protection standards, so that they have it as cool and as pleasant as possible. Third example space: We know that schools of the 19th century. Often built in the 20th century following the model of barracks, where cohorts of 30 children were always gathered behind a door. This, of course, is not fair to children, nor is it fair to teachers or teachers. We know for a long time that this is much better, that schools need alternate spaces for small and larger groups, that they need quiet retreat rooms, that you need space for individual learning in exchange with space for larger events and Plena. This will have to be done by the schools we're building. This also affects families, because we want to plan most of these schools as schools of the whole day, as places where teachers and children like to spend the whole day caring for friendships where they eat where they also spend their free time. There you can see that this also has a further effect on the families. Summary: 2.41 billion euros – I hardly think of anything that could have been better invested in money, and I am delighted about it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e43486	Next speaker: Mrs Martina Künsberg Sarre. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e43507	Madam President. Minister Fässmann! High house! “It costs what it wants” was the title under which the German Chancellor and the Vice-Cancellor have made the corona aid payments. In the education sector, we have actually gained the impression that this statement does not refer to the expenditure of the Republic, but to the collated and consequental damage that the government takes into account – dependent students from socially disadvantaged families, demanded parents in home schooling and home office, excessive and non-age-based hygiene measures, even in public schools, oversized kindergarten groups, lack of holiday support, no funding plan for autumn and an educational shear that is increasingly separate. ‘It costs what it wants’: The government does not know a morning or is obviously prepared to invest properly in the future of our children. We do not see this in the 2020 budget, it does not contain any educational investment to deal with the corona crisis. It does not even show approaches to be implemented in the government programme. So there is nothing from elementary education, and not from schools either. The urgently-needed bonus for the focus schools, which in any case only made it into the government programme as a modest pilot project with 100 schools, has not been mentioned by any euro in the budget 2020 and has continued to be pushed to the long bank. This is actually a green prestige project, I think, and I would have expected to hear a cry from the greens or more. Language support has been introduced as a new fourth objective in the education budget, new projects or budgets to achieve these objectives, but is in vain. A language test has been carried out in kindergartens for more than ten years in order to raise the need for language support, but there is no right to actual funding. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The corona pandemic has not triggered a crisis in education, the corona pandemic has aggravated the educational crisis. You, Mr Federal Minister, have a major responsibility for this together with the Minister of Finance. The corona crisis shows the strengths, but also the weaknesses of our education system. Yes, many have already talked about it today, and there is also a chance in every crisis. Just talking about that there's a chance is a little bit. A crisis or opportunity will only benefit if you develop from it a vision of how to work in the future in the area where you like and where you especially want to get better. This vision, I believe, must be wider and stronger than the possibilities in your Ministry of Education. I believe that the Federal Chancellor is required to work together with the heads of state to draw up a plan. He would have the opportunity to put in place a completely new education system capable of mastering his life after school, raising interests and promoting talents. But what does the Federal Government do? - She chooses a completely different way. They are irrigated in the small small part of the corona-hygiene measures. I wonder if you have already looked at your actions to be implemented in schools from the eyes of the children. In fact, if you in schools, after two low-moving homeschooling months, cancel your sports lessons, while at the same time you start training the football Bundesliga, you obviously did not fully understand the needs of children. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] It's a little bit like the motto: Man cover yes, wings lift no. This is obviously the case, so it is decided. If people's school children are not allowed to play with their friends during the breaks or only with masks in the restroom, while the same children can drink an apple juice without a mask in a guest house and eat anything together, then somehow that doesn't fit in. This logic is not quite clear to me and many others, I believe. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] If for holiday care, it is not even clear what activities should be offered at all one month before holiday start, and the funding is not yet clear – who will take care of this additional care – then I am not surprised that the ÖVP as a traditional family party does not put any pressure on it, but I would have expected the Greens to give me a bigger call to support working mothers and fathers. [[Congratulations on Members of the NEOS.]] If you might say it's going well at the schools and the kids are doing all this well with: Yeah, of course the kids do. Children are cooperative and children have confidence. Children especially have great confidence in us adults and rely on us to make good and meaningful decisions for adults for them. We need to make good decisions that are adequate for old age and enforceable. I would really ask you to think again about this masculine duty and also whether it makes sense to handle it so strictly in school, while in many other areas this is not the case. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I'm looking for you very strongly, give yourself a back, talk to the Federal Chancellor, since you're really doing a big throw and not always just waiting for everything to be good again in the autumn and everything is beautiful and we're coming back to the same place we were at! Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[18:58]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e43665	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly implemented, and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Dr.in Maria Theresia Niss. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e43689	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Mrs Künsberg, you can do anything wrong. If there are no hygiene measures, I can already read the headline: Education Minister spreads chaos! – I think the Minister himself said that we should apply the rules with a sense of mind. [[Mr Heinisch-Hosek and Mr Kucher.]] Home mind, self-responsibility: This is the motto of the ÖVP and so far we have done quite well with it. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Zorba.]] Because of the Corona crisis, we were almost forced into digitalization a little bit. I see this very positively. I also believe that the teachers, the parents, the students have mastered this crisis with the help of the Ministry through their approach very, very well – for this I thank everyone very much. But I am convinced that, of course, we need to continue this path now. Our task will now be to help schools actually use digital teaching for the benefit of the students. Of course, teacher training and further education – that will be quite crucial – we need to make them digire, so to speak, but I also believe that we can only use a digital learning platform in every school. We have many very good, whether it's Schoolfox, MS Teams, Google Classroom, Jamadu, you name it!, but I think it's important: a platform per school – so we help the parents, the students, but also the teachers who can then also contact their colleagues when they need help. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] If we manage to take this momentum of digitization and to use it in regular teaching, then, I believe, we have achieved much for the benefit of the students. In this context, the school development plan is also pleasing. Mrs Hammerschmid, you said we were not investing in the children. It is almost 2.4 billion euros that we invest in this area in the children. But not only education requires digitization, digitalization also needs education. In this context, of course, I am pleased that funding is also available. the universities, especially in the Mint area, which have been extended to technical colleges. I believe that these are all essential things, because the economy is really looking for skilled workers, and these professionals will also play a central role in the reconstruction of the Corona crisis. In this context, I am looking forward to working together with the Minister for Education, Science and Research for a strong location, and together we will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e43761	Mrs Mag.a Andrea Kuntzl spoke. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e43786	Ladies and gentlemen! I have been allowed to work here in this House for a few years now, but I have not yet experienced anything like this budget debate, and I do not want to experience anything like that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] We are now discussing – a week ago we discussed in the Committee on Budgetary Control, now we are discussing a week in plenary session – a budget that we heard many weeks ago that the Minister of Finance had broken this budget. On this basis, we are discussing, and he has refused to bring this budget as close as possible to the changes to the reality. I can't do that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Today it turns out: This budget is not only outdated, not up-to-date, so that we do not know on what basis we are discussing, but it is also unconstitutional, ladies and gentlemen. We are discussing here as if nothing were a constitutional budget. I can't! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Then we learn about the media – we have been sitting here in the house for days and discussing and then learning about the media! – that the budget will look quite different tomorrow. We have discussed it in the Committee for a week, discuss it in plenary session – and tomorrow we will come up with a request that will put the budget on the head, and the budget will look completely different. Tomorrow at this time – it is about 7 p.m. – you, the government parties, have decided on the budget, it will at least have been voted on at this time, but 24 hours before this amendment, which will be very extensive, is still not available. However, we have been negotiating a budget for two weeks, here on the basis of a budget that is macular tomorrow. I can't do that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] In the last few weeks, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, we have shown a great deal of understanding that we are in an exceptional situation. We have supported you in launching important measures, we have helped you to get them started as quickly as possible, but, ladies and gentlemen, that is now, this procedure, it is clearly too far! This is not just a disdain of Parliament, it is a demonstration of disdain. I have not yet experienced such a thing here, and we must not let this happen – out of self-esteem, as self-confident parliamentarians and democrats. Ladies and gentlemen, this goes too far, so we cannot deal with Parliament. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, as well as by Mr Künsberg Sarre and Mr Loacker.]] I hope that, in their political groups – at least with the Greens I have already seen, there will be a great deal of hope that this will be done here by the government parties. In particular, this awareness is already there that such a process of self-respect of a parliamentarian is not worthy and cannot take place. So, to the science budget: The motto “cost of what it wants” obviously does not apply to the students, Mr. Federal Minister. In the entire science budget, there are no measures to support the better management of the Covid-19 crisis in the Tertiary budget. The students – a group of people who still live by the hand in their mouths, who have to work mostly in order to be able to afford their studies – are now breaking away the job opportunities, the classic student jobs are breaking away in the current crisis, and there is no support, not even the minimum that you will be awarded the tuition fees for this semester. You'll say the universities are supposed to do this, or they can or won't do it. But you could say: We replace the universities, we get our students under the arms here! – That would be the least in the current situation to help. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The ÖH has set up a hardness fund. Mr. Federal Minister, you could say: Yes, this is an important measure to support students in this situation, I am substantially uplifting this fund so that the cases of hardness can be helped accordingly. A word to the colleges, which are also particularly important to me: These have asked us to support their concerns because they no longer cope with the funding rates and urgently need an increase. I am very happy to support this concern. It would be urgent to support these institutions that are important to our young people's training. I support this very much, but we do not know what the budget will look like tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e43877	Mrs Mag.a Eva Blimlinger is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e43901	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to what Mr Kuntzl said when she said that the budget was unconstitutional: Thank God it is still so much in Austria that the Constitutional Court finds what is unconstitutional and what is not, and not the SPÖ – for we have had much to do in recent years in view of what has been said as unconstitutional. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You can hold this action, but here it is decided, and what is unconstitutional, the Constitutional Court decides and not the SPÖ. [[Abg. Lightenness: That was your view now...!]] [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] It is also quite surprising if Mr Kuntzl points out how weak or how poor or how inadequate the budget is in the field of science. That's where I've got to say: If you're blind on both eyes, you don't see it. It would have been nice if, over the last 20 years, there had been this kind of budget for universities, colleges and also the other tertiary area, because as much budget as there is now, there has never been. [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP]] For the first time, we are more than EUR 5 billion, and through the transition to capacity-oriented funding, the universities have a plus of EUR 250 million this year. I think they could also be out of these millions, and I give you some right – of course there are no tuition fees, since I would also advise you to talk about study contributions – to partially replace the study contributions. I can only tell you: We have always done this at the Academy of Fine Arts when I was a rector – without Covid. We have always replaced the study contributions. The universities can do this for the most part, which is not an amount you need to have available in addition. In this context, it is also important to mention that many of the points within these new service agreements, which have been valid since 2019, have been achieved, namely the improvement of care conditions and the maintenance of good care conditions. I hope – and this is what I would like to deposit at this point – that universities will not be harmed by the fact that the goals have already been achieved, and that they may get less money. One word to the colleges: I, too, have a great deal of concern for the technical colleges, and they also receive 330 million euros. The budget will therefore be increased to EUR 330 million. Of course, it is also about what is possible and what is also possible from the professional universities, which are always very proud of co-financing. As a special concern, I would like to mention basic research: The FWF gets a lot more money. There is the idea of NEOS to say that he needs much more money and the situation is very bad. Of course, research – basic research – always needed money, but when we look at the FWF budget for the period 2018 to 2021, we see that 850 million euros and 224 million euros per year from 2021 onwards. I would like to say once again - I have already said this in the Committee on Budgets - that: It is very important to me that the funding programmes remain, especially those for women – for example, the Elise-Richter-Programm or the Hertha-Firnberg posts. They're an important engine, there's money for that. Of course, the scientific youth in Austria is to be promoted in order to continue to establish themselves internationally. In this sense, I am pleased that universities, colleges and basic research, as well as the ÖAW and the Austrian exchange service will be well assured with this budget over the next few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e44007	The honourable Member is hereby informed of the matter. Dr. Martin Graf. The remaining speaking time of the Group is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e44057	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! After the educational trip of colleagues Taschner to the 19th century. In the 10th century and in the list of ten outstanding points you have forgotten an essential topic: You didn't say anything to the colleges, and that for good reason, because there's a lot in the arrogance there – we know that. That is why we are putting forward a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] No matter what the budget will look like – we will see the amendment – this will probably be necessary. We know that de facto has not been a corresponding valorization for 20 years. We have made up a lot during our government participation, which has also been implemented: The number of places has been increased by 1 000, but the various fields of study are not, as Mr Blimlinger said, actually secured, but it is necessary to improve in this area. I would ask you to use all your weight and size in order to achieve the desired success that professional universities can actually continue to work and train our youth as a success concept in the tertiary education sector of the Second Republic. Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[19:14]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e44157	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, it is properly put in place and is therefore also under negotiation. Mrs MMag has now come to speak. Dr. Agnes Totter. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e44181	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! At our schools, the changeover to Distancelearning was very well handled. At the beginning, it showed how flexible and powerful the educators are. In addition, many hours had to be invested in order to achieve distance learning and to support students by far as possible individually. The next major challenge was and is the recovery of traditional teaching with new directives, requirements and the necessary measures to protect the health of all. For the cohesion, flexibility and great use of all the teachers involved, students, students and parents, I say a warm thank you at this point. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The principals are also and have been particularly demanding in the last few weeks and have shown great commitment. They were faced with numerous additional administrative tasks due to the crisis, which they did – especially in the field of compulsory schools – without administrative support. That is why I am glad that administrative support is planned as an improvement in the government programme. I would like to thank the Federal Minister for his support and far-sightedness in this regard. I am also particularly pleased that the federal government is now providing the municipalities with financial resources for infrastructure measures, as this will also strengthen the location of schools in rural areas. The crisis demands a lot of flexibility and has certainly welded the school partners together more closely. I am convinced that this will allow us to take along additional momentum for a good relationship in schools, for our children and thus for the future of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e44227	Mr Helmut Brandstätter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e44248	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Science is evidence-based. That is, we have to have data, and that is why the government programme makes very sense that the Austrian Micro-Data Center is set up. Unfortunately, we do not find it in the budget. Now it says it's supposed to come next year. We have just seen in the pandemic that we need the data that we have to provide the data to the scientists. We don't. The President of the Austrian Medical Chamber, Professor Ssafes, has, together with the President of the World Medical Federation, appealed to the EU to create common databases. We have already talked about artificial intelligence: We will not do this in Europe, we will not talk worldwide at all if we cannot make the data available. I really appeal to you very strongly that you become active in this area. I would like to address a second point because it has always been said to me that the schools have come through these two months. I have looked at the EU Digital Education Action Plan of 2018, in which each country has been scanned to see how well it is equipped with digital connections. The fact is that – in any case, according to this 2018 report – only 11 percent of public schools in Austria had digital access. Only 11 percent of the elementary schools – that's what we're in the lower range. At the higher schools, we are in the middle field. If we really want to be innovative at the front, we need to get much, much, much better in the field. I don't understand. I always hear great things that work well, so much doesn't work at all. Yeah, Rudi, that's our opinion. Let's do this at last! Of course, schools must have access. That would be very important. The next point is the link between basic research and applied research. I spoke about this with Prof. Markus Hengstschläger – evidence based, he is a failed person, we certainly agree. Starting %s [[the book “The Average Fall” by Markus Hengstschäger]] I found a book at home. [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Loacker: They are already provided when they read their own speech!]] Read the book, really: “The Average Fall”! I've never heard of the accusation: He's got too many books at home. – Yes, I have a lot at home, but also a lot in the office. Read the book! I'm sure Professor Faßmann knows it. What is the essential statement? – That we are not all on average that each of us, every human being, has their own talents, but unfortunately also that our schools do not promote these talents enough because they do not rely on creativity and not on individualism. We need to get a lot, much better. And where we need to get even better, that's of course when teaching basic research, it's under-dated, although it's said here, that's all so great anyway. In figures: The FWF already recorded a loss of EUR 83.7 million in 2017. 581 projects have been last rated as excellent but do not receive any money. We need more money here, so I put the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you, Minister of State! - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[19:20]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e44358	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. Mrs MMMag has now come to speak. Gertraud Salzmann. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e44385	Mr. Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Brandstätter! I also have many books at home, I don't take them with me. I'd rather bring my expertise from practice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] – Unfortunately, he doesn't listen, is. This budget has come under difficult conditions, and yet I really can express my joy here: It is a good budget for education, Minister! Thank you! It provides a strong plus of 420 million euros for education and a proper plus of 250 million euros for science. The school, ladies and gentlemen, is not just a place of learning, but the school is an important habitat. The forms of teaching and learning have changed considerably since the 1980s, and digitization has taken a proper turn. Yeah, it's always air up, that's clear. The school buildings should also reflect this, and therefore, Minister, I was particularly pleased when you presented the school development programme, with which you invest 2.42 billion euros in the Austrian federal schools, in new and expansion buildings. As a teacher, I am particularly pleased because these are our working and living spaces, for the students and for the teachers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the course of education justice, this means a substantial strengthening of all schools, especially those in the regions, which are a viable area with schools. I would like to say briefly, because today's speaking time is very limited, to address essential demands that we can now implement, many years of demands that have not been implemented: We finally introduce ethics lessons – we have been waiting for them for many years. We finally have a strong high ranking for the AHS: 70 million euros – the AHS, which has been gradually diluted by your predecessors over many years, you have to say so. We will also create additional day care places and much more. Investing in education, ladies and gentlemen, means investing in the future. This is a strong signal for the education society right now.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e44448	Next speaker is Mrs Eva Maria Holzleitner. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e44470	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Just briefly to the explanation: The budget increase addressed by colleagues Taschner refers to an inflation adjustment for teachers' salaries. This is actually a very regular process, but if you think so, perhaps one of the few figures that are still voting in this budget. Who knows? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] Education and Science: two sub-divisions that should actually set forward-setting courses for children and young people or, as Mr Fäsmann might say, are decisive for how human capital is formed. The budget service has rightly formulated the great concern that gender injustice is reinforced by home schooling, which has now taken place all over the world. Unfortunately, there is no measure in the budget that would be directed against it. Targeted women’s promotion – apparently a foreign word. Correct numbers – apparently just as a foreign word. Unfortunately, in the field of students there are just as much more of the same as under Schwarz-Blau: no ambitions to abolish the tuition fees for professionals – and yes, I say tuition fees, because for students it is not study fees, that is a bad euphemism, but study fees! –; no ambitions to make higher education more transparent in order to really break up educational inheritance; no ambitions for real funding of Austrian universities. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] It must not be forgotten that the increase in the budget is due to the fact that there has been a decision here in the House in 2017 – as many of you, like me, have not yet been, in any case, a decision without the votes of the EIA. All other parties have contributed to this. The Federal Minister is very likely to have ambitions, at least according to the government's programme, namely, in the further introduction of access restrictions on universities, in valorizing, invoking, and tuition fees. This will continue to keep higher education in Austria an elite, and this is very bad. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hear: Such a fool!]] The pressure and challenges in the education system and in universities are constantly increasing, not only during the Corona crisis, and this is really worrying for children and young people and students. We finally need an education ministry with sound speed. The last two and a half years of pace were really too few, so we would really want more ambition here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e44522	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Maria Smodics-Neumann. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e44547	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! I would like to mention two things that are especially dear to my heart: on the one hand, a warm thank you for 330 additional college places. As a graduate, this is a special pleasure to me, and I can really recommend this form of training. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the other hand, as a graduate of a higher vocational school, I should like to thank myself for the pragmatic handling of compulsory internships, which are very important, also for the clear commitment of your part to compulsory internships. This is a win-win situation for companies as well as for those in training, because it is the first reference to economic reality – a great thank you for it. Wherever it goes, it will be done, and where it is not possible, due to the industry and restrictions, the rise to the next level will not prevent. Thank you for this very solution-oriented approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e44585	Mrs Katharina Kucharovich. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e44609	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! A few words to the non-present finance minister Blümel: It is an absolute naughtiness and it is inconceivable that a Minister of Finance of the Republic of Austria submits to Parliament an unconstitutional budget, not even the debate itself, and only the media announces that there will be an amendment tomorrow. This is the way to deal with us, not with Parliament! [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Hear: Don't be so upset!]] Now to you, Minister Fassmann: With confidence, I sometimes feel that you may not always be aware of what kind of activity you have, what type of responsibility and, above all, what impact there is for many, many people behind it, namely for children, young people and adults, students, students and teachers, because otherwise, I think, the budget would look different. I would like to start with elementary education. What to do Your place of business? What to do Your budget for child education facilities, for children in child education facilities? – There is a separate department in your department, but we do not know the output. There are 15a agreements, there are negotiated finances – where are they? And there is actually the plan to force the development of training facilities for elementary teachers. Mr. Minister, where do we find this in your budget? - Nowhere! A second area: Summer schools that were announced great. ==References== June. It's only more than a month, then the summer holidays start. Where is the planning security for the children, for the parents and also for the teachers? – We don’t know anything at all, and it will be high time to finally put the concept on the table. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can now come to the universities and to the students: It was also a very difficult time for students with uncertainties. Distancelearning is somehow a very casual term – but so easy-going and happy-peppy it wasn't for students! This also shows a study by the University of Vienna: Only 7 percent feel “very successful in managing home learning. ” As far as the technical equipment is concerned, I ask myself quite honestly: When will the universities finally arrive in the 21st century? century, in the digital age on? I don't mean that PowerPoint presentations are presented online, because that's not it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A final point: Stop Finally, you are asking for these unworthy chain contracts at the universities, which are often in the middle of the building, which concern incredibly many women. This situation is really, really unworthy. And please don't tell me that would have to do with university autonomy – as a legislator, I know that, but you could set incentives if you just wanted to! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e44664	Mrs. Claudia Plasolm has now been reported to the House. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e44688	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! In the budget, we not only plan 70 percent more resources for environmental and climate protection, but we also plan additional resources for education, for our schools. In total, we invest 9.3 billion euros in the future, in the education of our children and young people. Corona doesn't have any in front of our schools either. Halted, schools were temporarily closed and the students were taught from home. We were quick to do so in Austria, responded quickly, and provided funds, for example, for laptops awarded to the students. We have set up our own school grant fund for cancelled school events so that parents and students do not stay at the expense of Vienna Weeks and language trips, and much has also been invested in the e-learning area. What do we have to do with this large budget in the field of education? – It is important for us that these budget resources also arrive in the classrooms that each student benefits from it. Our focus is therefore on digital educational media, a stronger professional orientation and the further development of teaching with Matura. Our Minister of Education presented the new school development programme 2020 a few weeks ago. It covers 2.4 billion euros for modern school sites with a total of 270 construction projects throughout Austria, which not only boost the economy but also enable a comprehensive and high-quality school offering in all regions of Austria, especially in the rural regions. In Upper Austria alone, we enable 57 projects in the fields of expansion and renovation. I believe that every euro that is invested in education is absolutely right, because this means the future if the next generations are properly prepared for it. Finally, I still wish all the maturants a successful written matura week, tomorrow the math matura is before, for which I naturally press the thumbs. I think you have worked out more than hard through this disciplined and independent learning during the corona pandemic the Matura! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e44729	On a point of view, Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Heinz Fässmann mentioned himself. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e44753	High house! Mr President. I would like to thank you for the statement that I am always listening very attentively to these discussions because many important things are being addressed. They are clearly sometimes overpointed, but this is, of course, part of a political debate that is about convincing others to convince the public. I do not put aside your arguments, I particularly find certain points extremely important. Mr Brückl, you have, for example, addressed the management problem: What can be controlled from the minor square, what can be controlled decentrally at the school locations? – There is no doubt about finding a balance. The same applies to the question of Matura: What is standardized and comparable and what is autonomous regulation? – There is also a balance to be found. The question of the Austrian Micro-Data Center together with Statistics Austria is also an extremely important but also an easy-to-solve question, because the solution is not dependent on the millions, but ultimately only on the willingness of Statistics Austria to find a reasonable agreement with the researchers. Finding a balance is one thing that, I think, is going through the whole educational policy. I don't push your arguments aside, move. You don't see my presentation right away, either. My presentation is: We have an education budget, a science and research budget, which clearly reflects the focus of this federal government. The figures have already been mentioned: 14.3 billion for breakdowns 30 and 31, which is already a respectable position. We spend 7.7 billion, that is 83 percent of the educational budget, for the teachers and teachers – but that is, I think, well invested money, because school without a teacher simply cannot work. However, we say Sibylle Hamann has pointed out that in the next ten years also 2,4 billion euros – in my documents 2,42 billion euros – will be spent on a new school and school rehabilitation programme. We are currently investing around 450 million euros in the ongoing projects, and in the so-called pipeline there are more projects of 500 million euros. I also know that if the Federation does something, then the countries and the communities will go along with: They also invest in their schools, so to speak, and there is a lot of work going on in the new school building and the renovation of schools. In such a time, I think this is very useful, in the sense of Keynesian stimulation, if you want to do so, to generate demand, which usually always comes from a local, regional economy. We ensure that this new school building is energetically reasonable: Insulation, photovoltaics, all these things are realized. However, we also ensure that there is a modern learning environment so that schools can be expanded so that they can take care of the whole day. You can put all this aside, Mrs. Künsberg Sarre, I know, and you could say that everything has to start immediately – but it is not quite as easy when it comes to new school construction. Because I've been talking about all day care: Also, a quarter of a billion will be spent in a planning period from 2019 to 2022 in order to reach the goal of a 40 percent care rate. Mrs Kucharovich, you have addressed elementary pedagogy and asked where the resources for elementary pedagogy are available – yes, that is the 142 million euros in the 15a agreement – a federal agreement. [[Abg. Kucharovich: This is an old variant!]] - Please? - That's what? – No, this is the ongoing 15a agreement that has to be issued now! [[Abg. Kucharovich: An old variant!]] [[Call the SPÖ:Alt!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hammerschmid.]] The Federal Government is investing, and this is where the countries invest with appropriate co-financing, and this also allows for a very strong expansion of the language support, the compulsory kindergarten year and the childcare facilities for younger children. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] It is also clear that you do not highlight certain things, but they are equally important: 40 million per year will be invested in the German funding classes! This is an important measure, because we have to reach those whose competence in the language of teaching is not sufficient in German, because they have either not received it in the parents' home or because they are new. In my opinion, it is essential that we encourage children with migration backgrounds and poor German skills in good time so that they are not depended on in school. It is also clear that, of course, you do not mention those things that are socially important – but I wonder why you did not even address them. Rehabilitation of compulsory education and basic education: EUR 9 million; Success Project Teaching with Matura to make a training system consistent and also to enable those who are in a dual education to study the Matura and even later: 12.4 million euros. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So my request is: Push You are not quite advocating my arguments and you are also opening your eyes to the budget and to the activities which, I believe, are, in a certain sense, socially symmetrical! May I also say something about budget science and research? – Eva Blimlinger, you already pointed out: The universities receive 11 billion euros in a three-year period, as much as they have never received. I know, of course, that has been an initiative of the House, and the Maurer Club was a crucial part of it. Nevertheless, the universities get as much money as never before, that is a fact, and can write out jobs for 360 new professors – or have already occupied them – and thus significantly improve the care relationship, but also cover new research priorities. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Martin Graf, you pointed out the colleges. The technical universities are undoubtedly the second central pillar in our tertiary education system. We have raised the funds of the technical colleges in this budget to EUR 330 million. Of course, one also has to say that these funds are not directly comparable to the universities, because the universities are public law bodies and colleges are mostly legal persons behind whom a recipient stands. Nevertheless, in the government programme, we have taken over a targeted expansion of the high schools and an increase in funding rates. I think both of them make sense. This can be both rigorously argumentable, and we will also realize it together for the FH sector. Mrs Kuntzl, I may also be able to draw your attention to the study aid. This is an important element in enabling studying to be done as well as those whose parents may not be so well - off. Austria has a very well developed system. I know the Bafög system very well, and the Austrian system is certainly better. 255 million euros flow annually into the study aid, thus reaching 45 000 students. In relation to the exam-active students, this is at least 20 percent. Mrs Kuntzl, you said we did nothing to get the students away from their socio-economic burden in this semester. However, I do not think you have noticed that I have declared this digital semester a neutral semester in terms of study aid and family support, so to speak, because I wanted to take out a certain amount of pressure. It is clear to me that gratitude is not a political category, but one can at least take note of it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I also need to say something about basic research and the FWF. In a three-year period – 2018 to 2021 – the FWF receives around 850 million euros from the federal government until 2021. The FWF will reach its previous peak of 224 million euros per year. We have also shown this level in the federal financial framework, which is essential in order to achieve a secure budget in the long term. I know it can still be more for the FWF, but when we talk about basic research, we also have to meet two or three key institutions that deal with basic research: the ÖAW, which at least receives 363 million euros in a three-year period, is IST Austria, which receives some 200 million euros in federal funds, and that is the Ludwig Boltzmann Society. All three are essential institutions of basic research. My last point – which is also stated in the budget, but I think it is essential – is: The federal government finances around 38 members of Austria at international research institutions. Cern's such a thing. Cern is irreplaceable to high-energy physics. We have an expensive membership of ESO, the European Southern Observatory, but it is irreplaceable for astrophysicsians, we are a member of many other international institutions. So because I look at the research scene very well, I have to say that Austria is well placed in this case, we can cooperate with the best in the world and we can compete with the best of the world. It can still be more. If the High House comes to the wisdom to give more money for these things, then I will not be against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e44854	Mr Klaus Köchl has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e44879	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Minister! Thank you – I have the feeling with you when Members talk that you listen attentively and don't play with your phone. That's not what all government members do. I only address a very small area, but you did not address it, that is the area of apprentices. I myself was an apprentice and that's why it's so important to me. I am born in 1961, at that time it was very difficult to get an apprenticeship, so I can understand this if parents now fear that their children will not get a teaching position. We in Carinthia already have great thoughts about how to do this with financial referent Gaby. They've been put together with experts, and that's what happens in other federal states. That's why the Federation needs to go along, so the request that you accept it, because it's just important. If someone comes from a school, has no perspective, can't learn, then, I think, that's something that doesn't comply with our training law. I am therefore really looking for you to accept this because I simply believe that this is one of the most important things. Unfortunately, as far as these over-party or over-company training facilities are concerned, it is not as much after the idea as we would like to see social democrats. This has been abolished, the apprentices now earn less. I think it's important to expand this right now. In hotels and restaurants, there will be fewer businesses, less opportunities to learn cooking, waiters and the like. I think there's a very big shortage and I'm trying to get you to do something. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e44914	Next speaker: Nico Marchetti. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e44938	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As I look into the SPÖ sector, I really realize why the word comrade is also the past form of enjoyment. So I really don't understand how you can only find negatives on this budget for education, science and research and that you just don't see the chances in there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Greiner]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] So take your party-political helmet once, because glasses would be suppressed, and let's take a look at it very carefully! In the field of education, we have closed the so-called financing gap that existed for a long time, including among SPÖ Education Ministers. [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] We're financed and we don't have to push around anything afterwards that goes out, that's perfectly dense. We also have in the field of science the largest budget of all time, in the Second Republic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Y ılmaz.]] [[Further call to the SPÖ.]] I don't understand what you can't find cool on it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to say that the window of opportunity regarding digitization in the education system is open across borders. Due to the Corona crisis, we have conducted a forced field test in Austria, how digitisation can work in school and university operations, and – as I am not up to – thanks to the request of Members of the Künsberg Sarre, this is also scientifically accompanied. We now have the opportunity to see exactly where we need to inculcate where we can do something where it works to roll out digitalization in the field of education on the basis of that large project. Not only that, we now also have with the municipal package, which is at least 1 billion euros, and the school development programme of 2.4 billion euros the financial resources to improve precisely at these points as regards infrastructure in schools, with the municipal package in the state schools and with the other package in the federal schools. That means we're really on track. I think we should see this opportunity and shape it. It is the sense of being a politician that he wants to co-design and change something positive. I don't understand why you don't want to be there at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If this party-political SPÖ glasses is already below, then also to Vienna [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] From the municipality package, 238 million euros flow to Vienna. This is money you can use for the country schools: for investments, for modernisations. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] I think that's a really good chance. The school development programme flows 540 million euros into Vienna schools. In total, it is almost 800 million euros that the federal government takes over for the school system in Vienna. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So you have to apologise for this now, just because you're not from the SPÖ, or do you recognize that this is a chance? I am certainly looking forward to the fact that we are also filling up with life these really good conditions that we find at the moment. Maybe I've awakened a little bit of pleasure with you, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e45059	Mrs Kuntzl has made a statement on an actual correction. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e45083	My predecessor falsely claimed that the ÖVP had reached the highest university budget. It is true, on the other hand, that it has been decided on our initiative back in 2017, with the votes of almost all the parties here in the house. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] A party voted against, namely yours, the ÖVP.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e45113	Mrs Nurten Yılmaz. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e45138	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We all here in the hall know how important education is. But we also know – if we are honest now – that in our education system not all benefit from education as much as it should be. A classic example: Those who can afford to be resuscisable have it easier in school, is better. Whoever can't afford it has it harder, doesn't make it, stays sitting, has the biggest difficulties. There is, of course, an opportunity to intervene in a balanced manner. The magic word is a chance index. This is very unambitious in your government programme, my dear Greens, Mr. Federal Minister, - I must say that - and not even that is budgeted. This possibility of creating equal opportunities, promoting children, not leaving a child behind is not budgeted. In addition: For a week and a half, I have the feeling that we are doing such a kind of self-employment. Those numbers we have been working with up to now – knowing that they are not voting – are gone. We don't have them now either. A sentence on colleague Blimlinger and her understanding of democracy: Here it is decided and the Constitutional Court then decides. – If this is your concept of democracy, I really have to reorganise my positive prejudices. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Blimlinger.]] My greatest disappointment was the Federal Minister anyway. At that time I was pleased that he became Federal Minister, but the black pedagogy of the Ur-ÖVP is being carried on with the Greens today. - Congratulations!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e45181	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Johann Weber. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e45213	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House, and especially valued spectators at home in front of the screens! We have been discussing a budget very intensively for two days now, which we will decide tomorrow. It is a budget that can be referred to as “crisis budget” under quotation. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We would certainly prefer to discuss a “normal” budget – under quotation marks. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] The fact is: Corona we didn't want to, Corona we didn't choose, and it's what it's like. I am glad that we decide on this budget tomorrow, because that is what we have security. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Loacker: Do you really want to correct yourself now?- Oh, my God!]] I would now like to take the opportunity to thank all the teachers of a school which has not yet been mentioned, the agricultural school system. I belong to this school system, and agriculture has also proved in this difficult phase of the Corona Weeks and months that the schools have fulfilled their educational assignment. – Thank you again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now I want to break a lance for teaching with Matura, which the Federal Minister has already mentioned: 12.4 million euros are allocated to this school and education sector. It is a very timely, needs-oriented training opportunity for our youth. On the one hand, young people can learn a teaching profession and, on the other hand, make a mature examination. This gives rise to many possibilities. They are also exactly the professionals who have always needed the economy in recent times and which they will surely need again in the comeback and afterwards. This possibility of training is even more forceful in the future. That's my personal opinion. I know a lot of young people who have already done this training, and they tell me how they have done. It is a hard training, without a doubt, but success gives them the right. They are very much in demand on the market. – Thank you very much again, Mr Federal Minister, for this is reflected in the budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We all know: Investment in education and training is the best investment on the one hand for our youth and, on the other, for Austria's economic location. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e45304	In order to make a corrective statement, the honourable Member has the power to do so. Eva Blimlingerzu word reported. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e45332	So if I look at the concept of democracy of you, I have to say: I was right! If you don't understand what violence is, then I don't know, because education obviously doesn't exist and-- [[Call the SPÖ:Factual correction!]] [[Abg. Loacker: Do you know what an actual correction is?- Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e45371	Ladies and gentlemen, I just have to point out something. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Blimlinger:... political education...!]] [[I would like to congratulate the Greens and ÖVP for the Abg. Blimlinger.]] Mrs Blimlinger, you may not have heard it, but the microphone was turned off because I wanted to point out how this correction could have been done. Mrs Petra Fürderwinkler. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e45417	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Fathers. Let me begin by saying a few more words to my colleague, Kirchbaumer, who gave my opinion on my last speech. It is content and facts that we are discussing here, and it is not necessary to express personal insults. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Yes, I've been in the public service for almost 25 years, and I'm proud of it. By the way, my husband has been self-employed entrepreneurs for 20 years, and I experience almost every day, as with SMEs, that tax advisors themselves are despairing, that there is no money and that even good companies are on the verge of the abyss after three months. – Just so much that I don't know myself. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Ministry of Education's budget: It causes me trouble and a lot of questionable signs. It is about children, about our children, about your children, ladies and gentlemen, who still have their lives ahead and deserve opportunities. Why is no additional money now being taken into account to compensate for and recover the deficits of the last few months? No measure has been adapted in this direction. Especially now that the crisis has left traces in the soul of the children, it is working on spa flames. For example, counsel teachers are deducted to supervise other children, although they need to care about the needs and fears of the children. You must imagine that the children have experienced dramas at home: Unemployment, sickness, despair, worries about the future! Their lives have changed completely and they need assistance and help. All of a sudden, things are different in school: Masks, disinfection, distance, no turns, no games. Two brief questions from school practice: Why don't we have to put on a mask in the inn on the toilet and the children at school when they go to the toilet? Or: Why should children not move in school, although movement is so important for mental and physical health? – Experts in this field – and I count each individual teacher and each teacher – certainly did not recommend this because there are enough units of movement that are possible in the current situation. Do you know how many tears we had to dry because the children were completely insecure, completely disturbed? This crisis leaves massive traces of the next generation, if we do not do anything now, and that is just a small part of the real situation! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Künsberg Sarre.]] This budget is totally inappropriate to meet the current challenges. The impact of the Corona crisis is not shown, but even without Corona the budget would be insufficient. No measure under the government programme will be budgeted. It is therefore close to being financed by savings on other sides. This would be in line with the hourly reductions made during the short planned discussions for the next school year. You said you were invested in German funding classes. [[towards Federal Minister Fässmann]] Then why were the hours deleted right there? We are currently on the way to an adult school crisis if we are not doing anything now. I therefore urge you to make a real commitment to our next generation in the interests of our children and to invest in them.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e45494	The next speaker is Mrs Mag.a Corinna Scharzenberger. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e45518	Mr President. Thank you, Minister of State! High house! The consequences of the Corona crisis bring great difficulties for many companies and endanger many jobs. We know that, and that is why it is now all the more important to take money into our hands, to invest so that we can secure jobs for the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] It would not be more meaningful than in the training and future of our youth. The school development programme of our Federal Government does just that by promoting the economy and at the same time improving infrastructure in many schools. The rural regions throughout Austria will be taken into account, and I am particularly pleased that five schools in my district of Liezen benefit from this project. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] This support goes directly to the boys and secures jobs in my home region. At this point, I would like to thank the Federal Government as a whole, now deputy to you, Federal Minister Heinz Fässmann. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Ernst-Dziedzic.]] Especially the expansion of digital infrastructure in schools will become more and more important, and it must be clear to us that there are two thirds of the jobs that our children will practice today. In order to prepare our students for these new challenges, there must also be the technical requirements in schools. Only in this way can we make them fit for the requirements of the future. Of course, the 2.4 billion euro aid package will be reflected in the budgets of the next few years. First, however, it says: Go with time, otherwise you go with time!, and second, is not the time to save in the wrong place, but to invest in our regions, to invest in jobs in our regions and in the future of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e45575	Mrs Mag.a Dr. Hammerschmid has been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e45597	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to use the last few minutes to bring light into the dark. What is being sold to us as an increase in the educational budget, I would like to put it in order again. [[Call to the ÖVP: Where is the wine bottle?]] To the EUR 2.4 billion for the school development plan: The 2008 to 2018 budget for the school development plan, for the expansion and expansion of our schools and for the renovation of our schools amounted to 2.4 billion euros. So this is a continuation of the construction budget already planned for 2008 to 2018 with a delta of two years, because this school development plan has been left for two years. [[Call the ÖVP: Have you already drunk the sect?]] Mr Tashner, Mrs Salzmann: Yes, these are largely modo the salary increases for teachers. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – I still know my 2017 budget very carefully, believe me, more is not in there. The resources for elementary education: This is simply the continuation of what we had agreed in 2017 on the 15a agreements, and the 40 million euros of language support: [[Interference by Federal Minister Fässmann]] Yes, this is the remnant of the integration stopper, which has been taken over in the regular budget, which is true, but it is even 40 percent less than we made available for integration and for language promotion at the time. [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Fässmann.]] That's it. – I ask you again: [[Federal Minister Fässmann: I don't know!]] 1 billion euros more for our children, for our schools, because every cent, every euro is a wonderfully invested euro in our children and the social challenges we face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e45678	There are no more words available to me. The discussions on this subject have thus ended. I am now interrupting the session until Thursday, the 28. May, 9 o'clock. Negotiations will continue with Division 10: women and equality. The sitting was suspended. [[20:06:58]] [[The meeting was held on Wednesday, 27. May 2020, at 8.06 p.m. and on Thursday, 28 May 2020. May 2020, resumed at 9.05 a.m.]] [[09:05:12]] Continued the meeting: 9.05 a.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e45727	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. On the third plenary day of the budget debate, I should like to welcome you very warmly. I'm taking the interrupted meeting, the 32. National Council meeting, re-opened. Mrs Kira Grünberg has been reported to be prevented. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e45760	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: Federal Minister for European and International Affairs Mag. Alexander Schallenberg, LL.M. will be the Federal Minister for Women and Integration MMag. Dr. Susanne Raab. I announce that ORF 2 will transfer the meeting by 1 p.m., ORF III to 7.15 p.m., then it will be transmitted in the TV library comment. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e45799	The day-block speaking time for today’s day of 8 “Vienna hours” as well as the division of today’s discussions are known to you. Klubobmann's representative, Leichtfried, spoke before entering the budget consultation. I can give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e45831	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I have already referred to the Rules of Procedure yesterday and said: That's not how it goes! , and the following events have greatly strengthened me in this conclusion. [[Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP]] Mr President, I would like to urge you to take the matter into your hands now, to interrupt the sitting now and to convene a brief stand-by address in order to really clarify the further procedure now! Mr Klubobmann Wöginger assured us yesterday that, according to the use of this House, an amendment, if it comes, will be made to the House 24 hours before the vote. - That was not the case. He came very late at night. It is an application that suddenly redefines to the EUR 20 billion. It's good that it happened, yes! It is good that once the attempt was made to improve these crafty shortcomings, which have so far existed, which have probably never been the case in the history of budgetary policy. How Legistic whether this is right now – and there is serious doubt about that – I do not want to go into it now, but of course that should also be clarified. The fact is – and Mr President, think about it! –, I've got that to say now: The honourable Members here in the House have negotiated a wrong budget text for 60 hours. This is unacceptable, Mr President. That's a rhythm! [[Complaints with SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS.]] Now there is a request in the middle of the night that tries to clarify some things – but once again: this is about 20 billion euros, that is not nothing – but at the same time it does not even take into account the forecast budget downturn of more than 10 billion euros. Yes, what about the Minister of Finance?- Oh, my God! Excuse me! I can't do that! That is why, Mr President, I ask you to interrupt the sitting. We believe that it is absolutely necessary to refer this request and the whole discussion back to the committees – referral back, new hearings, new discussions – because this is absolutely unacceptable, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e45891	Klubobmann Wöginger spoke about business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e45916	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We submitted the amendment at 23 a.m. because it was necessary to control it again. I would like to say one thing: That is the amendment, it has two and a half sides; but it is right that 20 billion euros are presented differently. [[Keeping that application up to date]] We have presented a surplus of EUR 28 billion in this draft budget from the outset. Now it is the case that these 28 billion euros are allocated to four sections, where, as it were, these expenses are expected due to the covid crisis. We still cannot say how expensive short-term work will be. We cannot say, after all, how many billions it will be in liability, in grants, in guarantees or in payment of the hardness fund. What we do is: We live up to the criticism of the opposition by assigning these 28 billion euros to the headings at the end of the day. These are estimates, because more is not possible. With regard to revenue, ladies and gentlemen, all the experts, all economic researchers, say that it is simply not possible to represent it, because there are different forecasts of minus 3.2 percent to minus 9 percent in negative growth, and therefore we cannot represent it either. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This account – and Mr Krainer has hit the top vortex yesterday – is also presented and is filled with 20 billion euros. That is the amendment. It is not so difficult that in the next 8, 9, 10 hours – as long as I see it, the debate will last today until the final vote is reached – these two and a half sides will be seen by all political groups at the end. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] We have tried to submit the proposal as soon as possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] We can also discuss the position in the Bureau when we will vote at the end, so that the use of the House will be taken into account. In this case, the Commission is required [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] It is not, however, ladies and gentlemen, that one cannot see these two and a half sides with one-sided reasoning in the next 8 hours and decide whether to agree or not.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e45985	I'm interrupting the meeting for a stand-in-law.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e46013	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to resume the interrupted sitting after the standing presidency. No agreement could be reached in the standing office. Debates are still being held, but we are continuing on the agenda. For business treatment: Mr Angerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e46047	I would now like to comment once again on our position on this amendment. We now have the 28th. May. ==References== May we started a hearing to discuss a budget here in the house. Our access was: If there is to be an adjustment to the budget that we have always called for, then it should, of course, be presented before the process before hearing. The Minister of Finance has always told us that this is not feasible, and he is now presenting us with an amendment on the last day before the vote, amending the budget by around EUR 20 billion. So we cannot continue to have confidence in the finance ministers, not only in terms of us, but also in terms of the Austrian population, the Austrian taxpayers. We cannot give him any confidence, and that is why today we will also make a mistrust against the Minister of Finance. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It was our proposal and it is to end the debate immediately, to reject all the speakers, to refer this request back to the Committee on Budgets, to advise accordingly and then, if necessary, to vote here in plenary. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e46086	For business treatment: Mrs. Klubobfrau Maurer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e46110	As I said, we have now discussed in the Bureau how we are doing. [[Call the FPÖ:I don’t understand you!]] – But that’s not true! - Good. [[Call the FPÖ:But! Oh, yeah! We don't understand you!]] [[The speaker takes off her mouth-nose protection.]] So we have now discussed in the Bureau how we deal with the situation. After a vote on 23 o'clock to comply with the 24-hour Frist, there was no wish of two opposition groups. The change, the 28-billion-over-limit that we are discussing here, has already been discussed. We live up to the desire and criticism of the opposition, and I would now also advocate that we continue in the debate and decide on the budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e46160	For business treatment: Mr Klubobmann Leichtfried. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e46185	The situation is how I described it before: The most comprehensive amendments are contained in this proposal, and I believe that we still have a situation which is extremely dissatisfying both in terms of content and law, and which also poses the risk that this whole budget may fail in legal terms, not only in terms of content. That is why we have also proposed – now again in the presidential term – to interrupt the debate. Of course, we also need to look at the pace, but it would be possible to interrupt the debate, to convene a budget committee as soon as possible, to discuss and analyse the new state of affairs there and then proceed as soon as possible. But there was no consensus on this – I really have to say: unfortunately, there was no consensus, because it would certainly have been a way for the representatives of the government parties to come out of this situation face-to-face. Unfortunately, it was not so, and we do not accept that, but rather we are aware of it.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e46215	For business treatment: Mr Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e46239	We were presented with two and a half pages of change, but a budget is not only from the expenditure side, but also from the revenue side. As Klubobmann Wöginger said, an economic decline of at least 3 percent is expected, rather than more. This will, of course, affect revenue. These have remained the same in the budget – such a clot, for the audience – but they should have been adjusted. [[with hands showing about half a meter]] I believe that they should have been adjusted with commercial caution, rather at the bottom of the forecasts.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e46270	Klubobmann Wöginger has spoken about business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e46294	So this discussion is very strange. [[Call the SPÖ: That's right!]] [[Cheerfulness and detonative applause with SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS.]] - No, really. That's really weird. They pretend – the SPÖ, the FPÖ, both already involved in governments – as if an amendment had never been tabled in the debate on the individual sub-divisions. [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] - Everywhere! I can remind you, Mr Pendl and I have once submitted a request to the previous speaker, through which 5 million euros have been postponed.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e46353	I'd ask you: Everyone can talk about it in the discussion. It is not appropriate for the dignity of the House to permanently interrupt the speaker in a serious debate on the Rules of Procedure. They are also the other speakers - - – Then come out! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Greiner.]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e46380	And it wasn't different with the FPÖ. It is common for amendments to be tabled, and that was the case with many budget decisions, no matter what party was involved in the government. This is about EUR 28 billion, which had already been presented as an overrun in the budget. What's going on? – Only that this can be done by the listeners: We agree to each heading on the basis of how we assess the expenditure situation with expectations and estimates based on the Covid measures. [[Abg. Krainer: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Krainer: That's wrong!]] It is more detailed than to have the 28 billion euros, so to speak, in an overall package as an overrun. That's the whole thing that's going to go down here. [[Abg. Krainer: That's wrong! ...!]] Mr Krainer, we even meet your wishes and your demands! We're going to follow them to picture this here, too. This discussion you have here, just out of the role of the opposition, is ridiculous. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But we also offer you: If you still have wishes or requests, this can still be resolved with the experts. We are happy to provide you with the necessary information, which is not at all a topic. It cannot be, however, that an amendment which now, as it were, distributes the sum for the Covid measures differently and allocates them to the individual headings, such a theatre donor. This is completely unnecessary, and we will decide on this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e46450	On the Rules of Procedure: Mr Angerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e46475	Once again to the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, because Mr Wöginger has now said that this is just an illustration of what has been discussed in recent weeks. If an entrepreneur were to act in this way, the expenditure side would be increased by EUR 20 billion and the revenue side would be the same, and would go to a bank and say: I need more credit, 20 billion euros more credit!, then that would be called negligent Krida.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e46502	On the Rules of Procedure: Mr Mag. Light peace. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e46526	Mr President. I would just like to replicate Mr Wöginger to make it clear to the ladies and gentlemen what it really is about: 60 hours for nothing debated in this House, 60 hours debated on the wrong basis! – That’s not parliamentarianism, that’s a farce! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] All we want now is for the Coalition majority to grant a committee to be able to discuss this once again in the Committee, and if not even the It is possible, then I no longer understand this approach at all. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] [[9:42]] [[09:42:25]] UG 10: Women and equality
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e46572	We are now continuing the budget consultation and we are getting to Division 10: Women and equality. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e46602	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear Seers! Now I have the opportunity to translate what has been said here in the Rules of Procedure. Do you know what the two-sided person who was sent at 11 o'clock in the night means? – This would mean – for those who are watching now – that what is now in the river, namely that we can pay out aid money – too slow, too bureaucratic and too little – is stopped, that the payouts are stopped. This mistake has happened to you, this Murks has happened to you! - Could you not admit that? Can't we change that? Can we not discuss this again in the Committee on Budgets? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's negligent! [[Contradiction of the Abg. Wöger.]] – Oh yes, Mr Wöinger, oh yes: If you decide today to make this amendment, that would stop paying the aid! – Blossom can't do it, that's the truth! [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] So slow down: If this legistic Murks, this two-sided, is decided, no more money will flow! It's not responsible to go any more! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] Please think about it again! Let us interrupt this meeting and call on a budget committee! Let's talk about it! A corrective position is important, because the money has to arrive. Now the money's not coming! This Murks cannot be decided. That would stop paying the money for hundreds of thousands of people. So please let's talk about it again, honestly! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr President, in fact it is inconceivable that we should now proceed seamlessly to “woman and equality” and talk about a budget that we do not know at all what this evening will be like in the final vote. I really think I'm a little bit more than a little bit of you now: Well, Heinisch-Hosek, come out, talk about the women's budget! We now have quite different concerns, namely whether this budget can be decided at all. That's inconceivable! In addition, we need more money in the area of women, and I am therefore very quick to table the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs Minister, if you are not a feminist, you are at least committed to women's rights! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[9:45]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e46766	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Member of the Pfurtscheller Chamber has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e46791	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear colleagues, but especially dear viewers! First of all, I would like to refer to Mrs Heinisch-Hosek's speech and correct something. [[Abg. Greiner: He was very good, the contribution!]] There are, of course, no aid funds at all at risk from our way of doing so. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Oh yes, most seriously threatened!]] Our procedure is constitutional, and none of you must be afraid that the disbursement of the various corona crisis aid funds will be stopped or in danger. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, I find this rather sad, for two reasons: First of all, the SPÖ has held us for days now that we would work with the fear of people. What You just did, was the grip on the very bottom drawer I've ever experienced from the SPÖ. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Secondly, as a fighter for women's rights and, of course, also for the affairs of the women's minister and the women's budget, I have always appreciated and admired you very much, but that you use your speaking time here to scare people instead of addressing women's agendas is so poor for a woman's spokesman that I miss the words. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] So, now to our women's budget: Our women's minister succeeded in significantly increasing the women's budget by almost 20 percent, by around 2 million euros. In addition, it has committed itself to using part of the funding from the integration stop for women who are particularly vulnerable, especially for women who have migration backgrounds affected by genital mutilation or forced mutilation. That means we have an increase in the women's budget of almost 40 percent! – Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, you are long enough in the business and you have been a long enough minister: Show me someone from your ministers a. D. who has ever managed to bring about an increase of 40 percent! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] That is why I would like to thank you very much, Mrs Minister, for your commitment. – And now I want to explain very briefly what we are doing with this money. It will spend about half of the total budget for the promotion of girl and female advisory facilities and will be made available for specific women's projects. These institutions have already been given a commitment by the Minister to increase their respective funding by 12 percent. This money will ensure the wide range of advice offered by girl and female advisory institutions throughout Austria, and most of the remaining funds are intended for the protection of violence. It's important to us that every woman who needs protection gets protection. It should definitely get it, and with this budget it is ensured that it will work. Overall, we can say that we can be very, very happy about this increase in the budget. I would like to thank all those who have worked for this, especially my colleague from the Greens. We will continue to fight for it and ensure that women in Austria are fine. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e46883	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e46908	Mrs Pfurtscheller has just claimed that Ms Raab was the first minister to raise the women's budget by 40 percent. This is incorrect in two ways: On the one hand, she has increased the female budget by 17.2 percent and not by 40 percent, and on the other hand, it is correct that the then Women's Minister Doris Buresda's female budget has increased by 60 percent.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e46938	Mrs Ecker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e46959	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the hall and at home! Women are carrying this country through the crisis, and women's work has become clearly more visible in recent weeks. But what will remain of the chatter for the system-related professions in which most women are employed? – Epidemics in the past have shown that there have always been disadvantages that the women eventually had to escape. In the “profile”, Elfriede Hammerl quoted “So Still the Heroes. ” – Yes, it is true, women have done it and still do it: they work. They are trying to do the best they can to master the exceptional situation in this corona crisis. They also invite school education to their to-do list. They strive for meaningful employment for the little ones, make care for the older generation, see that the situation in the family circle does not escalate, and that next to cooking, washing, and, and, and. Oh, yes, and actually they have to work something else, in the trade, in the office, in the home office, next to the children – always in the concern whether anything happens anyway, whether everything works, whether the job is preserved, so woman has one more thing at all, whether the money will be rich, whether the facility for the disabled child will open up again, whether parents can finally move freely in the elderly home. Another extremely stressful issue is the current school business – incompatible for women in work, care more poorly than right if the child is not in class, pick up of teaching material, of relaxed children's hours no trace! This corona crisis also puts itself on the minds of the children, which ultimately have to compensate the parents, the mothers; no sports lessons, no common songs, no group games, not even the coloured pen you can borrow from the neighbor, masks and signs all everywhere, but nothing is normal. It is a huge nervous burden, a huge challenge that this crisis has brought to women – and, ladies and gentlemen, women do not want to be left behind! All of this is in addition to what we have often discussed about the situation of women in Austria, namely: Genderpaygap, 20 percent; Genderpension gap, 42 percent; salary shears closes marginally, and this will be a hundred years. Age poverty is female; Women do 75 percent of family work and care, of course loving, but unpaid and non-retiring. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! About violence against women is to be read every week in media coverage: Genital mutilation, forced, briefing with Imam. In Austria, acquired women's rights are trampled with feet, and there you would be asked as an integration minister, as a women's minister. Women must also have a perspective that these changes, such change, have a good outcome. This also belongs to the work of the Minister for Women, and where do we find muttach programmes in the budget? – Oh, yes, I'm sorry, Corona doesn't exist there! Dear Minister of Women, you say women need to be thought-out. Do you want to tell us that women's policy is for you – a clamp on: a bothersome bandage – attached? We expect your women's policy to be applied to all women, including health, and I propose that: [[Quoted print version removed]] In the already slightly increased budget, 2 million euros are missing – in view of the 20 billion euros in today's amendment! Missing Their better knowledge means important projects – for a future-oriented women's policy away from Genderei instead of a little bit more of the same. More budget, more violence prevention, more measures against imported, mostly Islamic women's image, which prohibits young girls from being free and self-determination. It needs more places for endangered women, more mother-child homes, more women promotion in general. But the Equal Treatment Committee is a special stepchild of the government, the first actual session on women's issues will be held on 9 May. Give it June. – Thank you for that! In particular, to the address of the Greens: I would have expected you to be more committed to the women. But more women in women's policy does not automatically mean that better women's policies are being made – and this is clearly also set out in this budget. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[9:56]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e47094	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Meri Disoski is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e47120	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! What has stood up for years cannot be repaired in a clean-up – for example, the situation of the UG 10 budget can be summarized as a focus on women and equality. Indeed, a lot has stood out, which shows a look at the analysis of the budget service to the UG 10. There, the progression of the women's budget for the years 2013 to 2020 is shown; whereas progression is an inadequate choice of words, it should be called regression, because it was mainly budget cuts that the women's ministers have faced in recent years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Let us see, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, three figures: In 2013, the budget was 10.38 million euros – under a SPÖ Women's Minister in a SPÖ-led Federal Government. In 2016, the budget amounted to 10.14 million euros and thus less than three years before – under a SPÖ Women's Minister in a SPÖ-led Federal Government. In 2018, under Bogner-Strauss, the budget amounted to 10.17 million euros, less than five years earlier – under an ÖVP-led federal government, under an ÖVP Women's Minister. So: Regression instead of progression, cuts instead of increases. Let's look at the year 2020 now! The budget for women's and equality agents is 12.15 million euros, and I am not afraid to mention clearly what the figures show here: The difference between previous years, which results in the government participation of the Greens! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] If, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, you are now paraphrasing this budget increase as a drop on the hot stone, please be so fair and add: This stone would have been less hot and the increase in the budget could have had a correspondingly greater effect if SPÖ-led federal governments had also been responsible for financing the UG 10 budget accordingly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Apart from that – and I also want to make it quite clear –: 12.15 million euros for women's and gender equality agents are just as inadequate in 2020 as the 10.38 million euros in a SPÖ-led federal government in 2013. That's not enough, these funds are not enough. This is not enough for gender equality, for violence, for violence prevention, either in 2020 or in 2013. In this country there has never been enough budget for this, that is a fact! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, has structural reasons: because women are still not involved in all the decision-making structures and processes that would be relevant in order to ensure that the budgets look accordingly. Even when it comes to money, women are still underrepresented. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] Against this background, this chronic subfinancing does not surprise me. While we are debating the budget of the UG 10, the Alliance is non-violent at the same time holding a press conference to point out this – once again point out! – that the anti-violence institutions have been under-financed for years; for years, not even today! I will continue to use more money, along with my colleague Elisabeth Pfurtscheller, in whom I would like to thank him for his good cooperation. In the Coalition Convention, we have a substantial Increased budget for women and equality agents agreed. The 2 million euros are a first important step. But it is clear that: Further steps must be followed and followed. Further steps: Much has been discussed and reported in recent weeks on the gender impact of the Corona crisis. I too have already given an opinion on this point from this point of view. On this basis I put forward a motion for a resolution by Mr Disoski and Mr Pfurtscheller. The Federal Government is invited to examine the gender-specific effects of the Covid-19 Pandemic in Austria in a timely manner and, where necessary, to take further initiatives to combat gender-specific effects. Mr President, the request will be submitted immediately. I come to the conclusion: What has been standing up for years cannot be repaired with a washing up, but you have to start – or better say: woman. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e47226	Mrs Brandstötter is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e47248	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear spectators at home! If I had been asked a few months ago, as I see the history of feminism, I would have drawn an increasing curve – a success story, always facing the sun. Very soon my dream as a liberal feminist would have fulfilled: No one forces us women to set ourselves on a particular model of life, no longer play any distinguishing features such as sex for self-determination and self-realization. Then came the Corona crisis, and with it came yeast hamsters, flowered kitchen Aprons and instructions on how to clean perfectly the lambs of a heating. One is suddenly caught in all social networks in a permanent loop of a fifties housewife film. This strongly shows that the Corona crisis is a crisis of equality. She has managed within a few weeks that traditional gender roles celebrate a sensational comeback. It's the women who cook, clean, and sew masks. They are women who work in home offices and in the system-related professions. [[Abg. Martin Graf: Because there are no more men!]] It's women who do home schooling and take care of their families. It's not the men, because they're supposed to make less marks in the job in uncertain times – he deserves more. [[Abg. Martin Graf: We are both the feminists!]] – Commissioner, do you also have something essential to contribute to women’s affairs, or do you just stick from behind? [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and Greens.]] Men often cannot teach their children at home, do not clean and do not cook meals because they just earn more. Thus, in a very pragmatic way, traditional role images have become quite self-evident again. The perfide about it is that our government in this Neobedermeier is suffocating. That's not a big gesture, it's not a world openness – that's, me! Yes, the women's budget has been significantly increased, that is good and right, but inflation-adjusted 600 000 euros are also really necessary for the protection of violence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf]] At the same time, however, you spend 40 million euros to make Austrians' holidays at home tasty with an advertising campaign. This campaign marks a “sound of music” cliché and really leaves nothing to do with it: juicy pastures, deep salt chambergut lakes and wide mountain panoramas are migrated, bathed and looked at by fitte, young, white and obviously heterosexual couples. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ]] Quite honest: On the other hand, the “Musikantenstadl” is progressive. [[Mr Heinisch-Hosek and Mr Deimek.]] So they spend a lot of the women's budget to advertise with stereotypes. What do we need instead? – I find something quite exciting about the plan that Hawaii has presented, the so-called feminist recovery plan. It considers how to achieve sustainable recovery after the crisis; it is noted that women must be put at the heart of the considerations. So instead of returning to the old normal state, one has to build structures that can deliver sexual justice. These include the extension of child care with a right to a kindergarten from the first birthday, more flexible working hours, more father participation through individual claims on care and child care funds, and finally an automatic pension split, as you have already announced. Since our women's minister is a little hard at taking the word feminism into his mouth, we can also translate a feminist recovery plan of the ÖVP into her language and simply call it: “Wonderful in the New Times”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e47323	Mrs Deckenbacher is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e47360	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! At first sight, the budget for women's affairs and equality with a level of 12.5 million euros – this is a plus of 2 million euros – does not necessarily act as an instrument that could allow an above-average margin of action, but can nevertheless be seen from the gender target map that a large number of women's and gender-related impact targets are also embedded in the other sectors, thus significantly increasing the budget. Let me give you a few examples. For example, from the field of work: There is to be a continuation of the FiT programme – women in crafts and technology. In the area of social and consumer protection, the redeployment of support measures towards special promotion for women with disabilities will improve the labour market. Public service is also important to promote women and to develop equality, as public service is a guarantee of security and stability, especially during this crisis period. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] In many areas – especially in administration, health, teaching staff, but also in judges and prosecutors – there is a high proportion of women over 50 percent. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Only through the interaction of women's and equality-related impact goals in the various sectors will the great importance and relevance of the task of our Lady Minister become visible. In this way, the actual margin of action of the budget is faithfully reflected in the motto: Individually, we are words, a poem and strong voices for equality and women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e47408	Mrs Schatter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e47429	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! It is a benevolent exception that women's policy is discussed today, so to speak, on Parliament's delegation prime time and not at midnight as usual. Mr President, perhaps we can take this more into account on the agenda in the future. [[Consistency with SPÖ and greens as well as with the Abg. Fire brigades.]] As expected, the measures to control the corona virus have also negatively affected women, and as far as violence is concerned, there were only in March, when baseline restrictions and quarantines entered into force, an increase of 10 percent in the bans. It is, of course, much more difficult or impossible for women to break out of a situation of violence if the violent person is in the common home all the time. Even before the Corona crisis, we have found that there is an urgent need for action on violence against women: More than 80 women's murders since 2018 are only the tip of the iceberg. This summit on violence against women is daily and affects women regardless of age, origin or social status. That is why we called for an additional 4 million euros for violence and violence prevention measures in February, which unfortunately did not receive the approval of the government parties. The many necessary measures for the protection of violence and for the prevention of violence are on the table, and we have discussed them here on a regular basis. We discussed them in the course of the Grevio report on the Istanbul Convention, we discussed them in the course of the Women's People's Desire, and in 2018 we unanimously decided to provide 100 additional care places for women affected by violence. Ladies and gentlemen, your words to counteract this violence against women do not help if you do not also support them sufficiently budgetfully. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] All these measures could have been implemented long ago. Especially in the Corona crisis, it shows how urgently they are needed. Yes, an increase of 2 million euros is a good first step. Mrs. Disoski, you have unfortunately forgotten to mention that women's minister Pamela Rendi-Wagner succeeded in an increase of 0.5 million euros in 2017, which was withdrawn in 2018. The money, the necessary money for measures to protect violence, ladies and gentlemen, is available. Save with the additional funds for the representative expenditure of Mr Bundeskanzler! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Fire brigades.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Greiner.]] Chancellor staging does not protect any woman affected by violence, does not protect any child affected by violence. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to focus briefly on another issue, because we are also discussing the chapter on equality: In our neighbouring country of Hungary, despite massive protests, the controversial special power for the government has ended the access to changes in gender entry and thus the state recognition of inter-sexual and trans-persons de facto. I therefore also propose a motion for a resolution on this subject: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Deputies Brandstötter and Shetty.]] [[10:11]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e47661	Both applications are properly submitted, sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. We will see that we are constantly bringing the women's chapter and other topics into prime time – as you have said – because I think it is also necessary to place a sign here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Greiner]] [[Congratulation with ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and NEOS as well as the Abg. Rosa Ecker.]] Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e47703	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Dear spectators at home! Today we're talking about the women's budget. Many issues have already been addressed, and the budget figures have also been mentioned several times. We know the budget has been increased. According to the opposition, it is too little money. We would all wish ourselves much more money in many areas, but we also know that the budget is not a wish concert. For my part, I would like to take the opportunity to talk about women in systems-related professions. Who are these women? – For example, I think of Gabi, the Billa-Cassier, 32, two children; she was standing behind the checkout all the time in the Corona crisis, and she was looked wrong because she had to drop her children in the kindergarten. I also think about Dragica, 15 years old; she does not speak fluently German, works in a cleaning company and is glad that she has not lost her job in the Corona crisis. I also think of Svetlana, 42, from Slovakia; she has extended her service here for weeks in the 24-hour care and has not seen her children at that time. – These are all real examples, examples that go to my heart personally, probably all of you. We were so grateful to these women, we called them heroes, we gave them applause every night for a while. That's what I thought: At the moment, these systemicly relevant professions and also these women have been there before the crisis, because we have not observed them, but now we appreciate them. We also don't care that many of them are migrants, we know what important work they do. We ensure or will ensure that they remain visible after the Corona crisis – or something like that, I have heard this very often here, perhaps even myself. But I've been thinking personally; I've been thinking: Is this really about the visibility of these women? What do they have of being visible in society? I just thought I was one of these women – then I'd ask myself: What do I have if I am now more visible in society? – Yes, that’s nice, but more is not behind it, I have to say quite honestly. I am sure that these women have different wishes, and these women certainly want better working conditions. These women certainly want better or flexible childcare. When I think of Gabi: It sometimes has to work at Billa until 8 p.m. or 9 p.m., but the kindergarten is open until 6 p.m. – This is not so without it, so she has to look at how it works. For example, I would like a family allowance similar to that for Austrians for Svetlana and her children; she pays just as much in the system and her children are worth the same. [[Congratulations on the Greens and Deputies Brandstötter and Shetty]] What I think all these women want is better pay, a salary they can live on, a salary that somehow also reflects that they are system-relevant, especially a salary that does not make them tremble, whether it goes out until the end of the month. Ladies and gentlemen! All these are not unfulfilled desires. These wishes can be fulfilled. We do not need to wait until the next crisis, we could actually start right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e47751	Member Yannick Shetty has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e47775	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, I have to talk again now about an area where there is no budget to which the budget is largely lacking, namely measures for LGBT people; Mr Schatz has also mentioned it briefly. However, I would also like to thank you, and I am quite honest with that, because you, Mrs Minister, have been in the committee, and that has really surprised me, for having been responsible for LGBT-persons. So far, it has been felt that this has no place at all in this government, there is no competence at all. I am pleased that you said in committee that you are taking over the coordinating responsibility. We still have a lot to do. Even if it is said again and again from certain ore-conservative and reactionary circles: What do you really want, you have already achieved everything, you already have marriage?, has not everything yet been achieved, there is still much to do. One thing is still to be noted, because I recently held a discussion with a colleague from the ÖVP: What we have achieved, we have not taken away from anyone, we have not stolen it anywhere, that is for us. We have been getting what politics has for years denied us. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I would like to take out two areas in which there is still much to do, because many, I think, are missing the imagination, which is still to be done. It is quite clear that gays and lesbians, when the discussion is so intense, as in the LGBT sector for example, have been in the foreground for a very long time. With regard to intergender people, for example – 0.8 percent of all children who come to the world come to the world intergenderly – there is no regulations in Austria. In contrast to Germany, there is no ban on inter-sexual genital mutilation, i.e. non-medically indexed operations on five to six-year-old children, for example. The former Federal Minister Kickl then gave an illegal instruction on the possibility of the third gender entry, and Minister Nehammer wants to continue to stick to this illegal action. So there's something to do. What Mr Schatz has already mentioned: LGBT rights are not a matter of course. We only have to look beyond the Austrian borders: In many European countries, in Poland, in Hungary, these rights are gradually withdrawn. I have, if someone is interested because there is again a lack of imagination, a few days ago on Twitter shared a video of situations on streets in Poland, where LGBT activists walk on the street and are physically and verbally attacked by right-wings, so that they have to be afraid of their lives. One third of the Polish territory has now been declared LGBT-free zone. 18 or 19-year-olds who are gay or lesbian must fear their lives there – and that in Europe in 21st century. ==References== That means we still have a lot to do. I have tried it here more often with requests for content, so that I am unfortunately failed by the Greens and the ÖVP; for example, a request concerning the rehabilitation of homosexual victims of criminal law was postponed by the Greens in the Committee, a request concerning the abolition of the blood donation ban was fired by ÖVP and Greens. I'm trying it very basic today, maybe it's possible, because it's something symbolic, but for the community, as often as with women's evenings, symbolism is often important. Here visibility is often important, for example for a 17-year-old gay boy who has no support from home who is being mubbed in school just in his outing phase. There is also often the importance of symbolism and I am therefore submitting the following motion for a resolution – perhaps the most male ÖVP minister can also get through to give his consent or then implement it –: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] [[10:20]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e47901	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mrs. Raab has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e47925	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers and Seers! The outbreak of the corona pandemic has changed a lot in the last few weeks and months for all of us. This budget is also subject to standards other than those for many budgets. Nevertheless, the decision of this budget is particularly important so that we can implement important measures and projects in our departments. This also applies to the women's budget. As a woman's minister, the decision of the budget is therefore particularly important to me. The first increase in the female budget for ten years is a real and important step, and that is why the budget decision is correct and important. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] What will happen to the budget? – Around half of our budget is spent on promoting girl and female advisory facilities, including specific women’s projects. For example, these are 57 women's services, nine specialist services on sexual violence, an Austrian women's helpline, an Austrian-wide online consultancy, 73 long-term advisory services for many women and girls As well as four emergency shelters, an emergency home apartment and many other long-term projects. This offer is available annually by more than 100 000 women and girls in Austria. That's the part of the means. The second part of the funds will be allocated primarily to the area of violence. This will ensure, in particular, the financing of the anti-violence facilities in Austria, together with the Ministry of the Interior. 18 600 women have taken advantage of this last year, have thus been directly affected by violence and have sought support from these anti-violence institutions. As a competent woman's minister – and also against the background of the importance of this work that is happening on the ground – I am very proud that we have for the first time achieved an increase in the women's budget for ten years. In 2020, this means that 12 150 000 euros are available for women's affairs. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The increased women's budget provides us with the necessary room to implement important projects, especially in the field of violence protection, and to secure existing projects. One thing, of course, is quite clear: Women are cross-sectional issues. That is why women's affairs are not only located in my department, but, as the joint government programme shows, women's issues concern many areas of life and are covered by many areas of competence of other ministerial colleagues, for example in the Interior Ministry, the Minister for Labour and Family Affairs is addressed, the Minister for Digitalisation and Business Location has set up many women's promotion projects, the Minister for Science and Education – everywhere there are gender equality issues and women's promotion topics. In my original field of work, I will focus on the following priority areas: First of all, the strengthening of women's contact points: It was only recently possible for us to support us with an increase in the budget of around 170 women's advisory bodies and also long-term projects with a 12-percent increase. This 12 percent increase goes far beyond the inflation adjustment, which is much more so, and therefore these women's advisory bodies will also be strengthened – an important and correct measure from my point of view. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Strengthening women's contact points is therefore so important to me, because I want every woman who is threatened with violence or even becomes victims of violence to know where she can turn and find support across Austria. Secondly, Since today, there has been a new call for support from my home for the protection of women and girls. 1.25 million euros will be awarded to projects to prevent violence against women and girls, because the data situation is clear: Violence is not a marginal phenomenon, because in Austria about 20 percent of women, i.e. every fifth woman, are affected by physical or sexual violence. That's about 660,000 women. Every seventh woman is affected by partner violence. Especially frightening are the cases of very severe violence, whose number has increased in recent years. In 2018 we had 41 killed women to complain, 39 in the previous year, and ten women were brutally murdered this year. That is why it is important for us to invest more money in this area. In addition, from the integration budget of my department – from the budget of the Austrian Integration Fund – I have also made available 2 million euros for projects against cultural violence against women. Thus, the 40 percent increase in the female budget is achieved – over 2 million euros from the original Women's budget and 2 million euros from the integration budget. The latter relates in particular to the culturally-related violence of women and projects aimed at preventing this culturally-related violence against women, such as female genital mutilation, forced marriage, but also child marriage. In addition, we will support the EU prevalence study on gender-based violence and, as Austria, we will also participate in the years 2020 and 2021 in order to gain knowledge of gender-specific violence against women and men. Thirdly, In the course of the baseline restrictions to control the coronavirus, we have observed an increase – albeit mild – of domestic violence. In April of this year, there were more than 1,000 redundancies in one month for the first time. That is why it was and is also important for me to stress from the outset that women's anti-violence institutions are open to women, that women's advisory facilities are available to women, that women's homes are also open to all women who need protection for themselves and their children. I spoke to my Italian colleague at the beginning of the initial restrictions, and she told me about her experience: In Italy, during the lockdown, everyone believed that these support facilities were no longer open – analogous to other infrastructure facilities – and that is why many women did not know who to turn to if they needed support and help. Fortunately, we were able to prevent that. What did we do? – A comprehensive information offensive, consisting of a strengthening of the 24-hour female helpline, so that every woman gets support from experts at any time of the day and night. We have strengthened online advice so that women who are not alone at home cannot make calls, for example, receive online support via Skype. We have also brought this offensive into advertisements and TV spots so that it has really been made accessible to many people and women. Especially valuable was a cooperation with the trade association: The supermarkets continued to be open, so we have been able to inform about the supermarkets with our information materials on the woman-specific aid services per country. Let me conclude by stressing the principle of what is important to me – beyond the protection from violence: It is the social, legal and economic equality of women that I, as the Minister for Women, will continue to pursue with full force. It is not only important for me, as Minister of Women, to get strong women, as we are all, in front of the curtain, but it is also to me that women in our country find the framework conditions needed for a self-determined life by us women. Each woman should be able to choose her life model freely – whether with children or without children, whether in child care, also at home, or with regard to the compatibility of family and work. Of course, we need adequate childcare, we need the support of women in care, we need framework conditions on the labour market that promote the compatibility of family and work. All of this is going to move forward together with my fellow ministers in this legislative period. The Corona crisis has led us to see what women do in our society: Women represent the majority of employees in the trade, in the nursing professions, in the health professions and also provide overhumane care in the family. I think it must be used every opportunity to: Women are grateful for this great achievement, which they have achieved in principle, but especially in the crisis. – Thank you for your tireless commitment in this crisis! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The crisis has been and is a very great challenge for all those living in Austria, especially for many women, especially as regards the compatibility of family and work in madness between home office and home schooling and household. All of this leads to double and multiple charges if schooling does not take place if the childcare facility is not open if parents and grandparents cannot be used. All of this had to be done by many women. As a Federal Government, however, it was very important for us to be able to provide many support measures during the crisis in the last few weeks and months. We have been looking for a safety net: schools are basically open, the Corona Family Hardfall Fund has been increased by 30 million euros, the new Family Crisis Fund, the relief of the maintenance advance, so that single women can get easier support from the state if the maintenance of the ex-partner does not occur, the corona short work and the special care period. It is quite clear to me, however, that in the coming weeks and months in the course of the comeback, we will have to address women's policies in all areas of life and will have to think centrally in all areas of life. As Minister of Women, I see it as my task to address the necessary diversity of perspectives in all areas of life and politics, to point out that and to push forward with full force the objective of equality between men and women. Finally, I would like us to see and seize opportunities; many, many men, for example, have been in crisis, so in the crisis, also spent much more time with childcare, since much more took over, had much more part in it. We must welcome this and we must also promote it in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e48058	Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Totter, for - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e48080	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! As a result of the corona crisis, the budget is clearly completely different from that of the past. Nevertheless, it is important to decide on a budget that reflects the priorities of this government and makes a significant contribution to crisis management. I am particularly pleased that, in this sense, the budget for the women's resort has been increased by around 2 million euros – and that in times of crisis! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister, for your commitment to women! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Women do great things every day – I would like to thank you very much for that. [[Abg. Loacker: Thanks again, twice!]] Especially now in the Corona era, there were many women who were also required, it was often to bring home office and home schooling, household and family into one. Also in the so-called system-related areas, it was women who took care of and did their work in hospitals, hospitals, education, kindergartens, schools. Therefore, an increase in the female budget is valued by around 20 percent and an absolutely correct and important measure. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The municipal billions presented by the Federal Government are equally pleasing. These funds can also be used to invest in infrastructure measures such as schools, kindergartens and pedigrees and to further improve childcare. Investments in these areas also support women and families and are very welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e48128	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e48150	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Values Advisors! Mrs Minister, we have already given the impression on Tuesday in your speech on integration that culturally-related violence is, of course, an important issue for you. That's also important, don't get me wrong, but when it comes to women's policy, it's actually, from my point of view, a distraction maneuver. The heroes of everyday life, the women, have been mentioned very often now, but the applause alone will not provide them with better working conditions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The applause alone will not lead to any increase in their salary in the poorly paid sectors or will lead them from part-time to full-time work. Thank you very much, but they can't buy anything in the truest sense of the word. For us, the closure of wage shears by measures is essential. Seeing Obviously not as your task, because you say: That's where the Minister of Labour is responsible. – For us, it is essential to create wage transparency so that women can see the differences with their male colleagues in order to see how much less they deserve, and of course – which is very important – to prevent poverty in old age. Pensions still beat up by 40 percent between the sexes. In order to achieve this, a comprehensive childcare is necessary; also, so that not only women, but also men, of course, have the opportunity to get back into full working life after birth, and therefore, of course, the compatibility of work and family can also be enforced so that women do not remain permanently in this part-time period – this is about equality. What really made me speechless was that the budget provides EUR 94 000 for financial resources for women with disabilities. In reply to my question, you have stated that women's projects are also projects for women with disabilities. That is, de facto women with disabilities are totally invisible and irrelevant in your budget if you do not even provide for extra measures for this group of persons. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Künsberg Sarre.]] I call on you to finally cooperate with those concerned and to listen to experts, which is urgently necessary in this area. Inclusion is a major concern for all of us, and women with disabilities in particular deserved it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e48199	Members Ernst-Dziedzic are reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e48220	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Yes, indeed prime time instead of backlash for the women in Austria – so I would summarize the previous debate – and yes, the quieter the heroes, the louder our women's policy must be. Some figures have already been listed, and I do not think it hurts to see what challenges we still have on the agenda in women's policy: Nearly 80 percent of the traders are women, almost 80 percent of those in care, in which care workers are women. We still have over 20 percent pay difference; 90 percent of single parents are women, who are very often isolated. Today we have heard that every fifth woman is affected by violence, and in women with disabilities, there are even two thirds of women. These are all very embarrassing figures for Austria, and in fact, during these four days we only have to deal with equality policy every day at the beginning, because as long as we do not get it, this will be reflected in all other areas. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and the rapporteur, Mr Oberrauner and Mr Frührwinkler.]] The failure of recent years, but the last decades, we can't pick up in a few months. The good thing is that we are currently dealing with an increase in the budget, with fifty measures we are taking as government parties, and not, as in the last legislative period, with cuts in important prevention advisory work for women and girls. I think, however, that some here have a very clear vision of women's policy – I don't know. There is no “the sun”, and neither will we get it by raising the budget a little. Women's policy was, is and remains a struggle for power, money and redistribution. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and the Deputies Salzmann and Scharzenberger.]] In this sense: It concerns, as has been said, all areas. I am very glad that you also keep an overview of the fact that this is not only being reduced to one area, for example, on the development of infrastructure for childcare – quite, very important, because we are involved – as the strengthening of women in rural areas is part of that. [[towards Federal Minister Raab]] The prevention of violence, which you have already mentioned, is urgently necessary, just as men's work is urgently necessary, from anti-aggression training to, for example, a clear rejection of boys at schools who have no respect for their colleagues. There needs to be some clarification, there needs to be more sensitivity, and there is certainly still a lot of work in front of us. It needs: Wage transparency – also a very important matter –, time recording study – something we have agreed on –, job assessment – because we know that there are still sectors where women are active and one alone deserves less – and of course, as I have said, a steady increase in resources for women's areas, as you have all – including the opposition – and that is right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] We Greens have not only made ourselves strong for women's desire and the new demands, we have not only strengthened the past years and decades for equality policy, LGBT policy, but also for all the areas mentioned here by Yannick from blood donation to IGM to trans-, intergender persons, who also need our protection in Austria, so to speak, – these are things that we are committed to, all these are things that we remain on. The good thing about the whole thing is: We do not now have to do with Turquoise Blue, but with Turquoise Green, and especially in this area there will be a serious difference – and I know that you are our allies. [[towards Federal Minister Raab]] Thank you. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: When?]] 10.4 1
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e48282	Mr Kucher has now been mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e48303	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! As a member of an opposition group, I find it very difficult to follow up at all, because even more striking is the criticism of this non-wife policy of the Federal Government, I think, not to put it to the point than to say, "the quieter the heroes, the louder" the "Women's policy must be". – Even more clearly, the criticism of the Federal Minister is, I do not think, because the central point of criticism is in the black or the turquoise, as it is a real question of life realities. Today we have heard stories from the Billa salesman, we have heard from the 24-hour caretaker, but the only thing the Federal Minister has come up with, as one can say thank you, is that in the future one has to get a little bit under the arms of these women and that in the future one will make the sect and the champagne cheaper. [[Abg. Salzmann: No!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deckenbacher.]] That was the only measure with which the Federal Minister took the point. So you can see that she has a sense of the reality of women's life. The single mother sitting at home, and her daughter, who doesn't know how to go, who doesn't have a laptop, and doesn't know how to deal with the school, were not a subject so that they would have said: We have a sense of it, we help the young girl in school and the single mother! She has also had no feeling or ever reported herself to speak when it was said that there are women sitting at home who are unemployed, where the daughter might ask herself: How's it going, Mama, how do we do?, and the mother herself is desperate because she has no job. Now I understand that one does not immediately have a patent recipe in the crisis, but as a politician and especially as a woman minister, you could have given a voice to these women and, in fact, to them. That's actually the bad thing: that you didn't mention that this was never a topic for the Minister of Women in this whole crisis – being a voice for those people who aren't doing well at the moment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Because in this crisis, as I believe, it is also visible that it is a matter of much unpaid work, and in order to document it even if it does not do the women's minister, I would like to make a request on behalf of the colleague Heinisch-Hosek and on my behalf: [[Quoted print version removed]] It is important that, in particular, the unpaid work of women is made visible. I do not want to address women's health – we are in the middle of a huge health crisis – all this was not a matter for the Minister for Women. She always knows exactly what she is not responsible for, she knows very well what everyone else is responsible for. She always says that's a cross-sectional theme, but if you ask, Did you at least ask what happened there? Then she says: I'm not responsible! – That doesn’t mean cross-sectional theme, which is in fact simple to let the topic down. All those people we have heard about today – the Billa salesman, the caregiver, the 24-hour caregiver – have not deserved this: that in this crisis one does not even raise the voice and, in truth, does not feel how people actually do, who have not been born with the golden spoon in their mouths. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Deputies Brandstötter and Künsberg Sarre.]] [[10:45]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e48423	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Weber has now been reported on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e48447	Mr President. Dear, valued ministers on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! I would like to take the opportunity to say thank you that after 15 years there will be a significant increase in the women's budget. It's, we've heard it today, about 2 million euros – that's not nothing. Thank you very much for that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Despite all efforts and efforts in the field of gender equality, it is still common practice for women to do housework at a high percentage, to manage the household, to provide child training, to care for children, to be able to care for family members – and in addition to bringing in their strengths in the gardening work, it must not be forgotten! It has also been seen, especially in dealing with the crisis, that women have been the bearing pillar of society. I would also like to take the opportunity to say thank you here from the speaker's desk. [[Abg. Singer: Thank you! Thank you! Thank you!]] We all know, especially in the health sector and in the care sector are very, very many women employed. I would like to take the opportunity to do so because my partner Silvia is also active in this field of work. She's an intensive nurse at LKH Wolfsberg, and I know what's really been done in this area lately. Therefore, a sincere thank you to Silvia and all ladies and women in Austria. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] Unfortunately, there are still too many women who are not really good. There is still violence, assaults, sexual violence and so on. It is therefore important that 700 000 euros have been made available for girls' and women's advice, for other facilities and so on. Furthermore, I think it will be necessary to invest more in prevention. We also need, if the case occurs, that someone needs help in short ways to get it. With regard to Carinthia, I would like to mention that in the districts of Wolfsberg, Klagenfurt, Villach and Spittal at the Drau, we each have women's houses, which can be visited immediately in a short way and so on and so on – I am already running away from it. Finally, I would like to thank you once again, Madam Minister, for these additional resources in the Women's budget. I am sure that this money, which is used by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, is also very useful. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e48494	Mrs Oberrauner has now been spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e48532	Mr President. Estimated ministers! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate viewers watching us from home! The social and economic system in Austria works mainly because of the fact that women are working in a system-related way, and that is free of charge. Unfortunately, there is no current data in Austria, on which my colleague Philip Kucherhinge has pointed out. I would ask you, Mrs Minister, to really manage this so that we can have specific data. Those data that are available show a picture that is not unknown, but if you quantify it in sum, yet amazing. The value of volunteer work already exceeds that of employment, which is not a novelty either. Two thirds of work at home and care is done by women. If this is calculated in a sum, then you get 100 to 105 billion euros a year – 30 percent of the gross domestic product – that is done free of charge. Equality, equal treatment and equality are three issues which are unsolved, are largely not implemented and sometimes present as a philosophical context. We are still waiting for implementation. In the Corona crisis, it has been seen how much system-related work is often done by women at the expense of employment. Women are ready in the crisis immediately, if they can – as always excluded from their work – reduce their employment, so that they do unpaid work for society, for their family, most recently also as IT expert and online education supporter for their children. How and if that goes, nobody really cares. If it is not possible, the children are the sufferers because they do not have equal opportunities in education and often do not know how to recapture the loss of this information in terms of education. If they can make up for it, it is often associated with great costs for which these women cannot raise the funds either. Equal opportunities will not be an issue for children in times of crisis. Complaints and lip confessions will not be enough. System-related professions in care, health and trade need to be paid better, and I still think it is incredible that it is still not possible to pay the women for the work for which they were so praised during the crisis period, once two gross salaries – gross for net – to show them that we actually value their work and not just give lip knowledge, because this does not mean that these women, who have also risked their lives at a time when they did not know how to use protective equipment well. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Measures to achieve equal pay for equal work and to make the 60 percent difference in pay between male and female employment would be an important part of the economic programme that the government urgently needs to address. This not only brings something to women, but it is also relevant to family income, and it is perhaps part of the economy that is supported to support the economy. Remember, women are not a minority, women are the majority – even when elections have not yet arrived – and women are not in need of help, they only need respect and equal treatment! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e48586	I do not have any further comments on subheading 10. This concludes the discussions on this subject. [[10:52:45]] UG 20: Work UG 25: Family and Youth
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e48616	We come to subheadings 20 and 25, the debate on this is one. I welcome Mrs Aschbacher's Minister of Labour and give the floor to honourable Members. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e48641	Mr President. The women Federal ministers! I am now allowed to transfer to the labour market. [[The speaker put a table on the speaker's desk under the heading 'Unemployment 01. to 05'.]] We have also debated the situation of women, equality and families in detail in the previous debate, and now we come to the subject of labour market: In this respect, families and women have also been very disadvantaged due to the corona crisis and are facing major financial problems. There has been record unemployment since March, the highest in the history of the Second Republic. We see the numbers here in the front. [[pointing to the table]] There has been an increase in unemployment since March, of between 180 000 additional unemployed with level 26. May up to 210 000 in April. The assessment of all experts is clear: This record unemployment will continue to accompany us for many months, and that is why action is needed. When we talk about the labour market, we are talking about employment, but also about unemployment, but also about combating poverty. We have heard the words here from the former Minister of Social Affairs – loud: "Who's doing the job? Who makes the work?” – “The economy” she said. We said: “Who does the work?” – The workers do the work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are now in the biggest crisis since 1945, now politics has to work. Policy is called on to create work accordingly. Austria needs the largest investment package in the Second Republic. The SPÖ has put its proposals on the table in the last few days – yesterday, yesterday – and weeks. Colleagues Stöger and Kollross spoke about the need for a local package, a local package for the largest client in Austria, and these are the 1902 municipalities and the 199 cities. These municipalities, these cities, need money from the federal government to be accordingly liquid, so that they can continue to award orders to the regional economy accordingly. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Gödl and Mr Sieber]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is nothing to help your line with a grant, because a community with a lack of liquidity will not take advantage of the grant. They need to repay the loss of the revenue they had before the corona crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What distinguishes us from Germany, dear ÖVP and dear Greens, is the following: In Germany, the opposition parties are invited to cooperate, there they sit at a table, there these municipal packages are negotiated accordingly, and then it is not necessary to conduct these debates in this form and with this emotion, as we have to lead them here – because the opposition parties are allowed to sit there at the table. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber.]] However, there is a need for many more measures – and that has also been clearly said by SPÖ – such as investments in climate protection. We must see that the country is going up faster: in the case of approval procedures, we must allow direct allocations for municipalities and cities, so that the economy is faster. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ottenschlager]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Ottenschlager.]] It needs incentives for private investment, a simpler rehabilitation check. It needs a craftsman bonus, it needs tax reductions. But there is also a need for measures to stimulate consumption, and this is where we come to those people who are now uncultivated into unemployment for a longer period of time – more than 500,000 people are unemployed. You all of the ÖVP and you all of the Greens have on 19th. May get an e-mail from a young mother and wife. She wrote to you, and I don't know if you answered her – I answered. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: That's a premise!]] Maybe you haven't read it at all, so I'll read it to you now: “I lost my part-time job at the beginning of the Corona crisis and now I get 350 euros of unemployment benefit per month. My husband too has lost his job in the meantime, how much unemployment benefit he will receive, we do not know yet, but 55% of the previous income is a WITZ! [...] How to live around everything in the world as a family of 55% of the former income!! [...] Do you know how many families cannot even live of 100% of their income? [...] My unemployment benefit is calculated on the basis of my income from 2018 [...].” It is ‘11,88Euro’ per day. I would really ask you to answer how this young mother, who gets a low unemployment benefit because she has a child in 2018 and this year is being used for the calculation, is going to get over the rounds. For this reason, I would also like to make a motion for a resolution, which is now the sixth attempt at increasing unemployment benefit, and we will not tire out as SPÖs: [[Quoted print version removed]] If you don't care about those people who don't have the chance to get back into a job for months, if you don't want to leave these people behind, please agree to our request. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] [[10:59]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e48804	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e48829	Mr President! Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear viewer! Yes, the Corona crisis has affected all Austrians, all 8,8 million inhabitants of our country and unfortunately also the labour market. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] We have tried everything from the outset to prevent the worst of the effects on the labour market, and we have achieved one thing: a short-term work model that is unique in Europe. [[Abg. Worm: False!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Worm.]] Mr Muchitsch, we were sitting at a table together, you were sitting at a table with us. I should also like to express my thanks for this, because we have managed together to allow the appropriate framework conditions and a model with which we could keep 1.3 million people at work – and for having this common table, I also thank you. [[Congratulations to the ÖVP and to representatives of the Greens.]] It is true that it is now important – and that is, I believe, important to all of us – to immediately reduce the number of unemployed. I should also like to thank Mrs Minister for not until yesterday's launch of the start-up bonus until mid-June, because this measure will promote jobs and boost the labour market. [[Abg. Belakovich: Oh, that's it?]] [[Abg. Loacker: In which world...?]] Mr Muchitsch, yes, we can make a contribution from policy, we can create framework conditions to promote jobs. I am also thinking of green jobs, whereby in the field of energy, we are setting up framework conditions and incentives to create new jobs, but the entrepreneurs are doing the jobs. We can only support them. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Zorba.]] I am now allowed to deal briefly with the budget chapter of work. We have budgeted EUR 8.4 billion. In addition to the 8.4 billion euros, 12 billion euros come from the general tax pot for short work. These are huge sums, sums that prove how important work is to us, namely, very important. The budget will, of course, continue to support older workers, invest in the training of young people and skilled workers and also promote training and training. Summa summarum is a very good overall package, a total budget, which is mainly aimed at: Supporting people to get back into the labour market. We will do everything in our power – and I am convinced that the Minister supports us in doing so – we will do everything we can to ensure that all the people who had a job before the crisis will have one again afterwards. [[Congratulations to the ÖVP and to representatives of the Greens.]] One thing is clear to all of us: The shortage of skilled workers has not disappeared. Our entrepreneurs also need well-trained staff in the future, and therefore we also need investment for the future. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e48925	In fact, Mr Peter Wurm has spoken about a correction. – You are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e48952	Mrs Graf von der ÖVP has claimed that there is a short-term model in this form only in Austria. I'm correcting: That's wrong, I told the Chancellor before yesterday. Again: There are similar short-time models across Europe and there are much better models in some or many European countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e48984	Mrs Dagmar Belakovich has now been mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e49006	Yes, thank you, Mr Worm, for correcting this. Ladies and gentlemen in front of the devices! My predecessor, a skilled entrepreneur, a big businessman: Wonderful, for them the world is still pink. – If you are affected by these more than 1.8 million Austrians who are now unemployed, you know that this is not quite the case. [[Abg. Tanja Graf: There are 1.3 million people in short work...!]] This world, as Mrs Graf liked to draw, or how the ÖVP likes to record it, unfortunately does not work. We know – and this shows the official home page of the Minister of Labour – that the curve of the unemployed continues to go up. It is increasing infinitely, and if we do not offer proper countermeasures, it will continue to rise. You can still make yourself here as often as you can and explain how great the measures were: 12 billion euros for short work, on paper. - I'll give you all right. But how much does it get to the citizens? What's the deal with the entrepreneurs? - Well, a little over 400 million euros. That is, please, not even 10 percent of the total that has arrived, ladies and gentlemen! (Interruption by Mr Tanja Graf, Mr Ottenschlager and Mr Scharzenberger. ) That's the problem: The money that workers receive has so far been paid by the companies. The Federal Government hasn't done anything yet. [[Call the ÖVP: That's not true!]] There is nothing left to it, just like the hardening fund. (New calls from Mr Tanja Graf and Mr Ottenschlager. ) – You can get out, you don’t always have to scream in. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] – Well, of course that is true, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Worm: you can only shout!]] I don't know what world you live in. 464 million euros in subsidies have so far arrived from 38 billion euros, of which 191 million euros for short work – 191 million euros of 12 billion! So what are you talking about? What world do you really live in? Obviously, you only talk to the members of the Economic Federation, perhaps they'll be preferred, but everyone else just won't get anything, and you'll hear that every day when you talk to the entrepreneurs. You can't always deny that. The figures speak quite clearly, ladies and gentlemen, of the ÖVP. So stop, don't even try to scatter the sand into the eyes of people, he doesn't come in anyway, because your actions are simple and just don't follow the words! This is the real problem we currently have in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So, and now we're coming to this budget. This budget has been calculated on the basis of the unemployment figures of February. This budget has set priorities, which were perhaps correct, perhaps comprehensible in the February. We're living in a different situation now. What do you say? Now you're the one who's got nothing left? What do you say to families in which both parents have become unemployed, who now have to live with 55 percent replacement rate that may have to pay credit rates that have fixed costs? . I tell you, ladies and gentlemen, what yesterday was the response of the EIA: They should then apply for minimum security. That was the ÖVP's answer. That is a despicable thing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we will also support the SPÖ's request because it is necessary, and it is now necessary to boost consumption, otherwise, in Austria, we will no longer be able to get back to the economy. What we are experiencing now is a consumer shock, and this is also provoked by you and your federal government here, because You have not managed to give people optimism and courage at last, but because you continue to endure in your frights, because you continue to scream the fear slogans and talk about the second wave. This is the reason why people are holding back from consumption now, and so we will simply not get the economy to run. - On the one hand. On the other hand: There are many companies that can't work now, even if they had orders, because they don't have any workers at all. That's your next failure. You've made this world a globalized one, and now you're talking about it: Yes, well, that's the EU, we can't, we don't want to. Do you know when the money is loose with you? – Then, when it comes to being held liable for the Member States of the EU. Then the money is loose with the ÖVP. But when it comes to safeguarding their own businesses, their own jobs, then you mess, you say the workers should go to minimum security. This is the anti-social, humane EIA policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Michael Hammer.]] That is why it is also urgently necessary to think about it now and to renationalise the labour market again, so that we can bring back those who are looking for jobs in Austria on the labour market. This is also a subject that you have completely slept. There's nothing coming at all. They're always just sitting there, they're enough of themselves. Finally, please go out to the street, including you, Mrs Minister, and talk to those concerned! Stop playing any number games at the green table! Take the numbers going to what you paid out, here and then you see, it's de facto nothing, it's a drop on the hot stone! That's what I've seen. You can, of course, leave the February budget, and in this way I even understand the Minister of Finance that he doesn't want to change anything at all, because he doesn't intend to help anyone and pay something out. In this sense, I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This would be urgently necessary because our labour market is currently looking the way it looks, it is not due to any virus, but it is due to your non-activities, which is due to the fact that you have forbidden entrepreneurs overnight to enter their business – it is due! – without standing straight for it without the entrepreneurs being compensated for it. That is why the economy looks like it, and that is why labour market data are as bad as they are! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[11:10]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e49311	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Mrs Tanja Grafzu has spoken on an actual amendment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e49341	I'm actually allowed to correct: Mr Belakovich said that 1.8 million people are unemployed. The definition of unemployment is: without employment. What she said is therefore not correct, for there are 1.3 million people in short-time work – with a job relationship – and there are over 500 000 people without employment and thus unemployed. [[Abg. Belakovich: You're home!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, fit!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e49405	Mr Markus Koza has now been spoken. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e49427	Madam President. Dear Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! One more moment: The meaning of short-term work is precisely that people stay in employment and not get into unemployment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] That is why it was introduced, and it has been implemented, and it is a wonderful, great instrument that is being used throughout Europe. - Point one. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Point two: We have a budget ahead of us, and 10 percent of federal expenditure is in the area of employment as a whole – in the old budget. We know that due to the challenges of the Corona crisis, this budget in the labour market is so securely obsolete. The figures are known, they have already been mentioned several times: There are 523 000 people in unemployment, 1.3 million in short-term work, and even if unemployment is currently declining, unemployment is still threatened to go down at a record level in the next few months, and it may well be that if there really are insolvency issues – which are not to be ruled out – unemployment is also rising in the autumn. [[Abg. Schellhorn: She'll climb!]] [[Abg. Schellhorn: What are you doing about it?]] This, of course, has a massive impact on the budget, because, of course, expenditure on unemployment increases, on the one hand, and on the other, income from social security contributions and, in particular, on the other, on wage taxes, on the other. [[Abg. Schellhorn:... not calculated!]] At present, we have estimated EUR 12 billion for short-time work, and even if these estimated funds are likely to fall to only a certain percentage – we have experience from the 2008 crisis, as it was about 25 percent, 30 percent; now it will become more – billions of costs for short-term work will arise. This is very good and very useful money, because it not only ensures employment and income, but in reality is an essential contribution to the fact that – with income replacements of 80 to 90 percent – the income of taxes and social security contributions remains quite stable and the demand remains stable accordingly. Parliament's budget service – a warm thank you once again for the excellent budget analysis! – has also calculated that unemployment expenditure is likely to increase by around 800 million euros – estimatedly – and vice versa due to rising unemployment, the revenue from unemployment insurance contributions will fall by around 300 million euros. [[Ruf: Where is that in the budget...]] We have also estimated EUR 110 million for the increase in emergency aid to be paid from June – these EUR 110 million are also funds that will become directly demand-effective, because they are truly strengthening the lower income groups. This is a very important measure – a thank you to all those who have agreed to this! Yeah, it's not all that's being done. Fortunately, this government continues to take action, together with the social partners. Short work has been extended for three months, there is the new start bonus, which becomes a very interesting and innovative instrument of labour market policy, but of course we need much more when it comes to issues such as reorientation, training, re-training, especially those people who are among the disadvantaged groups, particularly disadvantaged groups on the labour market – these are long-term unemployed, re-enters, older unemployed, people with disabilities – to re-enter the labour market, to employment, so that they have an income. That's what I'd say. It is likely that the 790 million euros we have in the budget will not be enough – or with reasonable certainty. Finally, something which I think is far too little in the discussion on unemployment insurance and unemployment benefit: Unemployment insurance not only has an essential social policy function, it also has a very important economic policy function as an automatic stabilizer. Unemployment benefit is an income replacement which ensures, especially in the crisis, that when unemployment increases and wage income breaks down, at least the demand remains partially preserved – precisely through unemployment benefit – and thus a further economic downturn, a further increase in unemployment is halted or at least reduced. Only: An automatic stabilizer like unemployment benefit can only work as well as it is taught, and it depends on how many people are in unemployment. If unemployment continues to be high and unemployment is relatively low, then we will have to ask ourselves whether we do not increase unemployment benefit for economic and demand policy reasons alone. And I say quite honestly: We Greens will also raise this question offensively and pursue this path offensively, because, as mentioned above, if we want to get out of the crisis, we need strong economic policies. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulation with the Greens]] The increase in unemployment benefit is one that helps us to get socially out of this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e49530	Next speaker: Mr Gerald Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e49554	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! The Greens ask themselves offensive questions – I think that would be an exciting field for every psychologist to get closer to. [[Abg. Koza:... is not everything, colleague Loacker!]] - Yes. Mr Koza has also mentioned that the budget is bubbling because the figures do not actually say anything in it. In fact, the loss of revenue that we have to expect from the economic climate is not budgeted. In the labour market budget, there is nothing at all – but of course that is not the sole responsibility of the Federal Minister of Labour, but Gernot Blümel has to hold his head for this abuse. To say something positive: The Minister has recognized that you can't look at it, watch it, look it on, look it on, or, in short, get it over with, but that you have to do something. [[Rejoicing with Members of the NEOS]] For this reason, she has done a lot of short work in terms of: First we received 400 million euros, then 1 billion and then 10 billion euros and now 12 billion euros. The question, on which basis these figures have been calculated, is still unanswered. We have tried in the Committee on Budgets – the Social Democrats, the Liberals and us – to get out of Mrs. Minister which parameters she takes when she calculates whether we need 10 or 12 billion euros now. – There is no one. It is diced and multiplied with the hair length of flower or so, and then something comes out. What has not worked – this has already been taken care of today – is that this money also comes to the companies that need to pre-finance short-time work. It is nice to announce 12 billion euros, but only 0.5 billion euros have been disbursed, the rest being advanceed by the companies. And then the accusation comes: Yes, then they haven't taken the hold yet and haven't filed the bill! - Yes. What genius has come to the idea of calculating short work away from the net relationship? Whenever a politician scrambles something of net, a personal calculator dies somewhere. [[Cheerfulness with the NEOS and with representatives of the FPÖ.]] Of course, that can't be done! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The degree of incompetence there is to be seen. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: This is inconceivable!]] For example, if Mr Sieber and I have the same job, if he has paid the penalty fee to the employer and I myself charge it at the financial office, then we have a different net, although the conditions are the same. This is what you have thrown away from the government, with the social partners, to the businesses. There is no human being, no tax advisor, no one can administer it, so there are also errors and overruns are discovered in the controls. Even popular aid does not comply with the rules laid down. And now there's a new idea, the restart bonus. - Great! Now businesses and employees are rewarded for working part-time. You work 50 percent, you get 80 percent. These people have nothing if they work 60 or 70 percent, there is an incentive to work part-time, with 50 percent and no more. They aggravate part-time work because part-time working conditions are already exempt from unemployment insurance because health insurance contributions are already refunded. You know that we have a problem in the pension system when people have been in part-time for a long time, and now you are still promoting it. And then you'll probably be reinventing a new bonus again soon, because you're thinking that this bonus is making a mistake. Then there is a start-up bonus and a bonus and another pot and another fund. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] People don't know each other anymore. The government does not know why the citizens should know each other. [[I would like to appeal to Mr Neos and Mr SPÖ, as well as to the members of the FPÖ.]] What we need on the labour market would be qualification; the funds for this would have been reduced. What we still need would be a low tax and tax burden, but that is what you want.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e49636	Next speaker: Mr Norbert Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e49661	Madam President. Minister! Minister! I too, as a family speaker of my group, am of course very pleased that we have a family policy on this – what has it been called? – to discuss prime time. Wonderful! But quite honestly: If, as with this budget, the content and numbers are simple to vote, I would like to decide and discuss this at midnight, so it is only important to me that the content fits. Ladies and gentlemen! For the year 2020, the budget in the family sector has EUR 7.4 billion, and this is truly an excellent international comparison. It is to express it more precisely, 270 million euros more than in 2019. In addition, 80 million euros will be spent on covid measures which directly support families. – Mrs Minister, I would not like to thank you, but I would like to congratulate you for working out and negotiating the budget and these measures. Thank you very much and thank you very much, Minister. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The most important and most successful instrument of family policy in Austria is without a doubt the family compensation fund, called Flaf. The history of the Flaf began in 1968 as a food aid, which became a family aid, and the family tax compensation law finally created the family tax compensation fund. For the Flaf, almost 7 billion euros per year are now budgeted. These 7 billion euros come to 80 percent from service providers' contributions, and a further 1.3 million euros come from a tax financing into the Flaf. Most of the EUR 4.7 billion is used for family support and childcare. Pension insurance contributions for children's education periods, school-free travel, school-booking, weekly allowance as well as operating aid and also the mother-child-pass are financed from the Flaf. Of the considerable 135 million euros of maintenance advances – this is a subject that we have also discussed more often – which are already financed by the Flaf, 89 million euros have been recovered from the maintenance officers. Ladies and gentlemen! Due to the Covid crisis, a significant outcome must also be expected in the Flaf. If in the future we want to keep to a full extent all the important direct family benefits that are financed from the Flaf – and we stand for that – then we will have to pay an even greater attention to the financial performance of the Flaf in the next few years. Many of the services provided by the Flaf are important, correct and belong to the self-understanding of Austrian family policy. No one will be all Questioning serious family benefits from the Flaf. However, it is also our duty and duty to ensure that the financial conduct of the Flaf does not run out of the row in the medium and long term. This government, this coalition, ladies and gentlemen, is sure that in the future too, on the basis of a sound financial and family policy, all important family benefits are guaranteed to us.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e49706	Mrs Gabriele Heinisch-Hosekgeget. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e49730	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear Seers! While it has been so far that the number of hours of paid and unpaid work of women has been almost the same, we know that from the University of Vienna, which regularly observed this during the Corona crisis, the proportion of unpaid work of women has increased enormously. This means that the imbalance between EUR 9 billion of paid and EUR 9.5 billion of unpaid work has become even greater. Women do not work or work: If they work, they may be temporary workers, they may be self-employed or they may be individuals, they are sometimes or very often precariously employed, they may be slightly employed or seeking employment, since they have no work at all. – This is exactly what this group of persons is all about. Mrs Minister, I think it is important to know exactly what this fresh start bonus is. I hear he hasn't been agreed with the trade unions and the AMS. There's an idea being thrown into the air, and no one knows how it affects. Now, as Mr Loacker has said, is this part-time fixation going on? This is alleged to be only secured for 28 weeks; thus another pot, and one more, and one more. No one knows anything exactly. Is it checked whether part-time work is really done or whether the worker has to spend more hours anyway and is used for the part-time bonus she has nothing then? I'd be very interested. In addition, we have already presented a model for young parents for longer periods, half new – you may remember –: Both reduce their full-time or working time, if previously part-time, and this is subsidized by the state. By reducing their working time, fathers can also enjoy this time promoted after the birth of a child. We have also said that if it doesn't work with summer school and other care facilities in summer – I do not trust Mr. Fäsmann anymore to stick to what he has said; now the matura rules seem to be changed again, just to give an example – the rules concerning special care time – not only those three weeks that have already been used – should be maintained for at least that long, with full entitlement to pay, until the corona crisis is over. I really wonder what many parents and especially single teachers do if they don't find any support in the nine weeks of summer holidays. I'm particularly interested in an invoice, Mrs. Minister: They have said that if a household has a net income of 3 000 euros, you get EUR 870 per child from the hardening fund. Mrs Frauenminister – I had no time to ask this in the early days – said that she was in favour of single-parents getting EUR 1,200 out of the hard-fall fund. Do you know what to earn? – A six net! I don't know any single single parent who deserves so much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e49771	Mr Süleyman Zorba is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e49797	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! The situation on the labour market is tense, especially for young people who are at the very beginning of their careers. In March 2020, unemployment among under 25 years of age was twice as high as in the previous year. Entrepreneurs warning trade union youth that there is a record unemployment in young people, a generation that will make the future difficult due to the prevailing corona crisis. Many young people are currently in a difficult situation between compulsory training and non-perspective. Many threaten to lose either the existing apprenticeship or find no one at all, so it is important to take measures to avoid having a Lost generation at the end of the day. Youth unemployment is not only a labour market problem, but also a social and health problem. There are enormous disadvantages for further life planning. I remember very well: A few years ago, when I was in the situation looking for a training place, it took 140 applications and many sleepless nights until a promise was made. At that time, the economic situation at Weitem was not as tense as today due to Corona. What needs to be done to avoid this? What needs to be done to give young people a perspective from this crisis? What do we need to train the experts of tomorrow? – A first good step was the extension of short work, which enabled many training places to be secured. It is also gratifying that for apprentices in short work from 1. In June the fee will be increased accordingly in the course of the course and in the event of completion of the course examination. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We will need to support entrepreneurs in order to create further training places. In the government programme, we have held many points that can help to break down even in this crisis situation: well-financed over-company apprenticeships to catch up with those who lose their training place, new teaching professions in the digital, climate and environmental fields, in order to create new perspectives, and also the teaching with Matura, which was discussed yesterday. This issue not only concerns this UG and not just this budget, it will also accompany us in the coming months and years. And yes, this budget is a crisis budget, and that all the more means that youth must and will be an essential part of a sustainable economic package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e49846	Next speaker: Mr Christian Ragger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e49868	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Estimated Minister! Today, I would like to draw attention to our last agenda in the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, namely the net rate of replacement. Unfortunately, we have to drill God so intensely so that the population, the Austrian population, above all, understand what we are talking about together with the SPÖ, with the other opposition parties. I recently had an interview with a representative of the European Central Bank, and he has told me an interesting story. He said there's never been as much money in the market as now. We have the highest liquidity in the history of the last 100 years, whether in America, China, Russia or Europe. This liquidity is present. But what has happened in the last ten years, since this banking crisis in 2008/2009, is that the central banks have taken on all instruments of inflation, interest rate or other instruments. That is, the only thing they've ever tied up with is to get more and more money into circulation and to produce more and more money. You can simply explain this to the population in this way: This is like a bicycle hose that you put into the sun and pumped up: You pump it up until there's a huge placer – and that's going to happen. If that happens, then there are two possibilities, namely, the possibility of massive deflation – connected with it: no more consumption, no more investment, high unemployment – or on the other hand, the variant that has been showing us Japan for 15 years, namely that we no longer have productivity and are ultimately large amounts of money in circulation. Why do I say this in advance? – To show what alternatives there would be, as we could do at European level, but also at Austrian level, without laying it on only two models, namely first on the unemployment model – everything is okay – and second on the short-term work model. One can argue and discuss what one wants to do, but one has overlooked two essential points in that one is that these people – the 1.8 million who are in unemployment or short-time work, or the 1.3 million who are in short-time work – combine one: consumer behaviour. Their task as an ÖVP, as an economic party, must be quite clear not to turn on a small screw, namely whether we now raise the net replacement rate from 55 to 70 percent or not, but the big picture to have the big picture in mind and drive the consumption behaviour. But you do not do that with your economic principles. You should think about that! [[Complementary with FPÖ and SPÖ.]] I'll give you a little example: A small secretary with me in Carinthia today is the main income earner with 1 300, 1 400 euros net, because her husband has been canceled the same day that the Corona crisis caused us restrictions. Now explain to me how you create this delta when the quit husband sits at home and only refers to unemployment money and the woman wants to close down the smaller income, which is now the bigger one at once, to return home! I can't! They have loans that have children who have expenditure to finance. They can't do that in this situation. They will do so if we help as a state, by raising this net replacement rate to 70 percent. That's why I'm appealing to you: Give us the opportunity to help the Austrian population in this way, and implement this sign together with us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e49919	Next speaker: Mrs Claudia Plasolm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e49943	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear Seers of Today's Session! The roof should be covered when the sun shines. – In recent years we have covered this roof under Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurzgewand and in an economically sunny time no new Debt made. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] We renovated our roof. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have renovated the roof, developed it well and made it safe. So Austria has a very good budgetary starting point. And now, where it storms and rains, the wind of a global pandemic blows us, keeps our roof and offers us protection. It is certainly not a solar year for us in 2020, but precisely because we have been responsible in recent years with the money of taxpayers, we can help more than other countries with their own short-term work model, with the crisis management fund for families in need or with the extension of family aid. [[Intervocations at SPÖ and NEOS]] To ensure that students do not lose the family allowance due to the limited university operation, we have introduced an additional tolerable semester. This extension of family aid is also applicable to voluntary civil servants and civil servants. – Thank you for your willingness and commitment in this difficult time! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Of course, we also ensure all existing services in the area of family and youth. A total of 7.4 billion euros are available to us this year. What do families and, in particular, young people have of it? – A large part of the budget goes to family support and child care, but also to student and apprentice-free travel and mother-child-pass examinations are financed with this, schoolbooks are provided to all students free of charge or for a low amount of self-reservance, also many advisory bodies, such as wire advice, are made possible only by this. Today we are deciding a budget in a very difficult time in our country. The Minister of Finance has already said it: The number of healthy people, the number of secure jobs and the number of lost insolvencys is decisive. - That's what we're working for. We covered our roof when the sun shined. So we will get out of this stormy time better than others and create our comeback in Austria earlier. Finally, let me say one more thing: We do a lot to support families, workers, self-employed people in this situation and at the same time to boost the economy through investment. However, the largest economic package is in the hands of each individual: Buy from regional companies, enjoy Austrian food – including in our gastronomy – make a holiday in Austria! In this way you support countless employees in the businesses in your area. Only in this way can our economy and later our labour market come back into swing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e50013	Next speaker: Mr Michael Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e50037	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If I listen to the ÖVP delegates – and I have now made this very important – then I think above all of one thing: Come back from your parallel universe! [[Call the SPÖ:Yes!]] Come back to the reality in which all the other people in Austria are caught! [[Congratulation with NEOS and FPÖ.]] They are caught mainly because the things you announce do not come to people. I would like to speak to the family budget, and that is the ideal area to show how little fruit your policy carries. The budget is in terms of content, technical and even in terms of how it can only be imagined to be rejected. In the 2020 budget, for example, the Flaf, which accounts for a large part of this family budget, is expected to increase by 5 percent compared to 2019. If you expect growth of 5 percent and the number of employees does not fall, then the budget assumes that the service providers will be increased, either one or the other will be budgeted there. Against Austria, a infringement procedure is under way because of the indexing of family aid, as a careful merchant or merchant, that is, as a federal government, one would have to make a provision of 120 million euros – this is not found in the budget. The family advisory services, which are currently often voluntaryly taking over the work, explaining the hardness funds and helping with the application, are subdivided. They expected and hoped for 15 million euros, but did not get them. The family budget is currently not a matter of helping families and not of finding commercial care. I would, however, like to come to another issue, which is related to the question of where money comes from and where there is none: the Family Hard Fund. Mrs Minister, you know, I have already mentioned this at the last committee meeting: The situation is incredible! ==References== On April 15, people can make applications, families in distress – and those in need on April 15th. In April, the request has not yet been received. I'm not talking about money at all, I'm just talking about an answer. Her Secretary-General said in the last Family Committee that only complete applications would be answered and that about 50 percent were incomplete – all those who made an incomplete request have been waiting since 15. April and will never get an answer! They may have submitted four applications, perhaps four times incomplete, and no one communicates with them. Of the 600 people I met in a forum, so far a family has got the money – one! All of them have between 15 and 20. The proposal was submitted on 4 April. Your house speaks of a five-digit number of requests. I don't know if it's 10,000 or 90 000, I just know the people who report don't get the money. These people are watching today, and I would like an answer from you today: When's the feedback coming, when's the money? Today, we also want to make a contribution to the fact that these people are actually being helped. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs. Minister, it's up to you: Many people are currently building on the fact that you have your house under control and are running well – we as NEOS will support you according to strength. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[11:43]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e50182	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Barbara Neßler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e50209	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! The Covid-19 crisis has far-reaching effects, not just health. We have now debated for two days that they are threatening existences, that many people have lost their job, and that there are uncertainties among companies. We have worked out the support and assistance for cases of hardship, which need to be continuously improved and remedied again and again. The crisis has particularly affected families and, above all, women, because it is often women who do double and triple work: Work that is often considered to be self-evident or not perceived at all, such as housework, family work or care work. Many families have reached their limits, they are very, very exhausted – fathers and mothers who have lost their job, children who have been torn out of their usual lives, young people who are struggling with fears of the future – and it was therefore right and important that we have extended the entitlement period of the family allowance, that there is the family hard balance that is absolutely necessary, and that there is easy access to the maintenance advance. We must not forget that the families and the children are our social foundation, and if this foundation is moving, then the whole society is moving! Yes, the measures put in place were correct and important, but – and I say that here in the House in all clarity – these investments will not be enough, neither for families nor for children! We will have to ask ourselves how much we value the future of young people and children with and without disabilities, and we will have to ask this question again and again over the next few months. Yes, I know young people don't want to hear beautification, no contemplation, no empty words. They want to find attention and hearing, they want actions and concrete answers to questions, even though the answers to these questions often do not exist. They are also included in the economic measures. We must not overlook the rapid increase in youth unemployment, the massive difficulty of finding teaching places, as must the psychosocial components. The same applies to violence on the part of children who are now on their own through restricted contact. To get it to the point: Children and young people are not affected by the crisis, but they are in the middle of the crisis! The long-term consequences, long-term costs will be devastating if we do not act, and there is sufficient funding in this area in the next budget. There is an urgent need for an increase, as conflict potential in this area has increased during the quarantine period. I would like to thank all child, youth and family organisations for their vital work during the crisis, but also our politicians in the municipalities and federal states, who are always working for improvements. Yes, beyond the budget, we need further plans, planning security, additional assistance and measures in the social field, because we do not want a social crisis to follow up on the health crisis. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e50243	Next speaker: Mrs Petra Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e50267	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! High house! The impact of the crisis has hit many people in Austria hard, the financial losses caused by short-term work and unemployment are clearly felt in families, and there are very great fears about the future. Our families have given the best in the crisis and they continue to do it – but they have also believed in the government's promise: “It costs what it wants”, it “will help quickly and unbureaucratically.” The corona family hard work has also been announced as such rapid and unbureaucratic support, but the promised help does not come to people. – I receive news from desperate families that they have not yet received information or money on their account. Mrs Minister, the families need the support from this fund now, they need the payout now and not at some point! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why, together with the NEOS, we are proposing that Mr Bernhard, because the families now need immediate help. In these difficult times, people then also contact the family counsellors to get help there. However, the predecessor of the current minister has already cut the budget by EUR 1 million for the family advisory services. A massive uproar of the umbrella association then caused it to compensate 50 percent of the reduction from the budget of the family resort, which still corresponded to a reduction of half a million euros. During the debate in the Committee you said, Mrs. Minister, the family advisory services received more money this year than in the past few years. However, the fact is that the umbrella association has received the message from the Ministry that only EUR 12.6 million will be budgeted again in 2020. Therefore, there can be no mention of a budget increase in 2020. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In the sense of our families, I seek consent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[11:50]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e50398	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Elisabeth Scheucher-Pichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e50423	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! I regret that from the sides of the opposition all that is happening for families in Austria is so badly spoken. Austria is traditionally a family-friendly country, and I know that it is precisely the Federal Minister who has this in mind. You can still do more – no question. We are in a very difficult situation at the moment, but in this crisis, the families, the boys and the old ones have shown how much they hold together. That's why they need our full respect. But it happened very, very much. I mention the family bonus; I come to speak once again on the corona family hard balance, which is taught with 30 million euros – Mrs Minister, thank you! You also said in committee that if there are problems when delays occur, everyone can contact your ministry. I have already heard a lot of positive things that families have said that they have been helped very quickly and unbureaucratically. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Since Mrs Heinisch-Hosek meant that the unpaid family work would not be assessed accordingly: We agreed that we are doing a big study, a time-consuming study, a child-cost study. [[Interlocutory call from Mr Heinisch-Hosek.]] There is a committee in the Ministry of Justice that develops a new right of maintenance. We need to solve the question of double residence and much more. Yes, family has changed over the last decades, and we have to address that. Family has become more diverse. The working world has changed, and therefore there are new challenges again and again, especially in family policy. I would like to focus briefly on another issue: There is 1 billion euros for the municipalities. As discussed today, this will create many opportunities to improve childcare, and I really appeal to the communities and countries: We need You're coming! Let me give you an example: Since the 1980s, we have been providing flexible, mobile child care for children from childhood to 10 years of age from Monday to Saturday without prior registration. This is a project of the state capital Klagenfurt together with the relief plant. Throughout party borders, this has been positively evaluated and expanded for decades. That's what we need. It's true: If the kindergarten is locked at 4:00 p.m. and the parents have to work until 8:00 p.m., it will be useless. We need new answers to a new time in which families and working worlds take place differently, and we also need more opportunities for women to buy their own pension. If work and family are well compatible, it will continue to be good for families, and I believe that is our goal. – Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e50483	Next speaker: Mrs Edith Mühlberghuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e50507	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians! We are now here the third day and discuss the budget, and as it is in many other areas, it is also in the area of the family: The budget is anything but safe and sustainable. It is to be expected that it is not to be expected, that is also expected in the family ministry, and you too, Mrs Family Minister, have already mentioned it in the Committee. It is not sustainable, and the original expectations will be negatively balanced. Especially affected is the Flaf, the family compensation fund – which pays a lot – because the measures taken in the course of the corona crisis cause less revenue due to the loss of service providers due to declining employment. The extremely high level of unemployment – it is by far the highest in the Second Republic – will not be reduced even in the next few months, it will increase, and this will also tear a huge hole in the Flaf, in the Family Allowance Fund, with which, as I have already mentioned, the family allowance, the childcare allowance and the maintenance advance payments will be financed. On maintenance advance payments: You will now be budgeted at 137 million euros. You don't know if that's true, the numbers aren't so concrete at all, we've heard today in the early days that there's a lot wrong and not right. I am now starting from the number of 2019: 134 million euros have been paid in maintenance advance payments. 89 million euros have returned as repayments, and 45 million euros cannot be charged. That means, fact is: The state remains at a cost of 45 million euros. This money cannot be charged. If one assumes that the unemployment rate is rising – and according to the forecasts, experts are already talking about it – then these 137 million euros for maintenance advance payments are very thin budgeted. In this context, the Commission's proposal for a Indeed, crisis-related unemployment must also be expected to result in fewer repayments than can be claimed and returned to date. Of course they are missing, and it is not possible to name these numbers exactly. For families who are in need, for parents who have become innocently unemployed, who do not know at the moment how to continue with them, who are afraid to lose their job, the 30 million euros, Mrs Bundesminister, who has provided you with the corona family hard balance, can only be the first step. They're talking about making available: When are you finally starting the payouts? My colleague Bernhard has already mentioned this: There are big problems. Many parents wait for the money, and the money is not paid. Mrs Bundesminister, please try and see that there is something going on and that the payouts finally begin! Above all, these families would benefit from the Austrian thousands' voucher required by us for every Austrian and every Austrian from the grandparent to the grandparents, and at the same time, of course, the marode economy would also be stimulated. Ladies and gentlemen! The drastic measures that closed schools and care facilities during the Corona crisis have presented a huge challenge for families, especially mothers. Many parents work in their home office, care for their grandparents without any support from the grandparents, and help the schoolboys in their homework. They take care of their grandparents and relatives, go shopping for them, and many even provide neighborhood assistance. You're holding together. In this exceptional situation, families are burdened several times and really do extraordinary things. That is why I put forward the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I love the families, and I hope you too! I would ask you to support and agree to this request. Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[12:00]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e50666	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Nikolaus Prinz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e50693	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Families and their concerns have become more conscious in recent months. As a result of the Corona pandemic, childcare facilities and schools had to be closed. School and child care at home when perhaps at the same time home work of mother and/or Father poses great challenges for the families. This was seen differently. While there were families who felt more common time than quite positive, this has become a burden in some families. Compatibility of family and profession is not always easy and a great challenge. As valuable as the public offers are, we should always focus on the freedom of choice of families. Families are the germ cell of a society. Parents usually know best what their children need. Public offers should be supported and not precipitated. The 2020 budget is very good for families in Austria. However, it is not only about the financial compensation, which Austria is in the top European field, but also about the social recognition of family work, and we are quite honest: If it is not your own grandchildren or children who disturb or otherwise notice the rest of lunch, the appreciation decreases relatively quickly. There has been a change in the city and country. Children need guidance, guidance and tolerance to grow up. This means that education must also provide a certain framework. We cannot postpone education in school or childcare facilities, but the education must happen at home. Where there are problems, we need to support, and there are offers. If there are cases of problem, the following shall apply: The more one supports, the cheaper it is not only the taxpayer, but it is also much better for young people if we use earlier support. Overall, you can say calm conscience: Families and their affairs are really in the best hands at this Federal Government, with Federal Minister Christine Aschbacher and Federal Chancellor Kurz.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e50730	Next speaker: Mr Markus Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e50762	I'm allowed to focus on work again. The budget discussion promotes so many curious details. There has been a post-planning shift from Minister Anschober to you, Mrs. Minister. 180 planning sites have been added to your home. The answer to the question of how many people have actually left Minister Anschhober is 177. Mrs. Minister, your Mrs. Secretary-General said: Arrived at my home in 199. – Only in order to know how we are opposed and what quality the answers we receive in budget consultations. That's what I think everyone can make a rhyme. The tension is also: These plantations have been upgraded on the grounds that a Bureau is now needed within the UG 25. You know, this is, I think, the problem: People no longer need administration and bureaucracy, people actually need concrete support in their problems. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So that it may not be so obvious that there are so many new planning sites there, one also shortens. But from my point of view, in a completely wrong area: One further shortens at the work inspectorate's office. I believe that we are all getting what are currently some of the conditions in the labour market. If you are persecuting Laudamotion – under which conditions people should work at once – then I believe it does not need less, but it will need more labour inspectors in the future to ensure that working conditions continue to be good for people in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] – I still do not understand, Mr colleague – and this is what you can do to your colleagues – why the Chamber of Commerce has agreed to such a collective agreement at all. I'm still shaken today. Maybe you could do that in your ranks. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, in order not to criticise us, I should like to make a motion for a resolution which shows how to resolve the problems that exist in the labour market: [[Quoted print version removed]] In order for all of this to work – that is, more support for older people in the labour market, training people who are poorly qualified, support for young people – people need to take care of it. That's why we called for 500 additional employees at the AMS. I can only say: The budget debate has not given us the impression that there is actually this. A reduction in staff was put in place. I believe that what has been decided together with the colleagues of the ÖVP should be implemented in the crisis right now – and we also expect the chancellor to speak in this regard. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[12:06]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e50949	The application is under negotiation. Mrs. Christine Aschbacher has now spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e50974	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers! As we all know, the Corona crisis caught us massively over two months ago, here in Austria as well as internationally with full weight and on all levels, and there is no one who would not have caught it. Accordingly, it has also affected us greatly in my department with work, family and youth or in the areas of responsibility with the two subdivisions UG 20, work, and UG 25, family and youth. In these two sub-divisions, we are therefore strongly required to return to a new normality even now in a comeback for Austria, in the gradual re-entry process. [[Abg. Lightness:... back to a new normality!]] Accordingly, I would like to give an overview of these two areas and also briefly explain the concrete measures that we have put in the crisis. We have until Sunday, the 15. In March, there was a falling unemployment rate and a high employment rate of 3.8 million people. ==References== March the international crisis caught us massively and with full weight. As a result, the preliminary peak of the number of unemployed was also 13. 588 205 people who were in unemployment or in training. Since then, with a slight flattening of the unemployment curve, we have seen a trend in the right direction, at the beginning of this week it was 523,346 people who have been reported for work or who are in training. That is about 65 000 people less in unemployment than at the height of the crisis. I would like to tell you that the placement of each and every individual by the employees of the labour market service Austria is a step in the right direction. There is also courage and perspective that there is work for different people in different areas, for the different target groups. We give the best – step by step – every day to support. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For the time of the crisis, we have quickly put in place the corona short-term work model, with which we could hold over 1.3 million people in employment, and I would like to thank all of you and the social partners for this. On the one hand, it is provided with a job guarantee during short work and a month after that, but also with fixed income – no one gets less than 80 percent of the salary – which we can guarantee. There are a lot of feedback, on the one hand, from the employees who are in short-time work, but also from the many entrepreneurs who have applied for short-time work for their employees. You say it's very important that you know on the one hand: I return to my workplace, but also: I'm going to work, even if it's in a reduced way, because it can now be driven up step by step. This is the instrument of short work that is so important for the crisis and now also for the comeback by working more where it is possible. As a result, I would like to thank all entrepreneurs, but also all the employees who are now in short-time work and who are also working more where it is possible: my heartfelt thanks at this point. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] As has been said before – and also by the Minister of Finance: Of course, the crisis has messed up our originally planned budget. We have gone into the budget with other forecasts, and the forecasts for this year are still very volatile, where there is no basis for us to stick to. We therefore decide, please, this week on this budget, in which we have taken important milestones, with united forces within the Federal Government. In the UG 20, work, around 8.4 billion euros are available for 2020. The current developments in the labour market have not yet been recorded in the budget, but we have, of course, taken note of them, namely the increased expenditure on unemployment benefit and also for those in emergency aid. At this point I would like to express my thanks to all the employees of the labour market service who have the mammoth task of dealing with the high number of requests for short work and to disbursing together with the Austrian Federal Accounting Agency, while at the same time guaranteeing this high number of people who are looking for work, in the framework of insurance and in payment of unemployment benefit. – Thank you very much for that. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] My aim as Minister of Labour is also to provide sufficient and sufficient money for the labour market instruments at this particular time. Accordingly, the budget will also provide EUR 1.2 billion for AMS funding this year. On the one hand, what we announced in February includes EUR 50 million for older jobseekers and additional money for integration aid, for job-related qualifications, but also for job-based foundations that are able to carry out qualification directly in companies with people. It is therefore a mix of measures for various target groups concerned and for various sectors concerned. This also includes the over-company teaching. It was only yesterday that I was in direct contact with the people working in youth at work. They say how important and right it is to pursue their education and hope to get the apprenticeship in the economy in close relationship. They were very creative even now because of the crisis, have changed very quickly to e-learning and, for example, to the family resort, to the family section, the Digi4School application used and found very creative, very fast solutions. The funds also apply to women's programmes, to impulse programmes for businesses or to the New Digital Skills programme. In particular, it is important to provide a package for young people together with my colleagues in the Federal Government. The recently decided increase in emergency aid to the level of unemployment benefit will take effect in June. People get this higher amount with the June payout. We also communicated another accent yesterday, namely the restart bonus. It is about the possibility in various sectors and companies, where the economic situation is not yet full-time, to reintroduce people who may not yet be able to work full-time, but need support. We said: Yes, we also support the sectors where full-time employment is not yet possible, so that people can find work again, get back into work and be in employment. This must be supported by a disbursement of around 80 per cent of the reference before unemployment. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The importance of labour inspectors has already been addressed a few times. Over 300 labour inspectors have also been very important in consulting activities, especially by telephone or online, during the crisis, so that workers' and workers' protection is guaranteed during the crisis, but above all in order to work together with entrepreneurs during the re-arrangement of workers' and workers' protection packages – how does it look like a shift shop, how can the intervals in the breaks be observed? – so that health at the workplace continues to be the focus and measures can be observed. My warm thanks goes to all those who have participated there, continue to participate and engage daily. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I can guarantee you that, together with the many experts from my department, with the economic research institutes, as well as with the other stakeholders and in discussions with the social partners, the federal states, we are looking at the labour market and its development very carefully so that we can say which target groups are particularly affected, which measures are needed to bring people back to work as quickly as possible. It is also about creating new jobs, for example within the framework of the municipal billions, in the trilogue: Health has the highest priority, with regard to economic developments and labour market developments, we are constantly working on it in the dialogue. I tell you, we give every day and very often also at night the best to do everything for it. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Since the beginning of the Corona crisis, there has been a massive impact on all families in this country. No matter in which constellation the family is living and where children live, it has been challenging since the beginning of the crisis. At this point I would like to thank all those who have worked together with us, namely the parents, the mothers and fathers, especially the children and young people, but also the grandparents who have also accepted this social Distancing. I know it was and isn't easy. I have three children myself and can tell you: In addition to the very many women and mothers who now of course do outstanding and great things, there are also fathers who are now active in particularly challenging situations – as is my husband, who is caring for our three children and who has come through the crisis without the support of grandparents. My thanks go to all the grandparents who have carried this social Distancing. This was not easy, especially if they are very supportive, are in close relationship with the grandchildren and, of course, follow their development. I would like to thank the families in all forms who have done great things in the crisis and continue to endure. – A warm thank you! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] As a family minister, I can assure you: As a whole, we are there for the families in Austria. We have used many different instruments during the crisis and now again at the comeback of Austria, according to the family funds that have already been addressed today, the Family Hard Fund and the Family Crisis Fund. The special care period was taken differently by many families, namely not only three weeks in a piece, but also very well in the flexibility that can be divided with half or all days in order not only to create this double burden, but to create multiple burden with home schooling, home office, not only to care for the children at home, but also to be related to cooking, of course also to being together, to have quality time and to live through the encounters even more respectfully with each other. That is my great thanks to all those who have lovingly endured this. Family expert Jesper Juul says the best parents he knows make up to 20 mistakes a day. We can therefore also be proud that we have done so well through the crisis and even now in the gradual resumption process. Let's not be too strict with ourselves! For the many students, we have introduced the tolerance semester, which guarantees the duration of the family allowance, and also for the volunteers who have volunteered for civil service or as military soldiers, the family allowance is guaranteed. At the beginning of the crisis, many parents reported to us and asked: How do we do with the mother-child-pass examinations now? I don't trust you to go to the doctor! – We responded immediately and, of course, made sure that the child care allowance is provided, even if one cannot prove that one was in the investigations. We ask you to continue to be in contact with the doctors. With regard to municipal billions: It is now being invested, including in childcare facilities, and the municipalities and the countries are also called for in cooperation with us. A warm thanks to all those who work daily to care for our children well, to all the educators of this country! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In order to ensure that the maintenance, which may be more difficult to pay by unemployment or even by short work, is unbureaucratic, until 30. In June, the maintenance advance shall be approved without an application for execution at the Court of First Instance. The family advisory services – which is a special concern to me – are also doing great things in the consultation. It is so important to know during this multiple load: I can call someone, there are experts who listen to me! – It’s not that easy when you take care of the children all day long to find a few quiet minutes to get in touch at all, but all those who work there every day were very innovative with telephone consulting and also did video consulting. It is now important to re-enter personal consultations on the processing of this crisis period with the children. A warm thank you to all those who are engaged in the family advisory services! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] With regard to the budget, I would like to say that all family benefits are guaranteed and secured. We are a family country and we can also be proud of it. Nearly 10 percent of our total budget is spent on family benefits and benefits families. In the UG 25 around 7.4 billion euros are available for family and youth in 2020. These are divided into two global budgets, namely the compensation fund for family allowances and family policy measures and youth. The following areas are subdivided into the detailed budget: Family allowances, childcare allowances, travel aid for schools, schoolbooks and transfers of social security funds and maintenance advances. I have always said that it is a particular concern for me to meet the challenge of providing care in the summer, to stand up for it and also to guarantee that it is possible to carry it out. As will be seen, we will announce in the next few days in the course of a guide so that planning security is given. Thank you to all those who are already organizing and subdividing in the countries, but also in the communities. There are a lot of volunteers involved. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] As far as young people are concerned, I am in very close contact. During the crisis, but also now at the comeback for Austria, it is important to be in close contact with the young people, to inform, but also to advise. Accordingly, for youth policy measures, 8.9 million euros are available this year, which are also the funding provided by the Federal Youth Promotion Act, which includes expenditure on youth policy projects, but also payments to advisory bodies, such as the Extremism Advisory Centre. I would like to highlight three examples: the Austrian Youth Portal, which has also provided great performance during the crisis, for example, with the youthful reporters who have prepared and made available the information so to speak at peer level – I have two nephews who are on their way to puberty, who have always been happy to use the information online and always knew what is going on in the course of the Corona crisis – and, on the other hand, the Council-on-wire hotline, which we may all know from our youth age, when we see that there was increased support during the crisis. That's where you know: I can call someone, experts listen to me. As a further example, I would like to mention the youth organisations, namely the overview of the Federal Youth Office, which was always guaranteed, but also the voluntary contribution, the voluntary commitment, which so many young people now bring in during the crisis, but also continue. I'm just thinking about all the young people on the platform. The food helpers have reported to pack so that we can eat our fresh vegetables and fruits and give them to our children. By expanding the digital youth work, it was important – even during the crisis – to see that where we have already invested it was easier to keep access to young people. I would ask you not to stop now, but to go ahead and work for the young people in Austria! There are challenging weeks behind us, but also challenging weeks and months before us, and accordingly I ask you all: If we continue together, we move on with united forces, let us tighten our sleeves! We have a lot to do in the labour market. We give our best daily and very often overnight – with the many experts, with the teams in our homes, but also together with the job-seekers and at the same time the people who are in short work, as well as the many entrepreneurs – in order to move forward again in the trilogue, with health as the top priority, economic policy and labour market policy with united forces. I believe it is also important that we continue to use our empathy – the image of the “watcher of empathy” at the bottom of the entrance – that we continue to feel in the various situations, situations of life, phases of life, but also in the various areas and that we continue to progress with empathy and take the right measures at the right time. With united forces, we will continue to endure, but there will be everything for it, even if it is different, to become good again. – Accordingly, thanks also for every single contribution from you and all the good!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e51080	Next speaker: Mrs Gudrun Kugler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e51102	Madam President. Dear Federal Minister! I come back in this sub-division on the subject of family and I would like to begin with a quote from a German liberal intellectual, namely former Federal President Richard von Weizsäcker. He said about the family: A family will always have to endure heavy loads. “And yet it always proves itself to be the most important source of our strength. In it we learn the test of life to exist.” Those are strong words. The green family spokesperson Barbara Neßler also said that the family is the foundation of our society. We saw in the Corona crisis that it was true, in the Corona crisis the family proved itself. The family has picked up the lockdown, and yet one has the impression that in the political debate the family is often pushed into a negative context and it says: Poverty, overload or violence. There are difficulties in politics, but we know that family is so much more. Yes, politics tackles these difficulties, and this is clearly underlined in this budget and in the objectives of its impact. Mr. Bernhard – I don't see him now! –: It's not a parallel universe. I am pleased that NEOS and Mr Bernhard have today also acknowledged that the Family Hard Fund, which we have set up for the Corona crisis, is a good thing that it is a great help for families and that it fills up exactly this gap, that is, what is missing. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Not for everyone!]] [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] I would like to say another word on violence in the family. The Minister for Women spoke briefly today, and I would like to stress it once again: We have seen in recent months that there has been little increase in the ads or the bans on violence in the family. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] According to the figures mentioned today by the Minister of Women, there were 936 cases before the crisis in January and in April, when the whole month was Lockdown, there were 1,075. That's 1 075 cases too much, but I just want to say that the family has proven itself in the crisis. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A last thought on the impact targets in the budget: The Institute of Demography of the Austrian Academy of Sciences has recently published a study showing that children's desire and realization are very different, namely by up to 0.5 children. Now you don't have to imagine 0.5 children, but statistically this is a large number. And this is particularly marked in the cities. I believe that if we look at Austria and the regions in Austria today, we already see regions with declining population development. That means that doctors and schools, but also supermarkets stop their services because they say there are not enough people at all. I think we should also talk about this in our Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A valuable discourse about family is a source of courage. A family-oriented budget relieves families, for the family is the “most important source of our strength” – to return to Richard von Weizsäcker – in which “we are the test of life”. – Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e51159	Next speaker: Mr Peter Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e51184	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! Minister Aschbacher! I would like to start with you today with a praise. I couldn't convince your colleague, Minister of Economic Affairs Schramböck, yesterday to take the mask, but I'm glad you, as Minister of Labour, put a sign of normality and sit here without a mask. I like that very much! I hope all your colleagues will follow you as soon as possible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They are a much more pleasant sight without a mask than with a mask. - I can add that. But now back to the hard facts: It was a dramatic meeting in the Committee yesterday. We are scratching at the limit of 1.9 million people in unemployment or in short work. Mrs Graf, because you have explained this so explicitly once again: These 1.9 million people in Austria and their families have a common attitude, they have much less money in their wallet or account – 1.9 million people, including families! Mrs Minister, that's the central point. I think that you should be much more active, because the economic disaster is disastrous. You have to think about something, not a placebo! Madam Minister, I cannot spare you the accusation: At that time, in mid-March, you started the plan for short-time work with EUR 400 million. Now, I think we're 13 billion euros. You and the government obviously have a problem with experts, because if experts have called you 400 million euros and we are now at 13 billion euros, I can figure out about what can be thought of by the rest of the experts. Economic recovery secures jobs. I believe that this is the most important thing you should tackle, Mrs Minister. Today you mentioned the comeback of Austria several times in your speech, which is probably the new marketing Gag of the government. We have already heard many such sayings: “Taste it what it wants”, we save every human life and, and, and. [[Call the ÖVP:Well and!]] The new saying – obviously by a very good advertising agency – is now: the comeback of Austria. Mrs Minister, if you ask a sportsman about comeback, he will tell you two things why he is considering a comeback at all: perfect preparation and the absolute will to get it back. Both things, Mrs Minister, I do not see in your ministry and unfortunately God in the government either. What can't work at all is a comeback with fear. No one will try a comeback on the strand with the fear in the back of the head. That is what you must and should do, also in the interests of your main task of the labour market, quite urgently. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I have to say it again. [[Keeping a document in height]] This will be decided by the government today, which is the amendment to the budget. We also discuss old numbers with you. Mrs Minister, what is now being presented – and it also concerns the labour market – can simply be torn. [[The speaker is tearing down the document he has kept up to date.]] Everything inside here does not at all correspond to reality, it also does not correlate in any way with the programs you offer, i.e. with hardening funds, short work and, and, and. If you count this together, you come to 48 billion euros, there are 20 billion euros. I am not yet talking about the revenue we will not have. That is, as you are working on this amendment, so unfortunately the government's work in the crisis is also. You left a bloodbath on the labour market, we have the social crisis. Please, Mrs. Minister, get in the way! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e51245	Next speaker: Mrs Corinna Scharzenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e51267	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! At the beginning of my speech, let me say one thing: It is a time of crisis that must not be forgotten, and in this health crisis, the protection of the Austrian population is a top priority. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] At this time of crisis, our Federal Government is doing excellent work that is promised beyond borders, so that Austria is well placed in the international comparison. [[Abg. Kickl: I'm waiting for the...! It will soon come to your attention!]] – Mr Kickl, please let me speak, I will always let you speak out! – And all these attempts to reverse the virus into a political mesh or to seek appeals against the Republic really upset me. [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, yes!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] But since the virus has no address of delivery, it seems to many to be the only right way. - Anyway. Much more important than the search for the guilty would be to look for solutions, so I come to the content of my real speech. A solution for the maintenance of many businesses was the use of Homeoffice during the crisis. Many responsible people have also noticed that their employees work equally efficiently from home and that meetings and meetings can also be held via telephone, zoom or Skype. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Move it.]] With this stronger commitment to home office solutions, rural regions can again be considered as a food point. In this way we can help to reduce the population decline in these regions. The young generation has precisely these demands on the employer so that its food point is back on the land. This means that the framework conditions must be met. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] We take advantage of home office opportunities, we use broadband development and we use advanced technical possibilities as an opportunity for rural areas! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e51341	Next speaker: Mrs Eva Maria Holzleitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e51362	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen. As school book action and school leavers were previously praised as children and youth measures of the Federal Government, I can only thank one member of the Federal Government for the opposition: Thank you, Bruno Kreisky, for achieving these great measures! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let's get to the subject: Children's and youth organisations really make an excellent social contribution. We've heard that many times before. They contribute to all measures, they volunteer for neighbourhood assistance, civil service et cetera, have on-line discussions and other digital formats that enable participation, and over-fulfilled year after year the goals of the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This also analyses the budget service. During the lockdown, the children's rights were also heavily restricted. We must not forget that children also have rights. I would like to remind you of the UN Children's Rights Hearing in Geneva, which has recently taken place. The List of Issues really shows us some construction sites where we must continue to fight for children's rights, what we still need to implement, so that they really become effective in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why the ruling association with child and youth organizations makes me a little sad. Since 2001, there has been no index adjustment of federal youth funding. That means a loss of 40 percent of the financial resources, and that is really a very, very big gap. At the same time, many activities are still on hold, such as vacation camps of the pathfinders, children's friends, red falcons, because simply the specifications are still missing, whether and how such camps can be carried out. In the appreciation of the voluntary commitment, we really agree by the bank that this is something valuable, something great. In the case of a lip confession, it is simply not allowed to stay there, which is why I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In particular, I would like to invite the Greens to go there. In 2014, a perhaps still known colleague, Julian Schmid, submitted a similar request. So it would be a really good action to go there. I would like to stress: When is the time to fight for children's rights, if not now? And when, if not now, is the time to adapt child and youth support accordingly? Thank you. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Shetty.]] [[12:42]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e51499	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Alexandra Tanda. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e51524	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Values Advisors! It has already been said by my previous speakers, and I can support it all. This budget provides the necessary framework for family policy measures. I would particularly like to highlight the detailed budget for maintenance advances from the Global Budget. Family is not just the classic model mother, father, child; Family is also the single parent and sometimes the single parent who is dependent on maintenance payments. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fire brigades.]] Because of the corona crisis, the partly difficult situation of single parents became particularly clear again. In the most unfortunate case, both parents lose their job indebtedness, and in addition to their own income, the urgently needed maintenance money is missing. Therefore, it was the only right way for the Federal Government to decide at this time to facilitate access to maintenance advances. I would like to thank you very much for this on behalf of all the single parents concerned, including single parents, for they are also there. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The budgeting of the maintenance advances on the part of the federal government of around 138 million euros is particularly important for our children and in the interests of our children. I would like to stress that it is 2.5 million euros above the success of 2019 – so No cuts. These funds are essential in order to cover the necessary expenditure for children. Of course, it is necessary to maintain, on the other hand, a consistent and targeted contribution of approximately 65 percent of the advances made, according to the economic situation. In my perception, the budget bears a clear manuscript for the benefit of our children. We are thus creating the necessary financial security, and I would like to thank you very much once again.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e51575	Next speaker: Mr Maximilian Köllner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e51596	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! When I look back on my childhood, I feel especially grateful to my parents and siblings for being able to grow up in an intact family. Madam Minister, there are, unfortunately, other cases too, so there is an urgent need in some areas of family policy. First of all, and I have already mentioned this to you in the Committee: As a result of the Corona crisis, the budget for maintenance advances has to be increased urgently, as many people are currently unable to comply with payments. In addition, you have to take action in the settlement, as those affected need the money even more urgently in times like this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Push Please don't leave this on the long bench, otherwise You're depriving these people! Secondly, When small children become careless, victims of domestic violence or parents fight with their drug addiction, crisis - care parents jump in and give the children confidence and love. However, compensation is not high, there is only after-sales allowance. That is, clothes, medicine, food, toys that all pay for crisis care parents themselves. The Ibiza Coalition of ÖVP and FPÖ shook a law out of the sleeve last year, by which many crisis caretakers no longer receive money at all, because they would only get it after 90 days. Dear colleagues of the ÖVP, this is not a help, but a shame that you realize when you consider that children are on average only six to eight weeks in their emergency family. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This law must therefore be repaired at the earliest possible speed. Parents are entitled to the allowance as early as the first day. This judgment was also passed by the Supreme Court. So please, Mrs Minister, be grateful that there are people who have such a big heart, and you will quickly become active in the field! Finally, let me have a little sidestep in the area of care, because Minister Anschhober is already here: Care and care, especially of older people, present many families with organizational, financial, but also emotional challenges. In Burgenland, for example, Landesführer Hans Peter Doskozil, in cooperation with the competent Landesrat Illedits, has created an offer that caregivers can be placed net at the country at the minimum wage of 1,700 euros. This is a family policy milestone set mainly for three reasons: first, to ensure social security for these persons; second, to enable the needy person to stay at home; and third, to provide additional staff for the care sector in the medium term by means of training. ==References== The Burgenland has courageously taken a new path in the field of care. I think it is high time that the Federal Government took an example and went new ways to meet the demands of the present and the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e51651	Mrs Selma Yildirim spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e51675	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In his speech, Mr Loacker said that public assistance in connection with the short-term work arrangements does not comply with the rules. It's literally called: “Famies and are discovered during the checks.” – That’s wrong. The right thing is: There was a routine control by the financial police covered by the Federal Tax Code. There have been findings, but no violations of legislation and no errors have been detected. Mr Loacker, you are a social politician at NEOS, the Liberals. I would nevertheless ask you, even if you are with the Liberals, not to defame an institution that has done important things, especially in the crisis – yes! – and not to get into miscredit. [[Abg. Loacker: You okay? That's the question!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e51736	Next speaker is Mrs Bettina Zopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e51760	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectator at home in front of the TV screens! But above all, dear workers! I don't know if you followed the National Council session carefully on Tuesday, but one thing has been remembered: Mr Heinisch-Hosek, in her speech yesterday, once again called for the increase in unemployment benefit, and trade union colleague Muchich has now applied for the increase for the sixth time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Deputies Heinisch-Hosek and Kollross:Right!]] This claim is understandable to me as an employee representative. However, I am not really strange, so I know that a social state cannot work that way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Today's demands are the taxpayers of tomorrow. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek:... tax!]] This is hard-earned money from the Austrians. We have to deal with this carefully. I think it would be appropriate to reveal the new motto of the SPÖ: Land of the mountains, land of fields, who labours, hot to Pecka! – It can't be! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Silvan: Incredible!]] [[Call the SPÖ: Madness!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross.]] Austria is a social state, and anyone who gets into an emergency is supported. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] I myself worked for 15 years in the social office of a market community. Austria has supported all those who, for whatever reason, cannot provide themselves before Corona. This was only possible because many people have gone to work in our country, paid taxes, and that should be our goal now. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Tell him...!]] [[Abg. Kollross:... in March... unemployed...!]] Dear trade union colleagues from SPÖ! The model of short work has been developed by you together with the economy. What sign do you now want to put with the increase in unemployment benefit? [[Abg. Greiner: Incredible!]] As an employee representative, I am quite clear about this: Work must pay off! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] [[Call the SPÖ: Unbelievable!]] Their demands are simply covered and irresponsible to our children and grandchildren. With this budget we secure numerous projects that ensure high employment after the crisis. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The ÖVP represents a close-up between employers, workers and agriculture. [[Abg. Belakovich:... the crisis is over!]] [[Abg. Kollross: We are God thank you...!]] In contrast to the opposition, the population understands: [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] Work is perspective, work is life's content. That's what the Federal Government stands for. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We will do everything we can to ensure that, after the crisis, as many people as possible have a job again!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e51993	The next item is the speech by Mr Andreas Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e52014	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I may, at the end of the debate on UG 20, work, and UG 25, family and youth, an amendment tabled by Mr Gabriel Obernosterer, Mag. Dr. Jakob Schwarz, BA, colleagues and colleagues on the draft federal law on the approval of the federal proposal for 2020, including Covid-19 crisis management measures, Federal Finance Act 2020, including investments in 55 of the supplements. [[Abg. Lighten up: Is still in time!]] - Thank you for the note. [[Abg. Lightness: Please!]] Before explaining the change in the basic guidelines, I should like to point out in principle that I am debating the previous debate on this amendment, apologies, on the amendment – there has already been a debate on the Rules of Procedure today – in fact – which concept do I use now? – for ridiculous thought. [[Abg. Kollross:... to the amendment!]] This is a maximum oppositionist and a maximum storm in the water glass, and I can also justify this in terms of content. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kollross and Mr Scherak.]] In essence, it is about two changes – please be careful now! – and to see that, you need to understand a budget pyramid. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] In Austria, as in many other countries, a budget consists of a heading, a heading consists of several breakdowns, a breakdown consists of several global budgets and a global budget consists of several detailed budgets. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Kollross]] The previous empowerment to the Minister of Finance, EUR 28 billion, was, of course, in a breakdown; however, and that is right, these EUR 28 billion were not in a detailed budget. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Greiner.]] Okay, now we're writing the 28 billion euros in a detailed budget, and that's the first amendment. – Oh, you, my happy Austria, we’re glad we don’t have any other problems! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross.]] The second – I come to the EUR 28 billion once again – is a empowerment to the Federal Minister of Finance, of course, to provide the necessary assistance under very strict guidelines; and these EUR 28 billion are now divided into four headings. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Greiner.]] That is, from a number – 28 billion euros – we make four numbers. That is the whole content of the amendment, and I cannot understand this great excitement at the best of my will, because it is quite clear – Mr Leichfried, be careful! – that expenditure is not predictable in a serial manner. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I'll bring you three examples. I mention the example of short work: For this there is God thanks now to a financial framework of 12 billion euros, requested are 10 billion euros but we do not know what it will be at the end of the day because it is requested. [[Abg. Lightness:... also not serious!]] And quite honestly: Let us hope together that people will not need short-time work, namely in two ways: Then, first, they are in employment and second, it also relieves the government budget. What comes out at the end of the day – the shield has been stretched – what it needs, we simply don't know yet, it can't be estimated serially. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Second example: Meanwhile, there is 6 billion euros more liquidity in the economy – by the end of September. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Waller.]] Of course, this is not yet budgetaryly effective, but if the support goes over into the new year because it is necessary, then it will naturally become budget-effective. But today, and that is what every economic researcher says, is unseriously priceable. [[Call the SPÖ:... Stundations!]] Third example, guarantees and liability: This is very important for the Austrian economy, for individual companies: The State has given guarantees. Anyone who understands the instrument a little bit, but knows: This does not mean liquidity yet, but only becomes striking when the case of liability occurs – and you can't really estimate it at the moment. The expenditure situation is therefore clearly inestimable. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] Important in connection with the EUR 28 billion are all these important programmes, which are to be implemented. I don't want to list that anymore. A thought is also very important to me before I come to the revenue side: I find it interesting that the budget, which was introduced into Parliament in mid-March, will not be discussed at all. There are very, very important expenditure in there. Obviously, the expenditure structure there is a very, very good one and it is widely carried out. Then the argument always comes: Well, we can at least take the revenue back. – But there is also the following: There is no serious economic researcher who is currently able to predict actual growth – it will become a minus growth. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl]] Anyone who has only a little economic house mind knows: If you don't know the forecasts, you can't predict how much less tax revenue we're going to have. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] That is, the chosen procedure is a very good, very correct one. We've been working on the rescue shield over the Austrian economy. We have the technical possibilities to bring this help to people as well. And quite honestly: In all technical discussions on global budgets and detailed budgets, the most important thing remains that the help comes to people and that we have the technical foundations for it. [[Abg. Greiner: Where is she?]] The programs have been there for a long time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Finally, I tell you quite honestly – and I think I have explained that, and I think you can agree: It is not really predictable, but, please, the most important thing is that we can finance the measures that come to us. It will be decisive which interest rates will allow for the inclusion of foreign capital on international markets. I am already very proud that short-term bonds can still be financed with minus interest rates, even long-term bonds at a sensational interest rate. This shows the strength of the Austrian economy. We have a good basis for dealing with the crisis, and we have also created the technical instrument for doing so. – Thank you for the attention. (Applause from the Group of the European People's Party and Greens) – (Abg. Lightness:... I already see that...!) [[13:00]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e54457	The amendment was distributed and explained in the main guidelines. It is properly implemented because it is also sufficiently supported. Mrs Dagmar Belakovich has now come to speak on business treatment. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e54489	In his speech, Member Hanger has just said that this debate is ‘abominable’ here. This choice of words has already been made by representatives of the ÖVP for the xth time, in order to describe constructive criticism of the opposition as ridiculous. Mr President, I would ask you to consider: Does that actually correspond to the dignity of the house? If the answer No, I would ask you to point out to Members of the ÖVP that a debate here is not ridiculous, and that criticism is in no way ridiculous.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e54519	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I assume that the overall situation leads to a very emotional entry into the debate. We may be able to take a little breath out over the next few hours. There are now no more words available to me. The discussions on this subject have thus ended. [[13:01:43]] UG 21: Social affairs UG 22: Pension insurance UG 21: Consumer protection
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e54558	Furthermore, we come to subheadings 21: Social security, 22: Pension insurance and 21: Consumer protection. A joint debate is taking place on this matter. The first speaker to speak is Mr Alois Stöger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e54585	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If we have in Austria a Finance Minister who has the § 28 para. 3 of the Federal Budget Act would have read once if it had done so – and this Federal Budget Act is based directly on Article 51 of the Federal Constitution – he would have read that all revenue and expenditure should be placed at the level of a detailed budget. [[Abg. Lightenness: But we don't!]] What's the ÖVP doing? – She gives it to us in a single heading. All things will be maimed, and this will not ensure the clarity of the budget. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, I would like to thank Mr Zopf on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Thank you for that – better it is not; better it is not possible to show how you act twice – to say on the one hand, we do everything and to make it bad on the other, when the opposition criticizes and makes it clear how you act. Those who have read the budget carefully, ladies and gentlemen, will have read in the strategy report that they are prepared to save in the area of pensions. We're coming to the pension debate now. It is good that Parliament and the majority have succeeded in keeping up with these savings fantasies, especially in the case of statutory pension insurance. The ÖVP has always tried it. It has succeeded, and I would like to say that clearly. Last year, around 600 million euros were spent on statutory pensions less than was planned. That means the pensions are secured, they are eligible for funding. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have ensured that young people get back to work because we have said: 45 years are enough. This principle must also be implemented. Thirdly, we have ensured the following – and now, my dear Austrians, listen carefully! –: 2.5 million people now have income insurance in Austria with the statutory pension. This is the stabilizer for purchasing power, for the economy, and we are implementing it. In so far as: The pensions are secured. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, towards ÖVP: If a Finance Minister - - No, I ask the other way round -: Did you drink wine this week? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] Have you, dear Austrians, been invited to a business dinner this week? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Eßl.]] If not: You will pay this in the future because the ÖVP and the government will now abolish the tax on sect and make business eating tax-free. You'll pay for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e54677	Mrs Bedrana Ribo has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e54698	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Dear Seers! I am speaking now about UG 21, which includes social, care and people with disabilities. UG 21 amounts to around EUR 3.85 billion, which is almost 5% of the total budget. About 90 percent of these 3.55 billion euros are for care services. The Federal Government is involved in a number of other services, such as the care allowance, the subsidies to the countries because of the absence of the care rules and many others. The Federal budget reflects one in the field of care, namely the inter-financing interconnectedness in this area. With the care allowance and other benefits, the Federal Government of course makes an important contribution to care financing, but the primary responsibility lies with the countries. For example, this is about mobile or stationary care. There is also a part that is important to me personally, which I would also like to highlight, namely those costs in the budget that are invisible, i.e. these informal costs. Most of the care benefits are provided informally in Austria, which is 73 percent of women. There are a million caregivers in Austria. 700 000 of them are women who provide unpaid care services. When we talk about care – and this is what we are doing at this point of breakdown – we also need to talk about other groups of people in the care, namely the people working in care, and also about the 24-hour caregivers, because they were very prominent in the media in the last few days and weeks. This example, however, also shows the failure of the past in the field of care. This is a good indication that there is a lot to be done in this area. It is also a good indication that care needs a reform. How many times have we heard during the last sittings, whether here in Parliament's plenary or in the relevant committees, and that across all party borders: Caregivers need to be better supported, the working conditions for people in care need to be improved, the care as a profession needs more recognition! – These are all things we all agree on here. Of course, I am pleased because there is almost no other subject. There is also a Minister for Health, Mr Anschober, who is also very important to this issue, who has also adopted this issue, which has already said from the beginning of his term of office, that he would like to make some progress in the care. [[Abg. Belakovich: And then?]] He started the care reform. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cuckoo.]] By Corona this was naturally interrupted, and in autumn it will continue. [[Abg. Loacker:... Nothing happened!]] He has also invited you and all of you here and in the committees to support him in this project and has offered to support us in this project. Again: We all want improvements. What's going on? The financing? – Yeah, it's gonna be expensive, but if we don't do anything, it'll get even more expensive. [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, then do something!]] – Yes then we do something together, then we do something together – and I repeat this “jointly” – for the caring family, together something for the people in care, together something for the 24-hour caregivers! Let's fight for them together! We all get older, and one or the other of us will eventually be able to and need care. That's why these classics also: Take care of all of us, let's pack it up together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e54767	Mr Magnème. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his Andreas Hanger reported. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e54794	Mr Stöger said in his statement: In the future, business meals are tax-free. I'm actually correcting: In principle, expenditure cannot be tax-free at one time – that is the one time – and business meals can be reduced to 75 percent from the tax in the future. This serves to support the host who urgently need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e54843	Mrs Dagmar Belakovich spoke. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e54878	Mr President. Federal Minister! Yes, some really only understand the ÖVP, that's quite clear. You are right, Mr Obernosterer. [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of SPÖ and NEOS.]] Not even the people outside understand what you're giving of yourself. That has, however, been a true word of yours. This is the parallel world in which this ÖVP lives, you have now proved it clearly again. – But I didn’t want to talk to you at all, but I actually wanted to deal briefly with what my previous speaker said. Obviously everything is on track in the care, then what does it have to do with it? It is very nice if you would like to quote what the Minister had not already said – if no reforms were to come, he could invite as he pleases. I don't know, it was apparently a charge towards the Minister that he didn't implement anything. This is, of course, bitter for the Minister to be attacked by his own group here, but we will not solve it now, because we have a budget debate here, which is a budget debate which has to deal mainly with the issues of social protection, consumer protection, care and pensions. Then I come to something that is in my heart: Mr Federal Minister, I have told you this very often, and there is no solution. The Federal Council adopted a majority decision on workers who are members of the same household belonging to a risk group. I say this now to a very specific example: For example, a parent with a seriously ill child, where a parent probably had to give up his professional activity at the majority in order to accompany the child in a hospital to a severe therapy, so to speak, the second parent now faced the situation as a single parent, either to endanger his seriously ill child every day or to cancel his job. For this, this federal government simply finds no solution. It is a very small number of people who are affected by this, but there is no solution. Yesterday we had a meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, where this matter has come back because there has been a majority decision in the Federal Council. What have the two government groups done with this decision-making request from the Federal Council, with the decision-making request of the Chamber of State? – They have left him benhard, past the interests of the population, past the interests of parents or even spouses who do not know if, if they pursue their professional activity in order to maintain their family, they may endanger a loved one in their household. Mr Federal Minister, I am slowly wondering what these whole Covid measures should be if one really fails those people for whom they are necessary, where it is really urgent. Nothing happens from this federal government, nothing at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] All children in school must walk around with a mask. This is really a cutback for the little ones. Mr. Federal Minister, it's going to be hot, nobody wants it anymore, no one keeps it. Even teachers – even teachers who are very close to your group – find these masks unbearable because they are completely pointless because they do not offer protection. [[towards ÖVP]] That's what many studies say, just recently a new study by TU from Munich, which precisely describes that they do not bring any protection at all. This is torture for the children, for the youngest! But where you children You can simply and simply find no solution, ladies and gentlemen, and I think that is terrible. I would now like to say a word to Mr Zopf, who unfortunately is no longer here, but who has said something today when it comes to increasing unemployment benefit. She was very excited that the SPÖ had dared to re-submit this request. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, we have had this request more often. We will also have it again, that is, until you understand the following: if you do not manage to stimulate consumption, the economy will not jump either. Why do I mention that again? – I have already said it today: Last night in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection You said you adjourned the request with the statement of reasons: Yes, you understand all of this and it is now being negotiated and discussed, and you can't be so quick and at all and as well. Today, not 24 hours later, the ÖVP says: This is not questionable for us because we want people to go to work, and that they don't get to work quickly, there's no! That's what I'm asking myself: Has Mr Koza been inside? - Unfortunately, he didn't hear it. He was the one who tried to build a bridge in the Committee yesterday. What are you saying? – Perhaps you could do something to help and talk to your coalition partner in such a way that in the future he will no longer flatter on us in the Committee on Social Affairs, because that is, honestly, a pretty unfrozenness of you to really tell us stories that are in fact never on your agenda. We will continue to fight for the fact that the people who are now out of work due to your non-activities, because you don't pay out money, have become indebted - because you have to answer it because Their aid funds do not flow – now they also get decent unemployment benefits so that they can afford their standard of living and so that they can invest in consumption as well. Only in this way will we work together to bring the Austrian economy up again.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e54951	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Michael Hammer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e54976	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to use the beginning of my speech to particularly welcome the clubman of the Freedom Party Herbert Kickl. He has not participated in this budget debate for two and a half days, except last night with a press release. [[Abg. Keck: The Minister of Finance does not!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: There was sickness!]] That is where we see how seriously this debate is being held. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Mr Hafenecker and Mr Loacker's calls.]] In the area of social and consumer protection, the draft budget provides for expenditure of EUR 3.84 billion, which is around 5.6 percent more than in recent years. The money is used mainly in the care sector for the valorization of the care allowance and for the increase of the care allowance. Not included in the proposal are the measures we put in place for the special donation of the care fund and voluntary compensation, EUR 600,000 for voluntary commitment. A major focus for the Federal Government is the care sector – that was already mentioned by the previous speaker – and thus there is a common approach to ensuring the care staff and financing. We want to bring together a proper solution. To sum up, it is a good social budget, and I would ask you to agree to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e55041	Mrs. Dr. Dagmar Belakovich referred to an actual correction. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e55068	Mr President. Mr Hammer claimed that Mr Kickl had not participated in the budget debates over the last few days, because he was not interested in it. In fact, I am correct, Mr Hammer – the level cannot be bought –: Mr Kickl has been apologised for the last few days, and I also say that he was apologised for illness. I would really ask you to apologize to colleagues Kickl for this submission.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e55109	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Gerald Loacker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e55133	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Subdivision 22, pensions. It is remarkable that the ÖVP, like Mr Hammer, says nothing about the 10 billion euro pensions in this part of the debate. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This is a embarrassingly touched silence, which you, as the largest political group, make collective, but I would be embarrassed if I were the ÖVP. This is a disaster, which is apparent: Only in the case of social security pensions do you have to stop 710 million euros more expenditure than is shown in the budget success in the previous year, and that is only the beginning because many effects of the decisions of 19. September of the previous year will be listed. For example, the first pension increase in the first year costs 50 million euros – but every year because the first pension year takes this away. The second also gets 50, are 100, in the third year it is 150. On average, the Austrians are 23 years old in pension – you can calculate for yourself what that means in the long term. This is similar in the case of the discount-free early pension, and your ministry has answered a budget request with a huge error in the calculation. It was a beautiful calculation as it fits the beautiful words. The people who say goodbye to early retirement will receive an average of more than EUR 2 800 per month, i.e. about EUR 40 000 per year. These 35 000 people who retire do not have a discount of 4,000 euros. But that would be 140 million euros a year and not the 33 million euros you have written to me. The fact that you write mathematics in your ministry has already been recognized on other topics. The head of the Pensions Commission, Walter Pöltner, has said that this discount-free early pension will be heard again because it provides a wrong incentive because it only rewards those with big pensions and because it especially rewards men and women not. But you don't care, you're waiting for a report. The head of the The Commission has spoken, but the Minister is waiting. It is always important to you that it takes a long time – look, look, watch, keep looking, we're in good conversation with the Pensions Commission. They're always in good conversation, but nothing happens. What you're doing, I'm going to call a shock: always just look and do nothing. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] While the young generation now loses its jobs because of this whole drama or does not get jobs when it comes out of education, you make the well-serviced old expensive election gifts – not the small pensioners, but the well-served old with 2 800 euros pension per month. You make those who have the wall, and the boys who have to pay everything, you keep paying. Look away, you don't care. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[13:22]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e55311	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, it is properly put in place and is therefore also under negotiation. Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Markus Koza. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e55339	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it is quite right that I should now talk to colleagues about Loacker because I am also concerned about retirement. [[Abg. Loacker: That really fits, yes!]] It was an interesting speech before me that almost spares me the entrance, because I would have said that the topic of pensions and budget is very often discussed in connection with these questions: Is our pension system eligible for funding in the future? Is it not unfinanceable? Is it not a pension system that goes at the expense of our young and youngest, at the expense of future generations? [[Abg. Loacker: Sure, you say it!]] Do we not have to save dramatically and cut dramatically where it goes, so that we can still afford life in old age, whichever it is? This is always the accompanying music of pension debates, and so it is today. It was also to be expected, in particular, that the decisions of September 2019 will be questioned once again, and yes, one can quite question whether everyone was really so intelligent and just for distribution – I am quite right. I think you really have to think about whether it was all so well. [[Abg. Scherak: Then it changes!]] On the other hand, there have already been some measures that were not so stupid at all. I would like to remind you of those decisions – I think that was in autumn 2008 – which were decided in the context of the free play of the forces here in Parliament, in which it was at the outset that they were not manageable, unfinancing and very terrible. Also there were pension increases in the game. Interestingly, these decisions were subsequently re-interpreted to the first economic package in 2008 because they had significant consequences. – You can snoop as much as you want, Mr Loacker! [[Abg. Loacker: billions blown out in one day!]] They have stabilized demand, and in those times, in 2008, in which the crisis has also been struck in Austria, they have strengthened mass purchasing power – including the mass purchasing power of pensioners, who, as mentioned above, are not so few with over 2 million. [[Abg. Loacker: The contributions of taxpayers robbed and the purchasing power destroyed!]] I grant the older generation – my father, my mother and also all the world’s grandmothers and grandpas – as decent a pension as possible, from which they can live well. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] If the question is whether pensions can still be financed in the future, the budget service report is very interesting. [[Abg. Loacker: Look at him!]] I really like him, there are wonderful numbers inside: For example, in 2020, pension expenditure represents 13.5% of GDP, and we see how much they represent in 2040: 15.1 percent of GDP. A disaster? - I don't see it. In 2060 it is 15.2 percent. [[Abg. Loacker: How many billion are these?]] If you know how many billions that's 2060, you'll get 100 points from me now. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] 15.2 percent of GDP in 2060 means that over the next 40 years, we have a growth in expenditure on pensions of 1.7 percent of GDP – which disaster, what infinancing! [[Abg. Loacker: Take this from the budget figures, not from GDP! What kind of math is that?]] [[Abg. Matznetter: GDP is not mathematics? It's almost flowering!]] If you look at the budget report and read it, you realize that we actually have a problem, because of the rising unemployment. The revenue side is under pressure due to the rising unemployment, the support and the threat of insolvency, and therefore it is so important that, in times of crisis and in the coming months, we make a very offensive and very successful labour market policy so that many people get into employment, because employment is the best way to secure and finance pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e55507	Mr Anschober spoke on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e55528	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I just wanted to get involved in the debate, because, of course, social policy has a very crucial political function in Corona, and we should take it very, very seriously, because things are getting more difficult. We know that the Corona situation has made many areas and the lives of many people, who have already been in difficult situations in life, more acutely difficult that parts of this population are in even more difficult living situations – people with disabilities, for example. That is, we must work together – and this is my appeal: working together – very carefully and very actively to ensure that this health crisis does not become a serious social crisis. This is our task and our responsibility. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, maybe some of you have registered it: This morning, the EU Statistics Report on Income and Living Conditions was presented in 2019. This is a very important report which has shown that things in Europe as a whole, on such a rich and largely wealthy continent, do not develop in the way that fair and just living conditions can be expected. We have a situation across Europe that 21.8 percent of European citizens are currently at risk of poverty or exclusion. Imagine these numbers once! More than one fifth of Europe is currently at risk of poverty or exclusion, according to these EU statistics, which are undisputed. Austria is much better, and that is a good thing. We are currently 16.9 percent, but I say that we cannot be satisfied with this 16.9 percent – quite the contrary. It must be our claim to work together to ensure that people in this risk situation, which significantly reduces the opportunities for social participation in all social areas, can experience. We need to become active in this respect. According to these figures, nearly 1.5 million people in Austria are affected. They must be the main concentration. In a rich country, this must be changeable. There must be more justice in a rich country. In a rich country, we need to see that we are dealing more fairly with each other and that we are extremely careful and counter-controlling especially in situations where the most difficult situations of life are facing the crisis, so that it does not lead to this social crisis, at the beginning of which we are already standing. I am glad that we have taken first steps in many areas – the aid and support funds are part of it. I am glad that work is being done on simplifying access opportunities, making it faster, and I am glad that we have also anchored social security measures, for example, from the family sector, which are going directly to combat the emergency situation of those affected, such as the issue of emergency aid and its corresponding increase. These are all first important steps, but they must not be the final steps. We must and we will lay down there and continue to work consistently in this area. - That's one. What I find very exciting about Corona is: In many areas of detail, this crisis shows us where the social problems are actually at home. We know, on the basis of various reports, that in some sub-areas precarious work situations have increased in Austria. I am now not a bad speaker of rental work in general, but that we also have problem areas, that is, I think, undisputed. If we look at this current spread cluster in Lower Austria and Vienna, we can see very clearly: Things are interconnected! I am currently having acute problems where the most precarious living situations, housing situations and work situations are present. Therefore, in the next few weeks in Austria, we will realize a large, broad, comprehensive screening program, which will be tested in these areas. We must not allow the ceiling to be spread over there, but we must clarify it and we must ensure that the minimum, which means social security, namely health security, is guaranteed – even in these endangered and risky areas of life that have become visible there. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, it is a group in which this becomes particularly visible, what Corona means, and how much it is making a peak, these are people with disabilities. – Yes, I say it quite openly and honestly: We too have not been as offensive in recent weeks, at the beginning of the crisis, as regards the involvement of this group of people as it would have been necessary. Yes, it is. – We have learned that people with disabilities are now also involved in the crisis team so that there is always a direct representation there and therefore the concerns, the very specific topics and the specific issues of concern are also very quickly part of the overall strategy and we do not need to repair a little afterwards. That's very, very important to me. The Secondly, we are already working on the National Action Plan for People with Disabilities, which for the first time now includes all government departments. That's what I'm It is not an issue of the Social Ministry alone, it is an economic issue, it is an educational topic, that is a family theme, that is a youth topic, that is a topic of our society, that is, a topic of all of us. That's why it's going to be: that we'll start through this overall package with a view to fair opportunities for people with disabilities in our society at the latest in 2021. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] To come to colleagues Stöger: He started with the pensions, and I really thought a sentence was excellent. I can also agree with this, namely the statement that we are actually building on a truly solid system that has been developed for decades, which still has weaknesses in sub-areas for very specific groups of the population, but which we can essentially be proud of and which should not be mispronounced. Mr Loacker! Yes, I am not one who shoots fast because I do not have ideological motives; that may distinguish us two in this question. [[Congratulations and congratulation with the Greens as well as congratulation with representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] I do not want to be fed with very, very different forecasts in the question you raised, which is actually a subject that is sensitive, but I want facts at the table – and having facts at the table means that the actual figures belong to the table. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Loacker and Mr Schnedlitz.]] However, we cannot have these after two or three months, but we can only have them when there are actually payments and figures. Then we will assess and then we will decide. – That’s just how it goes with us, and I’m sure that’s a good way. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Finally, from my side another point of view, which is a major concern to me personally. Of course, it is only a symbol if a government gives the name of a special project directly into the title of the competent ministry, namely the care. This is a symbol – and it must become more than a symbol, and I promise and guarantee you that it will be more than a symbol. We started very quickly in January with the preparatory work for the major care reform. I know that in the meantime – I call it that – the pressure of suffering is so great for the federal states that for the first time, I think, we are really drawing on this question. It is only possible to implement a care reform if a comprehensive action is taken and if everyone supports this reform project. That's why you have to talk before, so you have to take people seriously, so you have to involve institutions, the affected and make a common process, otherwise this will remain piecework again, and I don't want it, and we can't afford it anymore. We lack 75 000 employees in a relatively short time. If we do not now make the way for us to actually tackle these problem areas in the field of care, then who is to spell them out? That's the central task. That is why we have re-established our timetable for the care reform. It will be re-started in September – in the hope that we will be able to put under control a subject that you know exactly, which has been quite busy with us over the past few weeks and months, until then, in fact, we will be able to devote ourselves to the offensive, forward-looking tasks again. That's the real goal. In the meantime, it was not easy, because we know the situation of 24-hour caregivers, we know the life situation of caring relatives, and we know that these are inconceivably difficult work and life situations – and yes, they have become more difficult through Corona. There, too, the system has shown where the weaknesses are. That is why, for example, we are working very intensively with the federal states to get rid of these threats of the system that were and are present. This House has made 100 million euros available for this purpose. I thank you for that. This is extremely well-invested money, so that we do not leave the people concerned alone in such a crisis situation and crisis situation. [[As a result of the Commission's proposal, the Commission has decided to extend the scope of the common position to the Member States of the European Parliament and of the Council on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men ……]] One more point is important to me. We have many stationary facilities. Of course, we have a priority for the domestic area, for the mobile sector, but also for the stationary area is very, very important, and we know from our neighbouring countries that the people concerned were and are extremely busy because they were and are the most vulnerable in this Corona crisis. If you look with me at Italy, France, Spain and other countries and we see together the extent of this threat and how many deaths there have been in this area of the inhabitants of institutions, then, I think, we realize that it was good, right and wise that we have been very, very well protected from the beginning to these institutions. However, this has also led to social difficulties for those affected and those affected, and we are currently in the process of opening up, from the institutions for people with disabilities to the old and care homes to the hospitals, which ensures that we are gradually returning to the everyday situation of life. That's what we're working for. The first recommendations will be presented and published on the weekend for the hospitals, and I assume that in about ten days we will be able to present the opening measures for the whole area so that we can find a balance between social needs and opportunities and the protection of those concerned. - That's the goal.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e55667	Mrs Mag.a Verena Nussbaum is now speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e55692	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Values Advisors! Mr Minister, I too would like to speak about care right now at the beginning of my speech. You've already presented it like this: It's right, we need to quickly restructure the care, our care system. We have seen in the Corona crisis how wobbly the legs that care for us in Austria is on. We have acute lack of staff in the care. We need to significantly increase the number of training places. We need to provide the care staff with qualification programmes. We need – which is very important – more attractive working conditions, such as shorter working hours and higher wages. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You say you want to start it in September. I think we've been waiting a lot too long, you'd have to start right now. In the second part of my speech, I would like to talk to people with disabilities. It is nice that you have also included people with disabilities and their representations in the crisis table, because for a long time these people were simply invisible to the Federal Government – they were simply forgotten. However, real integration also means, of course, leading a self-determined life, and I would like to remind you again that it is essential for it to be financially independent. be. We need to see that people with disabilities who work in day-to-day structures receive a fair wage instead of pocket money and full social security, so that they can also receive a pension in old age. We also lack a lot in the budget. I would like to help you now so that this group's social participation can or will be improved, and I would like to make a motion for a resolution in connection with accessibility. Since January 2020, it should be possible to access all public buildings and transport facilities without barriers under the Federal Disability Equality Act in Austria, but unfortunately this has not been achieved. Only 50 percent are accessible in large shopping streets and locals. To this end, I would like to say that it is necessary for us to grant federal funding in accordance with the general framework directives, but also under the Federal Procurement Act, that funds are used only if the projects are barrier-free or are made barrier-free. It is certainly great to put the economic engine back there, because it is about creating or safeguarding many jobs, because these conversion measures are mostly very personal intensive. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[13:43]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e55820	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore also under negotiation. Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Peter Weidinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e55847	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! Dear Austrians, dear Austrians! I would like to dedicate my speech to consumer protection. I am convinced that the best form of consumer protection is to protect our successful social model. Previously, a colleague from the SPÖ reminded Bruno Kreisky. As a distinctive personality in the history of Austria, Bruno Kreisky then got a name in good faith, also in the Federal Chancellery, namely in a working room. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] I am very glad that German Chancellor Sebastian Kurz is working together with the Green Team to further develop this model of society for Austria. [[Call the SPÖ: Very funny!]] [[further calls to the SPÖ]] [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Let's go. Let's go.]] Ladies and gentlemen, our state lives a successful symbiosis with the market – without market, without entrepreneurial risk, without cross-border trade, no jobs, no social taxes or taxes! [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] These are sources of funding for us to give people freedom to also give consumers the opportunity to consume services well in Austria and to help them develop new ones. That is why in this budget, the Federal Government has proposed to our House an increase in consumer protection funds, an increase of 21.1 percent or 6.2 million euros, and more money for an important partner for us, namely the Consumer Information Association, which we also need to take the next step in the development of our social model of the social market economy. Our objective is to introduce the digital eco-social market economy in Austria, and to do so we need consumers who help make decisions in freedom. This requires important facilities such as debt advice. To do this, the Internet Ombudsman needs it. This also requires partners, such as energy communities that will be created – where consumers are also active as producers – who help us implement the Green New Deal together with the European Union. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted – and I thank you for the excellent cooperation with my colleague from the Greens, with Ulli Fischer – that we are setting up a process here together – accompanied and led by the Federal Minister – in order to make our contribution to the fact that the consumers together in the team of Austria are creating the comeback of Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e55915	The next speaker is Mr Peter Wurm. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e55939	Mr President. Mr. Minister Fright! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] A Minister of Social Affairs - -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e55970	Mr President, I must draw your attention to the fact that in the House we agreed not to make any speeches with the change of name. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e55991	I would like to take note of that. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] This nickname was missed in his homeland, Upper Austria. [[Call the ÖVP: Who?]] He will continue to spread otherwise, but I have found him quite striking. Minister, but despite everything, you are the Minister of Social Affairs. We currently have 1.9 million people in Austria with families, with children who are either unemployed or in short-time jobs who have massive pay cuts. We have never had a major social crisis, and I don't see – that's how I feel – the fear sweat on your forehead. You're quite loose, so you keep going like you had. You continue to play the game with your mask, but what it means socially, Minister, I do not feel that, even in committees, if you are there. They do this very professionally – you can't say anything – but I don't feel an emotion. After all, I have experienced a number of social ministers, including a now deceased Social Minister, Hundstorfer – to mention them too – since I felt he was with his heart. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] Every unemployed person, every social case, has annoyed everything from problems – those were still relatively good times at that time – but they do not seem to be very much toangling the 1.9 million people, and I find that shocking. Maybe a short while to the pensions: Our position is very clear. We too believe that 45 years are enough. I also believe that pensions will be eligible for funding – of course, these are huge expenditures. What we, I think, will have to do is to have luxury pensions. Especially in this crisis, one will have to attack it again, and the Greens will have a historic opportunity to break up their waterloo from the last part of it. Whatever you should say: Of course, those people who are in short or unemployed pay less on their pension account. That means that this will also reduce pensions for these people in the long term. I have brought it so that you can see it simply once, this number with the many zeros, the EU budget now in the Corona crisis. [[a board with the title “EU budget 2017-2021: € 1,850,000” on the speaker’s desk]] I don't know if someone can imagine something under it; it was also very difficult for me: 1.8 trillion euros. I've had to goggle, how it goes on then. [[Abg. Maurer: That doesn't surprise me either!]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] I just wanted to say that one sees where the money flows from the taxpayer from Austria. This then spreads Brussels in Europe – where exactly, we do not know. We would have proposed Hoppala – and above all – for those in Austria who are really suffering at the moment! [[placing a sign with the label “Austria 1000er” on the speaker’s desk]] [[The speaker's sign is in front of the speaker's desk.]] [[Oje-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Lightenness: This happened yesterday to Mr. Zanger!]] It's important enough to pick it up. I'll show it again: the Austrian thousand. This would be a measure that could help and should help the general population in Austria and enable the economy to be revived accordingly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I put the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[13:51]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e56288	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Mag.a Ulrike Fischer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e56315	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Consumer protection concerns all of us. I am therefore very pleased that I am not allowed to give this important topic at 10 p.m. in the evening, but in the so-called prime time hearing. Our budget in the UG 21 was much higher this year because the VKI financing law has been influenced and the funding of the Consumer Information Association for 2020 is thus ensured. An important means of reaching consumers, consumers, is often hotlines. You all have in your circle of friends, circle of acquaintances people who have made this experience or you have made it yourself that holidays cannot take place, that travels must be cancelled. In this respect, the hotline operated by the VKI could be expanded in such a way that 35 000 requests have been received so far. It was budgeted at EUR 228 000 and so many requests from concerned consumers were well answered. In terms of consumer protection, it is important that we look at the edge of the plate, that we think globally and act locally. Our actions and consumption can make our world better and more sustainable. I think that's important and that's what matters. In our budget and in the government programme, we have committed ourselves to the fact that there are not only keywords but also important concerns for implementation. Whether it be the promotion of durable products, the ease of repair, the prevention of waste, the waste of food – all these points are given a high priority. The Green Deal programme, which the European Commission has stressed but which is so important, will of course also be implemented in Austria together with the Ministry. Sustainability gets an even higher priority. I am pleased that attention is greater today and now comes to an important point that, I believe, affects us all, this is the planned obsolescence or the programmed suicide. You all know this: The deadline has just expired – two years lasts the warranty period – and then something goes wrong. It is particularly important that we change the rules on repairability and wear and tear parts in such a way that the legislation is better laid down legally. - Okay, I know, I have to hurry up with my speech. [[Mr Vogl and Mr Scherak were cheerful.]] I still come to two, three important things: Strong consumer protection helps fair companies, strengthens the incentive to consumption and thus strengthens Austria's economic location. But economies are not always easy at this time, in this crisis. Debts are often made that can be dismantled if appropriate debtor advice is well developed. It is very important that we develop the umbrella association, which currently receives 40,000 euros, accordingly and support the debt advice that asks for help accordingly. I've got one more point to make: The important food check will be expanded. Food check and scan4Chem, these are not just keywords; on the contrary, in Austria there are living consumer protection, and for that we thank our Minister! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e56373	The next speaker is Mrs Fiona Fiona Fiedler. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e56394	Mr President. High house! Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators and spectators! In recent days we have heard a lot about the current Finance Minister and about the lack of ability to create a proper budget. Our chancellor understands the displeasure of anyone who has no money from the various funds on the account. - How sensitive! We have discussed the equality of women and the shifted role model that Corona – or the government – has given us. The chancellor has repeatedly expressed thanks to the citizens that they have behaved so exemplaryly in the crisis so that the virus does not spread further. He even visited the Kleinwalsertal to thank himself personally. In summary, many criticisms of the opposition, much praise of the government parties. But what is missing as always is the attention and consideration of people with disabilities. This group of people – there are still no less than 1.4 million people in our country – is simply denied. The budget is said to have integrated measures and resources for a self-determined life of people with disabilities, but they are not exactly broken down. In the principle of foundry, you drive over everything, but whether the money is used for – for example – accessible schools or barrier-free offices does not seem to be. Worse: On the question of how much was budgeted for promoting inclusive kindergartens and schools, a close answer came from Minister of Education Fäsmann: Pediatric gardens are a matter of land, it's none of his business. – Well, that’s also an answer! I think inclusion is all our concern; the Minister of Education should also address something about inclusion. – Think about it, Minister! During the meetings of the Committee on Budgets, it was promised that after the crisis these people would be thought about and then involved. People with disabilities are now also there. They also live in the period of the Corona crisis and they are now even more isolated than they are – but they are people from our midst, they are part of our society, we must finally understand that! That is why I have some questions. On Tuesday, Vice-Chancellor Kogler said on the topic of sport: We were the first to allow different sports again. – Why don’t we want to be the first to be involved in Austria? Why are we not the first to share equally in our society in people with disabilities? Someone also said: The sensitivity of the People's Procuratorate is so important in the numerous cases it has to deal with. - Right! But why is the government not sensitive when it comes to numerous concerns and fates of people with disabilities? Why not be sensitive when six-year-old children have to get out of nursing facilities without their parents because no corona tests are carried out, even though this may give them a visit? Why not be sensitive when it comes to people in care facilities who are not only allowed to receive a visit but are not even allowed to go to the fresh air? Why? Because they have no way to express themselves, to complain because it is easy to lock them away and cover the problems? I think it's been a long time to involve people with disabilities. The involvement of self-representation in all decision-making must be of course. I expect an extensive package for inclusion in Austria for the 2021 budget. I expect a comprehensive package for inclusive education, for an inclusive labour market and for comprehensive accessibility. I do not only expect three empty words from the government program – pay instead of pocket money – to be referred to several times, I expect concrete means and measures to pay a wage instead of a pocket money to affected people. There are several templates and studies on how this can be done, so there are no longer any excuses for not addressing it. I understand that a budget is not easy to create in times of crisis, but if you understand your business, it is feasible. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[14:00]] The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e56551	I can tell you that the motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Mag. Ernst Gödl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e56579	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In addition to pensions and health, care is one of those policy areas which in the future, in the coming decades, are heavily influenced by demographic development. The care is also a risk of life as well as illness, accident or perhaps unemployment. This risk of care is currently facing some 470 000 people in Austria, namely those 470 000 people who receive care in one of the seven stages. This means that these people have a need to be supported in daily everyday life management, and of course it is important to look closely at it. But it is especially important to say thank you. It is mainly those 950 000 men and women – and most of all women – who care for their families at home – that is 950 000 people in Austria. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Let's go. Let's go.]] It is also important to say thank you to the many institutions, associations, institutions – and I call it exemplary four large, namely the Caritas, the Volkshilfe, the Red Cross – who, with their mobile services, are also active in mobile services again, mainly women – many thousands of people at home in everyday care, in care. It is also important to thank the staff in day care facilities, the staff in nursing homes, the approximately 60 000 people, mainly from neighbouring countries, from European neighbouring countries, to ensure 24-hour care in Austria. We must thank all these institutions very much! Now let's look at the budget: How is this area of care reflected in the budget to be discussed today? What is the status quo? . In the previous year, we decided that we will evaluate the care allowance annually from 2020 onwards. This is, of course, right now reflected in this budget, which means an increase of EUR 154 million or an increase of 6.2 percent. Overall, this is also noted, the payments of the care money amount to EUR 2.66 billion. We have also decided here in the House about a year ago on the right to care, and of course this must also be presented financially; since there is also an increase of 63 percent to a total of 18 million euros. And, of course, the pension fund for the municipalities and for the countries of EUR 399 million and also the replacement for the cancellation of the property regime of EUR 300 million will be re-introduced. The care sector is one of the central policy areas that we need to deal with intensively in the near future – the Federal Minister has mentioned it – and we have already pictured many, many projects in the government programme. These include the concentration of the entire funding streams, a new impetus for the training of staff and professionals and the support of caring families. It will also be equally important to focus on preventive measures. This budget will now secure the current care effort, but, as has been said, there will need to be a very large joint effort in the coming months to develop the care concept for the whole of Austria in order to find a better coordinated approach for our nine federal states together with the Confederation, and that will be our common task. Now we can decide the budget for this year as we have put it here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e56633	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Markus Vogl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e56657	Mr President. Minister! High house! There is the saying: Talking is silver, silence is gold. That is why it may not be a mistake if the Federal Minister does not lose a word on consumer protection, because of words we have nothing anyway. I think the actions are more important. To protect consumers, there is a budget of 6.5 million euros, not really a lot of money, but still many tasks to be done. First of all, thanks to the Greens that they have actually managed to secure the funding of the VKI for this year! But the paint must test is coming in the autumn, because at the same time you are also responsible for the long-term financing of the VKI, which we have already launched, has not been successful. Mr Minister, there are many issues in your field that can be done without money. We are currently being called by many concerned parents and asked how the cancellation costs continue in matura travel. This would, of course, require a proper arrangement for the families, because we have managed that if school events were to be taken over the costs, but the maturants still sit on the cancellation costs. There are, in part, non-comprehensible offers to reduce cancellation costs. You'd be asked. There are other issues, and I can therefore also put forward motions for resolutions. For one thing: I think there will be much more need in the area of debt advice, and my colleague will still express his views on this. However, I may make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that this is important so that this important task of debt advice can continue to work in the future. It will be very, very important after the crisis. What is also important – and we note that the crisis is coming to people –: What do you do if you don't have money? - You're going to the bank! Many, however, are saving their way to the bank, because today you can make a lot of electronic, and overload their account. I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] These are many things that work immediately in practice and which would relieve people who now have no job and little money. It is also about the important issue of collection costs, and it is also about – and I believe that this will be a great deal more to us – to further reform the private bankruptcy. We will experience many entrepreneurs who are suffering from a debt burden that they can no longer vote for themselves, which has to be able to pay off quickly so that they can start a new existence. – Mr Minister, as I said: Talking is silver, silence is gold. We are waiting for your answers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[14:07]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e56850	Both motions for resolutions are sufficiently supported, properly put in place and are under negotiation. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Martin Litschauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e56877	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV and via live stream! Yes, I am also pleased to be able to talk about consumer protection today, and I may also want to start with a personal example. I'm an electric technician and I'm quite used to repairing devices when they're broken. Some time ago my inkjet printer was defective, and the analysis revealed that the print head was broken shortly after the warranty. On and on, this is a simple repair. This part of course you don't get in any store, now I wanted to order it from the manufacturer. It has become apparent that the printing head costs 59 euros, but the whole device can be obtained with new ink cartridges and so on by 69 euros. – It can be seen that the manufacturer does not wish to repair such parts, although it would be quite possible, and is actually made impossible for business. I think this is also an approach in which one has to drill, just as in the case that the devices are very often already included in their expiry date shortly after the warranty expires. As a result, I am glad that the VKI in particular also is active in this area and looks at the manufacturers' fingers, because I think it cannot be strategy that the products are designed for the waste, so they are broken shortly after the guarantee to be able to sell the new equipment again afterwards. Consumer protection Commissioner Reynders has expressed his support for more sustainability and the circular economy. I think that exactly these initiatives will also require that we get our garbage problem down a little bit in the future, but also so that the consumer has more of the products. In this area, I think, but also very much, we need to talk much more about standardisation, because the spare parts policy of many companies is not necessarily consumer-friendly. If you drive the car to the workshop and the oil change is on, you already wonder why you need your own oil filter for almost every car, although it would basically be enough if there were four, five types that could then be used for the exchange. This would be an area of standardisation, which would also benefit consumers in terms of spare parts costs, because this would bring down the costs. Especially active and successful, I believe, was the VKI in the field of energy supply change, not only because it has achieved good results in the tender for the contracts, but because it has been shown that the electricity customers have very often problems reading the bill at all. I think you have to put it on, because even if now smart meters come and produce even more data, we do not benefit relatively little if the consumer does not get this data prepared accordingly and thus does not get any energy savings because he does not understand it. We need new interfaces, which also work with smarthomes, which really help to manage the data online and quickly and also operate energy management. In many areas of digitalization and so on, we will still need VKI because it also supports standardisation. That is why I am very glad that we have managed to finance the VKI here, and thank you once again very much for the many, much work being done there, and also for the financial provision of consumer protection. I am looking forward to launching many, many other issues that still need it in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e56925	The next speaker is Mr Peter Schmiedlechner. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e56950	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Dear Seers! We are already discussing a budget for the third day, which is not true – with us in the country one would say: a budget for the mess. [[Call:To clean]] We are in an economic crisis that has been triggered by the EIA and its policy of fear. But we know this from the ÖVP, the ÖVP always does it: to blame a problem itself and then to stage itself as a savior. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Many billions of euros of support have been announced. “Taste what it wants”, everyone will be helped, the Federal Chancellor has promised. Mr Minister, you will agree to me: Regional, healthy foods are an important part of our lives and directly affect health. The Corona era has shown the importance of regional supply. Agriculture is system-relevant. It costs the farmers what they want, they are allowed to deliver – according to the advertising of the AMA –; they are allowed to deliver, but they cannot earn anything. Farms are the security islands of the future that we will also need in the future. Austrian agriculture is in a great crisis. Farmers die is not just a keyword, it is reality, and thus thousands of jobs in rural areas are threatened and destroyed. The ÖVP and its representatives, the Federal Farmers, can now show what their farmers are worth. Despite Corona, the Austrian farmers were fed only with an insufficient Covid-19 aid package. In this context, it is particularly painful that social security contributions have not been reduced or issued in particular for small and medium-sized farms in the crisis, but that there are only so-called social security reliefs, speech, flat-rate and option farms can leave their contributions hours or use the possibility of a rate payment and then have to pay them back later. In order to help farmers in their already difficult economic situation through the Covid-19 crisis, it does not only need a support of contributions or a rate payment of contributions for 2020, no, it needs a reduction or a full adoption of social security contributions for the 2020 marketing year. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Minister! Dear colleagues! I hope your broad support for the continuation of local agriculture. Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[14:16]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e57083	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is also under negotiation. Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Elisabeth Scheucher-Pichler. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e57113	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! From the point of view of seniors, demographic development is of course very important, and it is also very important to take this development into account in a budget. It is our job to ensure that the older generation can become in dignity, self-determined and old with good quality of life – I think we all agree – and, of course, the care reform we now have is also very important. Mr. Federal Minister, our support is safe for you. I invite everyone to participate positively in this care reform. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the context of budget creation, of course, you have to look at all generations. We are at the moment at a difficult time – the Federal Minister of Finance said it yesterday too – but we are very lucky that we can use and build on a good budget situation. I think that this budget has succeeded in ensuring many prospects for youth, but also many prospects for the older generation. That is why this budget is a strong signal of generation-righteousness. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur and the rapporteur, Mr Grebien and Mr Schalmeiner.]] From the point of view of the senior representative, allow me some comments: We seniors are willing to take responsibility in all areas of society. There is no area for which we do not feel responsible, because we are also responsible for our grandchildren and for our children, so we are of course also particularly important to us their future and prospects for young people. Therefore, investment in education, investment in research, in digitalisation, but also in the economy and in the environment and climate protection are also important to us older people. We seniors worked hard. We can confidently say that we have contributed a great deal to Austria's high standards in many areas today – and I think it's important that the pensions are secured. We have taken an important step in adapting inflation to low pensions. We have enforced the valorization of the care allowance. It is also important to note, however, that we seniors, in particular, make a decisive contribution to the creation of value in our country. We strengthen with our purchasing power especially the small businesses, the trade, the commercials on the spot, and we have now seen in this time the pandemic how important it is that the local supply works. Let us also continue to buy regionally, ladies and gentlemen! The place of the older generation is therefore in the middle of society – for me this is out of question. Many have sometimes felt a little pushed to the edge in recent weeks, but I say again: This government wanted to protect all those who are at risk, the boys and the elderly as well. [[Abg. Schnedlitz: You locked her away!]] I therefore call on the seniors to be self-confident, to be active, to continue to contribute, to care for the community. - I think we have to stick together. We should look forward positively and confidently and deal with this difficult phase, which is still ahead of us, but also with respect to each other. If we do, we will manage well the next time. That's what I wish us all. I think we agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e57163	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Felix Eypeltauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e57188	Mr President. Minister! High house! Dear citizens! We're living in a fucking complicated world. No one can escape the complexity of our modern, part-time, globalised and mass-related world, which is why it is so important to be well prepared at the start of adult life. No matter whether in the supermarket, online shopping or when booking a flight: We actually consume permanently, we see permanent advertising, we make purchase decisions and enter into complex and also very far-reaching contractual relations – when concluding subscriptions for streaming films, of series, of music, when concluding contracts with e-mail providers, of credit contracts et cetera. How many times, ladies and gentlemen - let us be honest - did we have to admit that we have understood and understood relatively little of what we are signing or clicking on? Actually, the insight and the vision are missing. We are here on an important and very central issue of modern consumer protection, namely the compensation of information asymmetry between businesses and consumers. However, all information and information requirements, all ingredients lists and labelling obligations do not do anything if man cannot think about what that means to him, if he is not able to handle this information properly and does not appreciate it. Before investing, for example, in a private pension fund, the following information is given – as seen at an Austrian bank: Attention! “They are about to purchase a product that is not easy and hard to understand. Before making an investment decision, we recommend that you read through the full information on the respective financial product”, and so on and so on. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if someone makes such a contract and at this time reads for the first time that a security also poses risks, then I congratulate this person. We see that consumer protection has not done something right by providing information, but that our education system has done something wrong. – Welcome to the school system! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] This week is written Matura, I'm pressing all of you thumbs! I am a lot on my way to schools, to school discussions, and we are experiencing NEOS, because we have changed the debate on education policy in a long way. Lifting wings, strengthening strengths, autonomous school: There's hardly anyone talking about that seven years ago. We NEOS want to help students to be not only powerful citizens, but also powerful consumers who can properly assess things that cannot be done that cannot be deceived by advertising and marketing. Anyone who believes that one should suck Zuckerl for vitamin C or biscuits for calcium also believes the constant marketing insults of this federal government. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Please talk to the students, with the maturants! They have the feeling that they're not prepared for life out there. You have to be lucky to have a dedicated teacher. We are in the field of media competence, source criticism quite good. But how does a financial product, a rental contract, autoleasing, an insurance, or an economy work? – All of this is difficult. A colleague has been doing this before. It is said that we would finance pensions from GDP rather than from the budget. – It's difficult. I would remind you of the demand we have from NEOS for more economic education already in compulsory schooling. This is going to be a part of it, and that is exactly what we need. Education is the best consumer protection! I call on you, Minister, to consider consumer protection far more widely than information events, than to think of the undoubtedly important CCI. The best consumer protection is a good education for our students.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e57251	The next speaker is Mrs Heike Grebien. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e57275	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister, dear Rudi! Ladies and gentlemen in this House! Dear Seers! As spokesperson for people with disabilities of the Green Group, I will address, on the one hand, the importance of involving people with disabilities, and, on the other, I would like to make clear what measures have been taken for people with disabilities in connection with the Covid-19 Pandemic. However, it seems important to me to address and clarify in advance. That's not a simple matter because it's legal. The concerns of the group of people with disabilities and their diverse living worlds represent a so-called cross-sectional matter. We have heard this many times today, including on issues such as women. What does cross-sectional matter mean? “The question [...] of the competence of the federal government and the country for a cross-sectional matter is only to be answered if one translates “the outside of the historical concept world of the B-VG” – the year 1920 – “standing mostly new terms” – as in the case of climate and environmental protection, for example – “in the conceptual world of the Constitutional text. It can then be seen that the cross-sectional matter does not find coverage in any individual competence stock alone, but – across the entire division of competence – finds itself in various areas of competence of the B-VG.’ In Austria, this means that concerns of people with disabilities are very likely divided into the responsibility of the federal government as well as of national competences. The processing looks as follows: The Federation or the countries shall regulate each of those sections of the cross-sectional matter for which he or she is responsible or responsible according to the relevant terms of the B-VG in the division of competence. These topics are never solely in the responsibility of individual ministries, individual ministers. This would lead to the term “quarry cutting” ad absurdum. I can only agree with our Federal Minister, Mr Anschober, that the National Action Plan on Disability involves all ministries and sections. That is what the great criticism of the first NAP was. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But, of course, we MEPs are also called upon and asked to think and work in a cross-sectional manner, which cannot be addressed by four Members, in our case four speakers, for people with disabilities. It also raises the question of the responsibility of the housing facilities, the lines in the housing facilities, the care facilities, the facilities for people with Disability, day-to-day workshops. There have been very different interpretations and unfortunately suffering. It can't be said and emphasized often enough – I really recommend that – that you work interculturally. I also wanted to address measures put forward by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs: Among other things, 6 million euros have been added to ensure existing jobs; no costs for short-time work for disadvantaged people – if people with disabilities go into short-time work, it costs nothing, the AMS and SMS share the costs –; the increase in existing job security grants by 50 percent; a promotion for self-employed people with disabilities – which is at least 267 euros per month. Further measures – they are free if you want to – are the preparation of exceptions to the masquerade obligation and the distance rule when dealing with personal assistance. There, the masquerade obligation and the distance rule are not enforceable. There too, due to the crisis, rules were formulated for the respective situation of those concerned. And why? – Because the Federal Minister for Social Affairs has involved the affected. Even if everything hasn't gone right from the beginning, we'll take it with us. You can say to the Federal Minister and also to us that we want to have this examined for the future and will announce considerations about how this involvement is then secured and works. I can also say that this has unfortunately not worked in the crisis levels of the countries. Cross-section, including all of us. Perhaps you talk to the social representatives of the countries, ladies and gentlemen. We call across the bank, these are invisible, hourly, laborious conversations with relatives who are severely affected. Maybe you'll support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e57349	Next speaker: Mr Philip Kucher. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e57373	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I can ask you one question – we are in the middle of a pandemic and have discussed a lot about health in recent months: If all doctors in Austria warn of an operation if all medical professionals strongly disapprove of it if all medical universities disapprove of an operation, would anyone in Parliament say that we are doing it anyway? – No one would probably do that. In a professional group in Austria, which is now all very grateful, especially the ÖVP – these are the world champions in terms of gratitude, in other words, in large words, where there is nothing behind it – in the professional group of care, at once in the middle of this health crisis, Minister Schramböck starts to work around and to introduce a nursing teaching in the back, although all professional companies, all people who have been working in this field for years, say: [[Complaints with the SPÖ and with representatives of FPÖ and NEOS]] It's a joke to introduce a nursing instruction! So although everyone is convinced that this is a mess, you're driving over this professional group and you're saying that everyone can do that, even though we keep saying: We need more respect for care! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] Because the former Minister of the Interior is sitting in the first row, I ask: Who would have come up with the idea, then if we had a lack of personnel with the police, to say: Let's put 15- and 16-year-old boys and girls in a police uniform and say: Go for a criminal hunt! – That’s completely absurd! But when it comes to seriously ill people, Mrs. Schramböck is the great thinker, and you, Mr. Federal Minister, say that you currently have other things to do than take care of as a priority project. I'm critical in that Sebastian Kurz as a permanent burner always promises that something goes on, and then nothing happens. The point is: While you are now fighting around Corona, Minister Schramböck is apparently not responsible for the business sector, so to speak. We all notice every day how good it is when Mrs. Schramböck does something. No, she's driving around in the field of nursing, although everyone says that's stupid, so you can't work. What do I want to give you? – Let us not only talk about a great deal of appreciation for care professions in the crisis, but also about life! If you don't even have so much respect to take warnings seriously, and the ÖVP says: In reality, everyone can do that anyway! We want a nursing education because it's cheaper because it's wage dumping and a few people at the Economic Union have put that in their minds!, I have to say: Friends, you can't work like that! This is not the respect that people in the care sector deserved after they were there for all of us in the care crisis and in this Corona period 24 hours a day. That's not how it is!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e57430	Mr Norbert Siebergelang has now spoken. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e57455	Mr. Minister! Mr President. High house! Yes, dear Philip Kucher, it's pretty strong words when you talk about transflight. The care teaching is the second most popular of all forms in Switzerland, and it is absolutely successful. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cuckoo.]] In Vorarlberg, too, we have best examples of how care can work. I invite you, come to Vorarlberg, let's take a look at this together and talk to the young people! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cuckoo.]] In contrast to you, we are with people, we talk to people, and we will not let ourselves be forbidden by you to thank all these people, dear Philip Kucher. Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing the Chapter on Social Affairs and also the Chapter on Care – Mr Gödl has already discussed this subject in detail. I would like to pick out some of them, namely the 24-hour care, because in the discussion there are always arguments that I cannot stand, such as: precarious work situations, exploitation or modern slavery; this is sometimes presented here. I don't want to talk about this: There are black sheep, and we have to look carefully – I am grateful, Minister, that you have identified a roadmap of reform – but there are also, and for those I want to break a lance, positive examples, good agencies that make it excellent. One of them is, for example, an agency in Vorarlberg, namely, Landle care. This agency – I have a bill of it here – has to be transferred 2 751 euros per month. [[showing a document]] With these 2 751 euros the ride is also covered with, and the 24-hour supervisor receives 2 200 euros to 2 300 euros, depending on the degree of training. I think that's a very good salary. The caregiver must pay 550 euros per quarter to social security, taxes do not apply because the caregiver remains below the limit of 11 000 euros. If you now see that the nurses of this agency come from Serbia and these ladies at home have an average salary over all professional groups of 5 400 euros per year, then you can understand why they like to come to Austria. However, it is also important to me to stress that the seal of quality, which already exists for these agencies, is unfortunately only voluntary. I think it would be very important, Mr Minister, that this seal of goodness – we have also enshrined it in our government programme – be introduced and implemented by all agencies, so that black sheep who do, exploit and pull over the table do not have a chance for those women who do an invaluable job in our country. Dear Philip Kucher, because you mentioned this, I would like to say it again: I am now saying thank you to all these caregivers, especially two people, namely Vesna and Mira, in personal distress, who look after my parents with the greatest care. I thank them all with all my heart.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e57542	Mr Christian Ries. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e57566	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! In my opinion, consumer protection is still a step-motherly existence in Austria, and although we have a competent partner on our side with the VKI, it is always difficult to set up a proper budget from year to year. Mr. Federal Minister, at the joint request of FPÖ and SPÖ to establish a legal permanent financing of the VKI, we have already expected your support. But we are not talking about waste paper, we are talking about applied or not applied consumer protection. In terms of the Stop-Corona app, the population from your home would have expected more information. In my opinion, you should have been critical of the ÖVP plans by which the app was forced to be in the room. [[Federal Minister Anschober: Are they still there?]] Among other things, President Sobotka, like Mrs Mei-Pochtler, has been on the wrong track, because there can and must not be an obligation to have a tracking system loaded on his phone, even in a crisis. We know from Australia where at least six million people – and this can be compared with Austria in so far as some 6.5 million Austrians have a smartphone in use – have installed this app that this app didn't even keep close to what it promised. According to the magazine “Der Spiegel”, the app was successful in exactly one case. The amount of data stored is therefore in no relation to success, and in reality it is not even worth further discussion about it; but exactly this discussion could have ended with information. [[Federal Minister Anschober: Come on!]] Mr Federal Minister, you should have been working on another matter, in connection with the price drivers on the occasion of the Corona crisis. At first there was a certain panic, and suddenly masks, which, depending on the degree of protection, cost between 3 and 10 euros, cost a multiple. Hand disinfectants were partly traded like liquid gold. Now, if you look, you see: 1 litre costs about 10 euros, in times of peace. There was even a toilet paper as the target object of the Wucher, and in Germany price increases in food were observed. In many cases, which many Members have probably also come to the House, it would have been appropriate to take a systematic approach to consumer protection against these issues, because it has undoubtedly been tried on a number of occasions to make use of the trade situation and the forced use of many citizens to offer goods whose value was in no way at all at all at the price. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, with your consent, you can prevent the driving of prices in times of crisis! Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[14:40]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e57784	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you: Are there points on your copy as a bullet or is there 1., 2., 3., 4.? – All right, then we have the same request. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ries.]] The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Rudolf Anschober spoke on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e57821	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) To some remarks now a few responses, clarifications and answers from my page. It is important, I believe, for a good discourse in the National Council that we engage in each other. Mr Kucher has raised the issue of care teaching; from my side there is a very clear clarification: In this legislative period, there will be no nursing education in Austria, in which young people 15 years of age will work with patients and patients, a nursing education which is poor qualification and poor pay. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] On the other hand, we are working on a model in which we are moving towards a good qualification, a new training model for young people. We prepare this and work on it so that there is an additional access. I think that's right, but under the conditions I mentioned earlier, that's very essential and central. [[Abg. Kucher: So the specialized companies reject this?]] – You know this as well as I do to answer your call: The classic care teaching, which would correspond to a teaching that starts to work on the patient and with the patient at the age of 15, is rejected by the specialist societies, but exactly this model will not exist. Instead, we want a new model, which is already a bit oriented towards Switzerland, but for which we want to develop new cornerstones. We want better access for new stakeholders in view of these 75 000 people we need in Austria in the field of care. That is what we want to work out, this work process is already in progress, and I am happy to have a discussion with you in the committee responsible. It is important to me that we do not talk to each other, but I believe that we have similar situations of interest that we should bring together as much as possible. So this is one issue, another is what Mr Ries has referred to in his speech. Thank you for making the Stop-Corona app the subject. I therefore have the opportunity to speak about it, I am very, very happy to do so, because we need it. You will notice that the positioning of the Federal Government has moved very, very clearly in that there will be no forced app in Austria, and that is important to me. This is an important step of the Federal Government that there will be a voluntary app to complement our contact tracking measures that we realize. There will be a lot of information, because you are quite right, there is a need for information. Many citizens are unsure by the discussion whether the app is compulsory or not and what it means to them personally – and that only helps information, I think we have the same positioning. We want to implement this, and you'll hear a lot about it next week. The Red Cross is currently with the optimization of this app and this voluntary offer in the final phase, that should be from 15. All finished and finished June. There is also another presentation in the Committee so that we can look at the details together. As I think, Mr Eypeltauer has referred to a few very important measures, including the question of financial education. What we need are powerful consumers, and this requires information, education and training. I'll give you 100 percent, and we'll be on the same side. We want to expand this strongly in the next few years, because we are certainly not where we should be in Austria. The strengthening of the consumer is done by information, then he can actually use and use his power, so we go in a similar direction. What Mr Vogl has mentioned – I think it was Mr Vogl – is the question of travel freedoms, which is the problem of which situations arise for mechanites in matura travel: Yes, there will be many questions in this context. What we have ensured and clarified is that the VKI will also provide support for this group. I believe that the VKI is in this House, which I see with great joy, all in all, as our important consumer protection organisation in Austria is respected and respected. It is therefore also very, very important to me to note that we are very good on the road in securing and further developing this important organization and these great employees, who ensure that the VKI is strong. Our common concern will be long-term financial security, we are working on it, we must be guaranteed – everything else would be a disaster from my point of view, as we would weaken consumer protection. The VKI is irreplaceable for me in Austria, we need it as a strong organization, and we work for it. There is now a new managing director, and at the next meeting of the Consumer Protection Committee, we can look forward to what further development is like by the managing director et cetera. [[It is in favour of Greens and SPÖ, as well as of representatives of the ÖVP.]] My last point concerns debt advice, which has been discussed by you, colleague Vogl – we can also say in plenary session You – and it is very, very important. Debt advice is a central point, and in times like this it will have an even more important function. We are currently discussing debt advice, and I would definitely like to make a contribution to ensuring that, in the future, there will be a proper set-up to ensure that debt advice, which does a great job in all federal states and with the umbrella organisation, can fulfil this task. This is a question of budgeting and financing. The last point is something that will concern us for quite a long time, it's about dealing with the VW diesel scandal. This is a fundamental question in the field of consumer protection, because I believe that society and consumers cannot and cannot be offered such a course of action, so I have always been for a very consistent procedure. I am therefore very glad that in Austria there are now 16 collective complaints against VW in cooperation with and on behalf of my department and the Chamber of Labour – we are working together very well – in total against VW, which are currently pending. According to my information status, the European Court of Justice will soon decide whether the management of the complaint in Austria will be possible, that would be the crucial question. The Advocate General has already examined this question in the proceedings and we know that it is usually implemented, which the Advocate General or the Advocate General proposes each. Thus, the procedures, the collective complaints are currently largely interrupted by the ECJ's decision, but I am very optimistic that we will then carry out these procedures in Austria in a timely manner. You all heard – I think it was before yesterday – that a principle judgment was passed in Germany. For the first time, the German Federal Court of Justice has decided on the matter and, with extremely clear wording and grounds, has stated that damages are granted. This could thus become a way for tens of thousands of consumers, and this, in turn, shows that collective complaints are an extremely important opportunity to strengthen consumers in this situation. That is why we need a strong VKI who supports this, who carries out the consultation, and who does what it takes for consumers to get the individual to come to his right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e57871	The next speaker is Mr Christoph Zarits. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e57896	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take the opportunity to say thank you, although Mr Kucher does not think this is appropriate. I would like to thank you, Minister Anschober, also in the name of many people in my own family environment, in the name of many people in Burgenland and in my constituency. You gave people at the beginning of the crisis in mid-March at the press conferences, at their public appearances with your quiet and sensible kind, a lot of security in a very, very difficult time, and for that you really deserve thanks and recognition. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have come through the crisis better than other countries can see. The comparison makes us sure. We have put in place the right measures at the right time. It has been seen that the social state in Austria works well. We have seen that we have a health system that is one of the best in the world. We have seen that the authorities and also the institutions are working in Austria. I think we all, the Austrians, can appreciate all of us who live in Austria. We have decided on many measures, and there will certainly be many more measures to get through the crisis. It has already been discussed very, very much today, also the corona short work, which is unique, through which we have secured over a million jobs. We have also put in place measures for people who are not well in everyday life, for those who have already been unemployed, for those who would drift into emergency aid. We have managed to raise emergency aid to the level of unemployment insurance. To the colleagues of NEOS, I must say that I thank God for having a very different opinion on pensions: I believe that people who have worked hard for their lives should also have a decent pension from which they can live properly. It's clear to us, too: The people of the generation of my parents and my grandparents have built this state, this social state, and that is why we have come through the crisis so well. That must also be said. And as far as care is concerned, it is clear that those people who have built this state who have developed prosperity when they need help and care in old age will also get them – for this the Federal Government stands for that, says Mr. Anschober. I trust the government, I'm good things we're doing the comeback for Austria. A warm thank you for the work so far! I am convinced that we will take the right steps in the next few weeks and months. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e57947	The next speaker is Mrs Petra Wimmer. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e57971	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Many desperate people have turned to us in recent weeks because they are worried about their future. Short-term work and unemployment have brought major financial losses to people. The savings, if available, are quickly exhausted, and financial bottlenecks can quickly build up to debt. Not all people are able to get hold of the finances themselves in such a situation, and if you don't know what to do anymore, you turn to debt advice. A competent, comprehensive and integrated social environment is tried to get the debt under control and, at the best, to eliminate it. Due to the current crisis situation, it should be feared that, unfortunately, even more people are in financial difficulties. Many support measures that have been announced as quick and unbureaucratic – for example, because I think of the family hard balance – do not arrive or arrive very late among people. Accordingly, the debtor's consultations have greater scope and need more resources and financial resources. An increase in the financial support of the umbrella association and the financial security of the national organizations is therefore more than justified and necessary, and I am pleased that you, Mr Minister, have also expressed your willingness to do so. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[14:54]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e58075	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. It is now Mr Mag. Klaus Fürlinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e58102	High Bureau! Mr. Minister! I would like to come back to the beginning of the debate, because I have already felt it to be quite disturbing, which has been set up here in the direction of the Christian social ÖVP, namely that social policy does not vote. – In this situation, in this truly veritable crisis, we have, together with our government partner at many levels, made sure that the weakest of our society are cared for. I only remember measures such as the Family Hard Fund with twice EUR 30 million, I recall raising emergency aid at unemployment benefit level – this also brings EUR 110 million to those affected. We've been in the middle. April all the effort was made to ensure that those most affected by this crisis did not stay on track and remain. I think ladies and gentlemen, we have done this well so far. I think it is totally missing to believe that first only the symptoms are to be fought. Of course, what we need to fight is the causes, and the cause of unemployment is that there are too few jobs. A certificate of performance of this Federal Government is a very essential one, ladies and gentlemen: We have brought more than 65 000 people out of unemployment back to work in the last four weeks alone, and that is the very best! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] There is a sense to human life when there is an employment; then we do not need to talk about social assistance or other things, for that is the important thing, and, ladies and gentlemen, that is the only truth. The old saying: Social is what creates work!, it's still true. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e58153	The next speaker is Mr Dietmar Keck. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e58178	Mr President. Federal Minister! We have heard a lot about the older generation today, about our pensioners, we have talked a lot about care, and we have also heard that we should deal more fairly with each other, also with our older generation. I read again a mail that I have received, which has really made me very, very concerned: Ladies and gentlemen, it is a great concern for me to draw your attention to the fact that all the relief measures currently announced weekly must not be forgotten to the residents of the nursing homes. They are the persons to be protected, which is true, but they also include protection from loneliness, depression, despair and self-task. How much time do some of the old man still have, even without corona virus, to be able to spend the days meaningfully in the circle of his family? 15 minutes or 30 minutes to be presented to one of his relatives as a prisoner? There is a need to rely on home mind and self-responsibilities of all concerned. Some would like to spend his remaining time in the garden of his children on so many sunny afternoons or sit in a garden with his family. But all caregivers in the homes and the cleaning staff represent the same danger for the inhabitants as the relatives who want to visit their people. I therefore expect more freedom for the inhabitants. They have deserved to have a worthy existence as long as they can still experience it, and their relatives must be given back the opportunity to spend the common still remaining time in a reasonable way with their loved ones. As now, this is unbearable and unworthy. I'm personally affected. We do not know how much time our father remains, who suffers from bladder cancer, now lives because of his physical weakness after some falls in the home, but is spiritually healthy. We can spend a lot of time together because I live close to home, and we all want to give him half a lifetime. There are swimming pools, fitness centre, national borders open, football games, but the old people we leave locked up like criminals in their rooms or in this institution their valuable perhaps very low lifetime. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What's the lower evil? Enjoy a nice time, then perhaps to die of Corona, or to have to live in solitary confinement for a few more years? With friendly greetings – quotations. Many have signed this letter. Rudi, I've read such emails many times. This mail has also received your citizens' service. This mail was also sent to the head of the state of Lower Austria. The senders did not receive any answers. I really have the request: Let's do it now! It is necessary to restore human dignity to the people of this generation, who, we have heard before, have built Austria, and to enable them to meet with their families.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e58226	The next speaker is Mr Andreas Kühberger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e58250	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians! Yes, Mr Keck, we also appreciate our older generation. I am mayor myself, and there are many seniors of the SPÖ and the Freedom Party who come to me and say: You, we're very proud of what your chancellor does. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] He's doing good work in this country! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keck.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] But now I want to come to my consumer protection speech. I have been able to talk yesterday about the importance of our local, Austrian food, about how important it is for security of supply in Austria. But they are also important for our economic location Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, if we all bought 20 percent more domestic food, this would create 46 000 new jobs. I am thinking of unemployment, but I am also thinking of GDP: plus EUR 4.6 billion! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] In fact, we all come in here and here in Austria we have this in our hands, where we go shopping, whether we grab on domestic foods or we buy meat from mega-farms from America, perhaps from Brazil, or our soya product from the rainforest, where thousands of hectares of hectares are burned. [[Abg. Vogl:... apologise! ...!]] We got this in our hands. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] In reality, however, these foods are not favourable, because they will be expensive later when transport routes and environmental destruction in climate change and in health come down. As a six-fold family father, I am also aware of what it means for the next generations that they may have to repay this price twice or triple. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Deputies Ernst-Dziedzic and Rössler.]] Of course, as a politician, we are required to ensure that costs are true, and we also have many solutions: We are committed to the introduction at EU level of CO2 tariffs and the labelling of origin on food. The Federal Government is also working out a regional bonus to favour regional food tax. Ladies and gentlemen, this would be important not only for agriculture, but also, as has been said, for the economic location. Whoever buys cheaply often buys really expensive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e58331	Mr Hechenberger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e58352	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! But especially in the field of consumer protection: Estimated consumers! Before I'm allowed to start, I'm allowed to wish all the good things – I've experienced it myself at home – to the approaching maturant. They are currently experiencing hard times and hard hours, and I hope that many of them of these days will successfully create the Matura. [[In the case of the ÖVP, MEPs of the Greens and the Agg. Light peace.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the crisis has clearly shown where there are weaknesses. A weakness that we must recognize is the total dependence in the area of drugs. Medicines come partly from countries outside Europe, and therefore, I think, we also have to think about how we are going to get there in the future. I am very glad that a large international pharmaceutical group is active in my environment and that it is now ready to invest again. – Thank you for that! Many of my friends have their living income there, work there, have a safe job there. On the other hand, the 100% security of supply of regional, high-quality food has been positive. For this reason, one thing is clear to me: We need a mandatory, comprehensible designation of origin, if we want to have the certainty to be able to consume food from the region in the future. What's a little thoughtful of me: We have discussed this very intensively in the Health Committee. Many parties voted in favour, unfortunately the SPÖ was not willing to carry the mandatory designation of origin. I hope that the camouflage and culprits in the food sector will end and that we will create real transparency for our consumers with the mandatory designation of origin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e58396	I do not have any more words to say about subheadings 21 and 22. The discussions on this issue have therefore ended. [[15:05:20]] UG 24: Health
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e58417	We're going to subdivided 24: Health. Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e58441	Mr President, I would like to thank you for the kind introduction. Ladies and gentlemen! Finance Minister Blümel has presented us with a budget – we are discussing it today – to which he has explained to all of us that he has already thrown it into the dreary himself, because we are in the middle of the corona crisis, therefore, unless it is up-to-date. Last night, he got tougher, came up over the night, that he had to change it, because it's not constitutional. But so is Finance Minister Blümel – all entrepreneurs know that – he does not seem to be able to do better. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] But why is it still exciting that we are discussing the health budget today? – This health budget, which we are discussing today, has been cobbled before Corona, and do you know what's exciting? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lopatka.]] Today, everyone will tell a great deal that health is very, very important to all of us, but if you look at what is really happening under Sebastian's health in short, then that's nothing. It's hot air! There has been 100 billion euros as a pure re-death. But to all the things Sebastian Kurz has promised during the election campaign, to the same good performance for all – I wondered, when Sebastian Kurz said at least in the election campaign, we needed equally good achievements; also Minister Anschober said that we needed equally good services for all people in Austria – was no longer a word to read in the government program. It was thought that this might have been a mistake, but we did not find anything in the budget either. To all that has been promised, what you see differently today, there has been no improvements in the budget: no equal benefits for all, for free vaccinations is nothing inside, for the improvement of psychotherapeutic care is not a single euro inside, for the further development of the profession of health professionals is nothing inside. I say it quite openly, I want to warn and really ask all the parties: If we don't want to sleep from a health crisis to the next, I really ask that we all ensure the financing of our hospitals and social insurance, because it can't be that in the final effect then, as has already been announced by business representatives, either the doctor should pay the bill or that we have performance reductions and perhaps have to close hospital locations. There is now a budget for all areas. Where is the additional budget for health? - Nothing happens! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My last warning: If, in the background, there are already people like Mrs. Mei-Pochtler who, during the health ministry and everyone else, are still working to get us all to master the health crisis with each other, are commissioned to put the health care of the future in a neoliberal think tank for Sebastian Kurz – these people who have explained to all of us for years that health is just a cost factor: Let's save, patients, all this costs a lot of money! Then we all have to be careful. While we are fighting here, they are already working very hard in the background on their neoliberal agenda. So let's be careful!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e58506	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e58527	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen at home! First of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister on a staff decision which, I believe, became official only one or two hours ago: Mr. Ines Stilling, former transitional minister and high official at the Ministry, will become a new Secretary-General. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and MEPs from ÖVP, SPÖ and NEOS.]] Competence builds party policy – this is also green work. - So much for it. Next, to what Mr Kucher said: So little! – That’s right, yes, the whole pot in Austria contains about 42 billion euros, as much as the health care system does. 42 billion euros: That is what we spend in Austria for medicines, treatments, operations, prevention measures et cetera. 42 billion euros, of which 11 billion euros are privately estimated, and about 31 billion euros – such as the calculation – come from the public sector, whether through transfers, taxes or any insurance. But: Only 1.2 billion euros are in this budget. We both have already discussed what this is all about: what I mentioned on Tuesday. In Austria, we have a massively small-scale system, in which a lot of actors are involved, and the Federation is one of them. The federal government has a budget of 1.2 billion euros. The 3 percent of the whole cake is measured at 42 billion euros. This also explains, Mr Loacker, why the Minister is, in fact, a moderator and not the one who simply buys and says: Jump, hop and do! – This too, for we all know that who pays, creates. If we talk about the EUR 1.2 billion, we'll talk about what this is all about. – It is about this budget, as Mr Kucher has rightly said, that the cost to Corona has not yet been taken into account for Covid-19. In other words, the EUR 400 million that we will need for the acquisition of disinfectants, protective clothing and cetera, is not yet included. It is also, of course, the need for money that we will need in the future to compensate for the loss of revenue resulting from this crisis. What we need to talk about in this context is: What must be the goal of our health care, where should the journey with the health care system, as we have here in Austria, go? – From my point of view, from the point of view of the Greens, the goal is that we have a soundly funded health care that is accessible to all; that is to say, not a division in the poor, rich, land, city, but a health care that is accessible and tangible to all. [[Abg. Cake: Now the ÖVP has to listen...!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That is, we need appropriate measures, as we have also set out in the government programme. These include primary care centres, community education, the upgrading of non-medical professions, the expansion of the offer of psychotherapy and clinical psychology – very important! – and also the expansion of prevention medicine. That is what we have come to know, and that is what we are standing for. But these are things that do not necessarily become budget-relevant immediately, because, as I said at first, they are implemented and co-financed over all the small-scale organisations that depend on them. However, we will all have to decide on the measures here. We also need to clarify the question of how we are going to compensate for the costs that have now arisen in the course of the pandemic fight, which have just arisen, and the deficits. I would like to join with my colleagues, Mr Koza, who meant Tuesday, that we must discuss tabooly what we do on the revenue side. That is what I am right about, Mr Koza, and we will have to talk taboo about new sources of revenue. We will also need to discuss how it can be that healthcare is currently financed only by income from work and, for example, does not share capital income. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] We'll have to change that. This discussion I put myself in, I also go boldly in, because what's so beautiful with us Greens: Future will be made of courage!Unknown term type: "%s".? Let's go boldly into the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e58592	Mr Kaniak is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e58613	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Schalmeiner said that there are still a lot of things we need to discuss in the field of health, how we can improve the income and expenditure situation and how we can also shape and finance the structure of our health care in the future. Mr Schallmeiner, we now have intensive budget discussions behind us for a week and a half, unfortunately God's misrepresentation of totally false figures, as the Minister of Finance has told us. Nevertheless, we should have held this discussion in the last one and a half weeks and should not have moved it into the future. Mr. Anschober meant that he wanted to work on the basis of facts, see numbers first and then make decisions. – Mr Federal Minister, I call you a few figures that are relevant to you, and on the basis of these figures you have to act politically, because it is your budget. The current budget estimate for 2020 is available for the Ministry of Health, for you, an amount of EUR 1 231.6 million. This doesn't sound so little at first sight, only let me face what has already been spent in your place in the first three months of this year, and the Corona crisis has hardly occurred: That was 343.4 million euros for the first quarter. Now we do not need high mathematical knowledge to calculate that if you simply calculate these costs linearly, without further special burdens, you will have a financing requirement for 2020 in the order of EUR 1 373,6 million. Is there something you'll notice, Mr. Minister? – There is a lack of 142 million euros in the current budget, even with the most conservative linear calculation of the first quarter. Unfortunately, in one point I must disappoint you: I have looked at the amendments tabled by the ÖVP to the current budget. Your department, the Ministry of Health, the UG 24, is not covered with any single euro. That means you won't get any extra money, so I'll ask you: How do you intend to drive this 142 million euros until the end of the current financial year? What benefits do you want to reduce so that you get less with 142 million euros? How do you want to pay the costs for all the corona tests, for the protective equipment and the medical equipment ordered by Mr Schallmeiner at just over 400 million euros? How do you want to finance the necessary additional resources for the Ages? How do you want to pay for the already ordered vaccines? How would you like to finance the additional prevention and information campaigns you have announced? I am not talking at all about the possible cost cover for social security or health insurance; I am not yet talking about the additional cost of the treatment backlog that happened because of the lockdown in health care; I am not talking about the necessary investment incentives, so that we can reform our health system in such a way that the next crisis will be even better; and I am not yet talking about the costs necessary to ensure the supply of medicinal products and the supply of medical products. Mr President, if I were in your place, I would not sit here so quietly, I would be very concerned about how to finance it all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In order to give some emphasis to the whole thing and perhaps also to ask you to think more about it, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[15:18]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e58856	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Schwarz is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e58880	Mr President. Minister! High house! Dear Seers! First of all, a clarification to Mr Kaniak: You said if you were sitting here, you wouldn't be so quiet anymore. I can only say one thing: We are all very glad that Rudolf Anschoberal's minister is sitting here. I am very pleased because the cooperation with him is extremely constructive, as you have also heard in the Health Committee, where your suggestions and ideas are very likely to be included. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Where exactly? Where exactly, what suggestions?- Oh, my God!]] Even if Mr Kucher thinks we thank too much, I think you can't thank Philip too often for certain things; I think it is necessary to thank people who maintain this solid health system especially during these times. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kucher]] I'm sure you agree. One can only say thank you to all those people – and not often enough – who have proved in recent weeks how valuable and solidary our health system is: I am talking about the medical profession, both in the established and in the hospital, and I am talking about all those in the care professions, but also about the caring families who have also taken over a lot of things, about the rescue organizations, social security schemes and so on. Today, on the day of women's health, I would like to thank women in particular, for we know that a large proportion of medicine is female. Women take on a lot of responsibility, even as single mothers, for their families, for their children, for example, in the field of prevention. Yes, it's right, we've dealt very much with the issue of prevention in the coalition negotiations – that starts with nutrition and goes to exercise. I believe that each and every one of us is also called upon to contribute in our own responsibility, namely not only to go to the doctor when it is necessary, but perhaps to consider once, to make a precautionary examination, to take the steps instead of taking the lift, to make a daily unit of movement – that starts in childhood and ends in old age – because our all goal must be that we get healthy old. Another topic that Philip Kucher addressed – Philip?; now he's busy, but it's still important – it's mental health. Yes, you're perfectly right, we're going to try to get all the professional groups that have to do with mental health – from the psychiatric system to psychology to psychotherapy; for example, we know that child and youth psychiatrics are a defect, this condition is urgently fixed – to get to a table. [[Abg. Cake: But when?]] – Even before the summer; I invite you to join us in a first round of talks on this issue: How can we all deal with this issue together? Of course, we need more cash-financed treatment sites, we know. It must not be a taboo either if you have a mental illness or if you are affected, I think it is extremely important. There is a need for all professional groups, as we also need our consent and our participation: How can we really put it in a position to ensure that everyone and everyone – no matter what age, what income, which sex – in Austria comes to care and treatment that is due to him or her? As I said, you are cordially invited to do this with us, because all of us are also very important for mental health in Austria. I am pleased that the Minister has really committed himself to doing this with us as soon as possible. – Thank you very much for this and thanks you very much for your cooperation now. [[towards Abg. Kucher]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e58951	The next item is the speech by Mr Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e58972	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! The Federal Ministry of Social Affairs, Health and Press Conferences – which is probably the “PK” at the end of the accelerator – has held 60 press conferences so far, otherwise the success balance is rather modest. Her predecessor would have been shot by the sun and the moon for what you had delivered. [[I should like to congratulate Members of the NEOS and the FPÖ.]] There is still nothing to do to bring together the data for the settled and the hospital area in such a way that one can read from it something about the patient, so the risk group definition was such a theatre. We needed weeks – if it had happened at all – to answer a request from the Charité in Berlin regarding cooperation in the matter of Corona. They reject regional strategies for the rise of the country, everyone wants to shave over a comb. Of course, people don't understand your actions when in a district where there are no coronary diseases for weeks, the same as in hotspots. The 15 000 daily PCR tests that have been promised do not take place either, I would rather not talk about the comprehensive antibody tests – to your protection – because otherwise I would have to go into what you ordered in China. Now to the budget: Mr Schwarz mentioned the prevention. Prevention accounts for exactly 1 per cent of your budget, so you can manage well, but it obviously doesn't matter because you don't like to control it; You'd rather watch. I mentioned this in the previous speech, “Storms, ” and I think it is. We could also control Austria's health, because the Austrian health structure plan is being developed there, where the regional health structure plans are being developed together with the countries and the cash registers, but the funds are even reduced in the GÖG. Then there would be another control lever – if you would like to use it, you could, but you would like to look at it and look at how you write it to me in response to questions – the Federal Health Agency. There the national health funds are distributed to the national health funds, without any fixed keys since 1997, because nothing is controlled, achieved, linked to quality goals, nothing, it is simply pressed on transfers – as it was always. It's being watched, looked at, continued looking. The Minister for Health could rule, he should be in charge, and in this sense I put the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[15:24]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e59105	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs El-Nagashi is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e59131	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, seers and seers! “The End of Meat Is Lord”, the end of meat, now – the “New York Times” writes these days in view of the massive shock caused by this pandemic that Covid-19 brought with it, and in view of the system change, the fundamental system change, the command of the hour is: the end of meat, the end of meat consumption, mass animal husbandry, rain forest routings for feed, antibiotic resistance, the transmission of bacteria and diseases from animals to humans and zoonoses such as Covid-19. Mass animal husbandry and its huge amounts of CO2 emissions are one of the main reasons for climate change. A vegetable diet is a contribution that everyone and everyone can make to the fight against climate change, but it is also a contribution that can be made through appropriate political support – that is, the promotion of vegetable nutrition. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Meat production institutionalizes the most precarious working conditions in the slaughterhouses, as we see it again from the discussions in Germany, in the slaughterhouses in which in minutes, if not in the second cycle, a work carried out by migrants, by migrant workers. This is part of the old normal: the systemic and systematic abuse, exploitation and killing of animals, the destruction of the environment, climate and biodiversity, water destruction and groundwater pollution, swine flu, bird flu, Ebola, Corona. “If you care about the working party, about racial justice, and about climate change, you have to stop eating animals.” – This is what the “New York Times” writes. Or else: It takes a politicization of the animal question. To date, the popular animal welfare desire of 1996 is one of the most successful popular desires in Austria. Almost half a million people have called on politics not to take human life seriously. The policy has responded to the 2005 Federal Animal Protection Act: Pelt-farm ban, cage-keeping ban on laying hens, ban on wild animals in circuses are examples of the legal anchoring of animal welfare policies, exemplary in Europe and possible by committed political civil society. The last steps in this direction are, however, far too long, in the past. Since then, a lot has been stagnated, and there have even been deterioration in animal welfare in animal transport, in chick rescue for the egg industry, in an intoxication of piglets, in the case of overcrowded mastals, in pig farming, in breeding, in the breeding of cattle, in the production of putons, in the driving of animals with electric shockers in slaughterhouses. There are five million slaughtered pigs per year in a country with nine million inhabitants – unimaginable five million! Mushrooms, milkings, battles in sealed buildings, millions of times a year: We know why we don't see what we don't want to see. In 2013, animal welfare was established as the overarching national objective of constitutional law. Animal welfare is not a special topic for animal lovers, it is a feminist topic as well as a human rights issue, a climate protection and environmental protection issue, part of the food transition and the agricultural transition, a matter of health and global justice, a condition for good life for really everyone. In this sense, the challenge will be to use not only the animal welfare budget for animal health, animal welfare and animal rights, but also in all areas. to work holisticly and for all on a socially just, sustainable and solidary world.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e59185	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e59207	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you for this very constructive health debate, which we have held here, which we have largely conducted. I would like to express my sincere thanks to the last three speakers: Colleague Black – the epitome of co-operation in health policy – thank you for your very pleasant and cooperative cooperation; Mr Loacker, I always appreciate his word-wit. It's a little bit like that, I think. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: His expertise too!]] – His expertise, too, I don’t reduce him to Word White, absolutely, everything clear! – I do not always agree with his positions, but that is a perfectly normal situation, the normal political discourse. Faika, thank you, you show us links. This is extremely important and good in such a debate, in which we are often in detail. - Thank you for that. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We have probably never had a situation like in recent months, in which a broad population group in Austria and politics itself was so clear that there is nothing more important than health. It was really very, very positive that we had discussions in March, April, which were actually clear to everyone: There is a priority, that is the protection of health. It's good that we learned that we had this basic conviction together. I think we should take this with us in the spirit for the next few years, because there are many problems before us, including with regard to the financial security of this solidary health system. This must be our first priority: ensuring a high-quality health system, ensuring a system in which everyone has equal access, no one is discriminated against and there is no two-, three- or four-class medicine. Especially in the crisis, we have learned how important this equal access and the importance of this solidary health system is in fact in the highest quality. In other words, for the future, financial security will be the main requirement for us. For the future, something will also be a major requirement for us, which is probably what every predecessor and predecessor of me has said. Our aim is that we now live to implement it, namely to tackle prevention very, very offensively, to tackle the precautionary measures offensively. I believe that there are many partners at the most diverse levels for this too – also upset by the current health crisis. I think it is very, very good that there seems to be a fundamental consensus in this House, that we need to focus on mental health. Of course, it was and is so that, for example, Corona also became visible in this area, how many people are in difficult situations that cannot afford to finance private psychotherapy, which cannot afford to be able to do what they would need. They still feel that there is taboo in this country and that there is no equality with conventional diseases. I can simply talk about it normally when I break my foot, but for many it is a difficulty to talk about mental illness, to stand for it and to claim the treatment he or she deserves. That is what we need, for which we want to fight, we want to achieve it together. [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as SPÖ Members.]] It's not over with the corona virus at all. We're still in the middle of the pandemic. We currently have 5.6 to 5.7 million sufferers worldwide. We have thousands of deaths in the world every day. We have the gratifying situation that we are currently largely in control of the virus. But be careful, that doesn't mean it's automatic. The virus has not been extracted from Austria, has not gone on vacation, but it is still here. Through individual cluster formations, as in the last few days at the Cluster in Vienna and Lower Austria, we now have a very, very good work process between the authorities of the two countries on the one hand and the Ages, which now for the first time has a central function in the innovation of the Epidemic Law, which has been decided by you, in cross-border outbreaks. This is also done with the involvement of the Ministry of the Interior. I am very glad that in the real work, not the pre-election arms are practised, but that the topic, namely the limitation of the pandemic, is the focus. That's what everyone sticks to, and that's what they're doing. It was discussed the question of regionalization. I take it very seriously, very seriously, what the national leaders will propose to us – I hope – in the next few days. It has been promised, and of course we will also take a very consistent approach to it and examine what makes sense. We only need to avoid that there is a contradiction between different measures and different rules, because it is already very difficult for the individual concerned to find out through the specific rules. That is why we are also examining where we can simplify, where we can make the measures even better, so that it becomes easier for the individual concerned to understand and also more acceptable. We will soon be able to present the results of the work. It is very important, in my view, that we continue this course of gradual openings, of controlled openings. The next stage will become reality tomorrow with a wide range of affected areas – from culture to sport to all other events. I hope it works just as well as before, because we have not had significant increases in the number of infections through any opening step. The goal must be to combine the gradual return to normality, social normality well with safety before a virus spread. To do this we need contact tracking, we need our Containment strategy. At the same time, the Austrian authorities are becoming more and more professional and faster in all areas, especially in the districts. Moreover, we have today been able to present a modeling of the forecasting expert Dr. Popper, who is recognised and accepted in Austria. Dr. Popper has looked at himself – just as was presented in Germany last week by a prestigious institute, the Max Planck Institute, – as the time of the definition and implementation of the concrete serious measures we have anchored in mid-March. As in Germany, the analysis goes exactly in the direction that it was the right time. If we had waited only a week longer – you have to imagine that in detail – if we had responded a week later, we would have had up to a quadruple positive test results from Corona Falls, and the utilization of intensive care stations in Austria would have reached its limits. That is to say, it is always about this three-step action: right action, right time and commitment with the people who have taken great measures. That is why these measures were as successful at the end of the day as they were. We made this phase one very, very good. We are now on a good path, and I hope that we will continue to find so successful and positive through the crisis, so that on the one hand we can protect the population and at the same time the freedoms and these normalities of our lives, which we enjoy in our society, which belongs to us, can bring us back to work as quickly as possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e59251	Mr Keck is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e59273	Mr President. Federal Minister! Col. El-Nagashi, it's all right, everything you said. But we will also measure your words by whether or not deeds follow. We have proposals in the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which will be held in June. I would, of course, also expect your group to agree to these requests, that they will also treat them positively and that they will not be tabled or rejected here in plenary. There are applications which include the prohibition of chick rescue, there are applications for the abolition of intoxication-free piglets castration, and, and, We have done a lot in this area. We will see whether these words also follow actions. Animal welfare is, as I said, a topic of my heart's blood, and I know it's also a topic of the Minister's heart blood. Of course, I looked at the animal protection budget. Unfortunately, unlike the previous years, there has not been much. The only shift is that the amounts of the animal protection price are used to help associations suffering from the corona crisis over the rounds. That's 65 000 euros, and these 65 000 euros, dear Rudi, I've now added to 300 clubs – we've got a lot more in Austria that's in need – and they don't even make a dayration food they need to get over the rounds. Because these associations need enormous help to help them, I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I can tell you, Rudi, there are many clubs that have turned to me who have told me: If they don't get support soon, they'll have to kill animals because it's no longer different. In a state like Austria where a lot of money is spent, where there are tax havens for business meals, and, and, it cannot be that we have no resources available for these animals. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Moreover, the budget is not certain because there is an amendment by the government groups. I therefore assume that animal welfare is also taken into account there, that we have more resources of these 28 billion euros available for animal welfare in order to be able to save animals that are really in need. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[15:42]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e59376	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly implemented, and is therefore under negotiation. Member Smolle has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e59402	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Health as a very essential aspect has probably never become as aware as in recent weeks and months. The health budget has also been increased, and I would like to focus briefly on a global budget which is not the largest. It may, however, show that the importance of an area is not necessarily one to one with the size of the budgetary coverage. That's what I'm talking about controlling the health system. In our health care, there are actually three networks that pick us up and protect us when an infection sprinkles and spreads. I'm starting with the last network, the third network. These are our health service providers, the established area, the hospitals. They catch people who really suffer, who need treatment up to intensive care. The second network on this is the network of health authorities. These are those people who are becoming particularly important right now and are careful to ensure that clusters do not spread out, that they are well identified and that they can be quickly limited and that the necessary protection measures are taken. These, in turn, are very closely related to the central control. In the case of all the subsidiarity we have in the health sector, it has just recently become apparent how important this central coordination is. The first network, the highest and most important, is what we all, all the people we live in this country, contribute by paying attention to one another, protecting one another's own health and health. We have proved this very clearly by keeping to the requirements and thus really donating a very dense net. I would particularly like to point out that it will be very much on this second network of health authorities, in cooperation with the executive, when we go into the easing, which is a very encouraging step. I would like to thank the people who work there and whom we have almost never spoken about. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Last but not least, a brief look at the objectives of impact: There is an effect target number one, namely a solidaric health system accessible to all. This is an important goal for all of us, to whom we confess. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e59449	Mr Ecker has been mentioned in the debate. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e59470	Mr President. Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the hall and at home! Women also have a right to health equal opportunities. That is why I have now brought you a number of issues relating to the health budget, particularly women. Violence in the hospitals – a taboo theme. That's where the silent heroes miss out on your loud signals, Minister. There are verbal but also physical violence as well as sexual harassment. The victims are mostly women. There are studies and surveys that you, Minister, certainly know. Where are the measures in the budget that protect against this in the health field? Many people in the care and health system make a very competent and warm contribution every day to the health of the patients, and I would like to thank them at this point. Only a small part of the health budget relates explicitly to women's health. Of course, the action plan on women's health is important. We have already tabled a motion for a resolution to that effect today. The implementation targets, which are set at 20 percent this year, are to be achieved. The targets for implementation in the previous year were 15 percent, and this makes for thought. The most common cancer in women is breast cancer. Of these, 5 000 are women each year. Therefore, voluntary and free mammography is an indispensable offer, but it needs to be applied much more so that every woman really makes use of it. We're still going after that. As a preventive measure, HPV vaccination in the fight against cervical cancer is an essential achievement for younger women. What else does it look like with precautionary programs? For example, with an osteoporosis study for under 50 years old? Mr. Health Minister! How important is the health of women who kept our country running and keeping it in the course of this crisis really to you? For women in particular, it takes other medications or treatment methods, other diagnostics. In our health system, a lot of men are tested. Special effects on women are too little researched. However, women also have a right to health equal opportunities. Additional projects are needed to strengthen your own health competence. I also mentioned in the Committee that we need a meaningful overview of the health status of young women, just as we have with the young men through the federal army investigation. How should you, Mr Minister, otherwise know what preventive measures are needed to strengthen women's health or to improve it in the field of projects? A coordinated strategy is needed to bring health care back to life, quickly. What about the dates for planned and postponed operations? The aim must be that all people in our country are well cared for in the hospitals, in the ordinations, in the hospitals, despite and with Corona. Through the lockdown there will be a large collated damage, financial and health. Especially women always take care of the others first, and only when everything goes again do they think of themselves. It is to be feared that they just ignore the health alarm signs and therefore suffer the most from the health consequences. “The worst rule is that of habit,” wrote Publilus Syrus. [[Abg. Lightness: Who said that?]] That's what I'm talking about in trade and everywhere. [[Abg. Lightness: Who said that?]] The rule of the mask must not become a habit. As Minister of Health, they were unable to give me an adequate answer in the Committee on Health Conditions for the Protection of Workers. However, they confirmed the pictures of faces with mask impressions, the load of eyeglasses by the exhaust air as well as rashes and allergies from the germs around the mouth area, which stick to the mask and remain in the face. Is there not a Masks Directive on the Health Protection of Employees? Obviously not, just masking duty. – That concludes, Minister, for the benefit of our health, finally with the obligation of mask!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e59530	Mrs Diesner-Wais is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e59551	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the National Council! The Corona crisis has clearly shown us how important a well-functioning and stable health system is for a country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] Our health system in Austria has proved its worth. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] It was often criticized that we have a too high number of beds, but that was good in this case. [[Abg. Loacker:... 10 percent!]] I would particularly like to thank all the employees who worked in the health system during the crisis, but not only during the crisis, but day by day. A warm thank you! [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of Greens and SPÖ.]] The Covid-19 Pandemic will bring about changes in the health breakdown. We have already heard today that due to the purchase of protective equipment, because of testing, we have additional expenditure, but we also have less revenue through a lower tax revenue and this has an impact on the hospital's contribution. An increase in the budget is foreseen by 10.2 percent. It is particularly important to implement the tax reform. The reduction of the SV contributions, which is in the budget, resulted in a discharge of the agricultural and commercial holdings, which have for years been falling in income. In particular, the social security contribution is an important factor that family farms have a perspective for the future, and our farms and commercial farms can continue to exist, which is something very important. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Anger.]] For this reason, health insurance contributions have been reduced from 7.65 per cent to 6.8 per cent. Some 130 000 farms benefit from this in agriculture. In the Waldviertel this means: If a holding has a uniform value of 20 000, then the EUR 331 per year is less paid in social security. I would also like to inform you, Mr Minister, that it is important that we implement as soon as possible the reduction in the minimum contribution base in health insurance, so that even small businesses located in the countryside, in mountain and in disadvantaged areas have a chance to continue to operate, because they often do not even produce as much as the social security contributions make up. A second concern: We need good conditions for our doctors, especially in rural areas, so that we can continue to find enough doctors there and ensure good health care for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e59610	I call Mrs Oomen-Ruijten on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e59631	Mr President. High house! Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators! Health does not come without care. Care professionals are health professionals, so I allow myself to re-theme the care. In the last committee meetings, I have heard that a comprehensive care concept after the Corona crisis is at the top of Minister Anschhober's To-do list. I am already looking forward to the presentation of this concept, but until then I would like to give a few things along the way. The issue of care not only concerns old people, it often also affects children and people with disabilities. We must not forget about caring relatives here. It is around 960 000 people. I reach numerous addresses from desperate parents, nurses, caregivers who are asking for help because they are not being considered again in the crisis. They feel left alone by the government, even though it should be a government that takes all people into account. I therefore ask that people with disabilities do not always find comfort in their important concerns at better times, for that seems to be the strategy of this government. But now from the large group of caring families to the established care professions, which politics also likes to forget: We're just talking about the budget chapter health. Most people understand hospitals and established doctors. But the world doesn't stop after the medical garden fence. It is always forgotten that therapists, pharmacists and care take over a large part of the settled care. While pharmacists are still quite well rewarded by social insurance and therapists are half-way, care looks almost completely through the fingers. The supply of wounds therefore takes place almost exclusively in hospitals, because the remuneration is missing in the settled area. Especially in times of lack of established doctors, it could be very well compensated for over a comprehensively qualified care in the established area. What is missing is a billing catalogue of care with social security. Med Uni Graz has made the effort to bring together the range of services of primary care in the international environment. A total of 17 different areas of primary care activity have been achieved from the survey work. These are wound management, management of patients with chronic diseases, diabetes mellitus, asthma bronchial, skin diseases and so on. You see, there are enough international examples of how care could be taken in the settled area for the benefit of the affected patients, especially in times of lack of doctors. What is missing is only the billing catalogue with social security. We have therefore tabled in the UG 21 the resolution on the ‘Collateral of primary care for social security’. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e59677	Mr Pötterer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e59698	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! It has already been said, but it is absolutely true: Especially in these weeks and months, it shows how important a well-functioning health system is, and we all have this here in Austria. The financial framework period 2020 to 2023 will surely see significant changes due to the impact of the Covid-19 panel, but the medium-term perspective will remain. These include the further development and implementation of the partnership target management system, targeted health promotion and prevention according to health objectives, measures to optimise vaccination rates, pre-drive digitalisation in health care, development and establishment of primary supply units, and the attracting of general medicine. Due to the changed needs, a special focus has been placed on primary supply centres in recent years. Several types of primary supply centres were tested especially in Upper Austria. In succession, the best models are also to be implemented throughout Austria. The teaching practices in the established area are also an important component for securing Austrian health care. The development of our health system is all our task. Funding presents us with special challenges. That is why it will also be important in the future to establish a health system as efficient and effective as possible in our country. Thank you to all those who maintain this system so great even in difficult times. I think we can all be glad that we live in this country. Thank you also to all those Members who, by their decision on Tuesday, have provided our companies with the opportunity to support the contributions by 2021. This is a really great thing for our businesses and their liquidity. – Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e59734	Mrs Nussbaum is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e59756	Mr President. High house! Values Advisors! I am pleased that the health system, which has been financed in solidarity, is once again being referred to as such and that there is a high level of appreciation in this House. In recent years, it has been felt that the priorities have been shifted elsewhere. But now it is about the crisis of the economy that health insurance also goes deep into the minus. As a result of increased unemployment, the total social security in 2020 lacks around 400 million euros in revenue. However, you, Mr Minister, remain with the contribution grants for the self-employed and non-contributory insurance for farmers until 24. Year of life. This alone costs 100 million euros. However, for the seven million insured persons of the ÖGK, the situation is quite different, because the costs incurred by the merger to the ÖGK are still nowhere in the picture. Similarly, the cost of performance harmonisation and the costs incurred by the pandemic as a result of the new challenges are missing. The uncertainty with regard to the contribution grants is already great enough. If you can expect the contributions to flow once, then it's okay, but what if they have to be inappropriate or written down? – Then the ÖGK would actually slumber into a disaster. These contributions must not be made on the back of the workers. We will continue to demand a solidar-funded ÖGK, without any restraint, without any reductions in performance or any increase in contributions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We therefore demand the assurance of the ability to act with a failure of the federal government by the end of 2022. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[16:02]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e59881	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Tanda is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e59905	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It seems that this crisis has particularly put our health system to the test. It turns out, however, that we can rightly be proud of living in this country and of having this reliable health system. In any case, it is looking for the same thing worldwide. I have relatives in America who report very different states. Because today's thanks have come so often in discredit: In my children's room you've learned: Thank you never enough. I therefore thank the Federal Government and, in particular, the Minister of Finance for these outstanding achievements, that this system is reflected in the budget estimate. So it is gratifying that, in addition to many areas, health also has more budget available. On the day of women's health, I would like to address, in particular, the objective of action Objective 2 in the UG Health, a gender equality objective: “Provisional performance of equal access for women and men to health care with a particular focus on gender-specific prevention and prevention programmes. Priority is to improve the health of both sexes taking into account gender differences”. This objective will be achieved with the following three measures: ‘Inclusion of gender aspects in the framework of work on quality systems’, ‘regarding gender-specific aspects under the national cancer programme’, and ‘gener-differentised and, above all, ‘age-differentised data processing’, so as to ‘improved orientation’ accordingly. Our aim is to strengthen the health well-being of the population. Currently, 14.6 percent of women, but only 13.3 percent of men benefit from the offer of health examination. After women have always exceeded the target value in recent years, the aim should now be to increase the participation of men. Aims by 2024 are a general increase in participation and an approximation of the value of both sexes. I would like to stress once again: It is a privilege in our country from the 18th century onwards. (b) to be able to carry out such an examination during a lifetime. The need for money is obvious. This enormous crisis is a positive one, Everyone in this room is hard on him. A positive aspect is certainly the increase in confidence in our health system. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e59951	Mr Silvan is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e59972	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! A 34-year-old mason, who had broken both legs several times in a work accident, was flown with the helicopter to the Lorenz-Böhler-Krankenhaus, rehabilitated in the Rehazentrum Weißer Hof in Klosterneuburg, can work again today and earn his living full and therefore pay again wage tax and social security contributions. A self-employed 43-year-old hairdresser who suffered a skull-brain-trauma on his way home in the event of a serious car accident, was operated in the Meidling accident hospital, was rehabilitated in the White Court in Klosterneuburg and is now fully in the business. At this point, thank you very much to the almost 6,000 employees of the AUVA. Thank you very much! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] On 1 January 2019, contributions to AUVA were reduced from 1.3 percent to 1.2 percent: 110 million euros per year less contributions for AUVA. Furthermore, the self-employed are no longer insured in AUVA, but in the SVS: a further 30 million euros loss of contributions; a total of 140 million euros in loss of contributions. When you talk about the dilemma of AUVA with colleagues from the ÖVP, it always says: No, no, that wasn't us; that was Mrs. Hartinger-Klein. – This may be true formally, but if you look at who benefited from the contribution reductions, you can see that this is not the small master of the carpenters with five employees or the hairdresser with three employees. If you look at the list of companies that have fully benefited from this contribution reduction, you can see that these are almost the same companies as the donors of Sebastian Kurz and ÖVP. They are almost identical, ladies and gentlemen, and then you know where the pressure came from: not from the FPÖ. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] The second Husar piece of the Chancellor was the fusion of the nine regional health telephone to the ÖGK. A patient billion has been promised. All nine territorial healthcare phones together had a plus of 111 million euros. After two years of merger, the ÖGK now has a minus of 175 million euros and predicts a minimum of 1.7 billion euros for 2024. [[The speaker shows a table entitled “9 regional health care telephone +11 million euros; 1 Austrian health insurance fund -1,7 billion euros”]] The lack of contributions from the Covid measures has not yet been calculated. Mr Kirchbaumer told us yesterday very emotionally that we had “no idea” from the SPÖ of the economy. If this is the nature of the economy of the ÖVP, then we can gladly give up on it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Only one group benefits from the merger, and these are party officials of the ÖVP: Director-General, Directors at the Land Offices, Head of Division, Head of Division, Chairman of the State Office – one could continue this list for a long time – all party officials of the ÖVP. Patients are empty given the patient's billions that are not available. It is to be feared that low level of access for all in our health system is at risk, and that is why we are proposing the following resolution: [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz:... got better!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[16:09]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e60138	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Saxinger was the last to speak on this item on the agenda. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e60162	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Corona has shown the strengths, but also the weaknesses of our health system mercilessly, but to calm us all: Our health system is strong in the crisis and has mastered the challenges so far. Fortunately, our resources have not been used at Weitem and we now know that we can also cope with such a crisis through a sufficient number of intensive beds, stationary beds and also through good cooperation. In our hospitals, resources were created for potential infected people and not necessarily shifted to necessary operations and treatments, but the departments, ambulances and ordinations were always open. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, The Federal Government, the Hospitals, the Departments, the Countries, and also in the established extramural area were coordinated. Patients have been studied and treated to relieve hospital ambulances. A big winner of this crisis is the telephone hotline 1450 because it now knows everyone. It would have taken years of efforts and advertising campaigns to bring this phone hotline to people and make it known. The original meaning and purpose of 1450 was perfectly fulfilled, namely to create mandatory information for patients, whether they need medical treatment now, and if so where the ideal conditions for this treatment can be found. This so-called patient control, this triagation that we all need so urgently to implement the existing structures perfectly in the sense and for the benefit of the patients, has worked. I hope that everyone is aware that a highly specialized hospital clinic should not be visited primarily to remove a tick. Ladies and gentlemen, however, there have also been weaknesses: We had too few gloves, masks, protective coats, disinfectants. Corona shows us quite clearly: If we want good health care, we must not only look at efficiency and costs, but also at what the systems are doing, what they are supposed to do and how cooperation is done. But this will cost more money and will also require more staff; but we know that. I understand, under a responsible health policy, the Austrians to preserve their good health system, to draw lessons from this crisis and to force a meaningful development. This is, for example, an upgrading of the cash medical field, a better cooperation with the hospitals, new forms of care, the remedy of the medical shortage, the specialist in general medicine, the digitization, the expansion of prevention and, and, You see, there's no lack of ideas, we have a lot of them. Let's do it together! Of course, the AHA formula also applies for the benefit of our health: A for distance, H for hygiene and the second A for everyday masks in special situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e60207	There are no more words available to me on Division 24, and the discussions on this subject have therefore ended. I thank Minister Anschober for his presence. [[16:14:09]] UG 15: Financial management UG 16: Public charges UG 23: Pensions – officials UG 44: Financial compensation UG 45: Federal assets UG 46: Financial stability UG 51: Cash account UG 58: financing, exchange-rate contracts and Text of the Federal Finance Act and other parts of Appendix I, including Appendices II to IV
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e60287	We now reach the breakdowns 15, 16, 23, 44, 45, 46, 51, 58 and text of the Federal Finance Act and others. Parts of Appendix I, including Annexes II to IV. The debate is taking place together on this matter. I welcome the Minister for Finance. Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e60320	Ladies and gentlemen! Today in the early morning, Mr Angerer – he was, I believe – announced that there will be a request for distrust of the liberals towards Nog-Minister Blümel. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] I've been thinking about whether I can trust him or not, and the first question I've asked myself is: Can he have a constitution? – Constitution simply sets certain rules. This has to be seen as the motorway, and the constitution is the central plan. So, without breaking the constitution, driving snake lines, being spirit drivers, all the only thing you can't do is drive through the street tombs. In the meantime, what we all know is that Minister Blümel was ready and is still ready to just drive through the street tombs. Although he has corrected some of the amendments in this amendment, not everything that is unconstitutional in this budget, in particular the revenue side, has yet to be corrected. That means: Can Minister Blümel's Constitution? - No, he can't! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] The second question I asked myself is: Can Minister Blümel budget? – I mean, he made himself and said his budget is wrong, he threw it into the waste paper. All the figures in the budget are wrong, and if he says to others, they're also wrong. So this is not particularly trusting. But when you realized that the most important position in the budget – the most important! – the aid for businesses, for the unemployed, for short-time workers, namely the Covid-19 measures, this famous 28 billion euro over-authorization, is booked on an account that is not available at all, one has to say: No, Mr Blümel can't budget! [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and Mr Fuchs and Mr Reifenberger.]] The third question I asked myself is: Can you help me? – That’s where you have to say: We know, for example, that the hardness fund for small and medium-sized enterprises, for which the EPUs were announced large in stagings 1 billion euros, 2 billion euros, and now we know that not even 200 million euros have been paid. There is now, of course, the possibility that the farms will be super good and that they will not need this help. Quite honestly, everyone can go out and go to the businesses and ask if they are super well and whether they don't need the help, or whether the help just doesn't arrive. To be honest, whether this is just the bureaucracy or whether this is just the question of having taken the wrong developers, at the end of the day, Minister, it is like this: You can't help either! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In so far as the FPÖ asks this question, namely: Do we have confidence?, then I have to say: No, I don't trust you. You can't and it's better if you make room for someone who can. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e60384	Member's head has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e60406	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I was just wondering when Mr Krainer spoke: Can Krain's road traffic regulations? [[Call the ÖVP:No!]] – If you say you can drive snake lines on the motorway, you can even play ghost drivers on the highway, then I don't know, maybe you meant your speech from before, but on the motorway you won't do that! So, unfortunately, I have to answer my question: You can't do road traffic! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, the road transport system is not our current issue, we are slowly entering the target of the budget debate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Both this budget debate and, above all, the underlying budget are happening at an extraordinary time. We are experiencing an unprecedented health crisis that has hit the population, not only in Austria, but worldwide. We in Austria have managed them perfectly in terms of health policy, we are also dealing with them in their dramatic economic impact and in helping people, but this crisis, of course, also has enormous consequences on the budget. On the revenue side, we will have to expect to have x billion euros less in revenue, but today, with so divergent economic forecasts from the experts, currently ranging from 3.5 to 9 percent, no one can say seriously how high the tax revenue this year can be for the Minister of Finance. Whoever claims to be able to say that certainly does not say the truth. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Maurer.]] At the same time, of course, this crisis also has its impact on the expenditure side, no question! Everything must be done that is somehow reasonable and feasible in order to alleviate this crisis and its effects economically in such a way as to burden people as little as possible. That is to say, there is a need for aid packages; many of them have already been chained. More action will be needed, of course, in the second phase, especially in the direction of economic strengthening, economic recovery, but there can be quite, very difficult to predict at the moment, which will be necessary. Even the one who claims to be able to quantify this already has either a glass ball or a light-seeking skill. Well, that's very, very hard. What we can say is that, of course, all that this federal government has done in the government's programme, which it has done for this year – and the budget now concerns the year 2020 – can be seen in the budget, and that is all in our budget. In this respect, this budget is the programme of this federal government and this coalition that has been put into figures for this year, away from crisis management, and therefore this budget is serious, politically legitimate as this government and coalition. There, ladies and gentlemen, one has now reached out for a technique, and one can discuss it in a small way if one wants to. Is it legitimate to say, for all these uncertainties on the revenue side, but above all on the expenditure side, that one uses a technique to give the Minister of Finance, for these very difficult-to-estimable framework conditions, an authorisation, a surplus authorisation to the budget – of course, against regular monthly report to the High House, with which the Minister of Finance is, of course, accountable over every cent there is no question at all – or is it so, as it is now proposed in the amendment, that these 28 billion euros, which are to be allocated here, are divided into the breakdowns of this budget, but roughly divided, to the extent that one can judge the halt in order to bring in a little more structure? This too, ladies and gentlemen, will certainly not be able to picture reality at the end of the year – but be it. In my opinion, this is a dispute about Emperor Bart: It is always about this EUR 28 billion in additional expenditure we are looking forward to. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, because of this discussion, whether it is being carried out in this way or in the way that has now been corrected, this Finance Minister, who has spent months working day and night on aid programmes, discussing their problems with the affected groups, discussing with intervening people the problems, with banks, with everything that belongs to them, working hard on a budget, working hard to deal with the crisis, working hard – of course, working with us – not deserved. [[Abg. Kickl: Is everything out of stock anyway!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this Minister of Finance has a strong confidence, but certainly not distrust.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e60476	Mr Klubobmann Kickl has now been spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e60497	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, yes, the perception is so different, so the perception can be different. Mr Head of Parliament, I think your statements, which you have just made in connection with the budget, are not the only mistake the People's Party has suffered in recent weeks, and we will ensure that this is not forgotten even among the Austrians. I only compare the number of deaths announced by you with the actual result, and I see the same discrepancy in connection with the corona crisis as we now have a discrepancy with your budget salad. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Some of the sector of the Austrian People's Party, which is now only half maimed, have just spoken, because they have already longed for a word message from me. Apparently, there is a need for you to keep the mirror. I would like to be able to fulfill this wish, even if at the end of a debate, when it comes to the summit, it is usually a little more gracious to do with things. I have to tell you quite honestly, I would have liked to say: All right, all right, but you're not giving me any reason to do so, because as far as this budget is concerned, you can only say that the very opposite is the case: The beginning was muttered, the middle was muttered and the end is only quite murky. – What you have provided here, Mr Finanzminister, is a budgetary policy revelation. To say it in the light of Sebastian Kant, ah, Immanuel Kant – I am already so far; it has already arrived in this country! – so to say it in response to Immanuel Kant: [[General cheerfulness and acknowledgment of the Agg. Belakovich]] The budgetary thing in itself has been hidden from your knowledge horizon. Ladies and gentlemen, who has believed so far and assumed that the cave bad – the cave bad! – Performance or non-performance – you can choose now – the ex-State Secretary Lunacek – you know that is the overthrown cultural policy trabant of Mr. Vice-Chancellor – has been the past sad peak of this federal government, which lies next door. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] You are also in addition, if you so far have the biggest miscarriage of the Federal Government – let us call it so – a legal amok run by the Minister of Health in the form of his regulation – you are also there! And you lie next to it a third time, if you assume that this merit interior minister Nehammer, in his Rasterfachung beyond the rule of law, comes after so-called life hazards with which he has flexed himself into the distance. No, ladies and gentlemen, since this budget debate and since this whole process of the creation of the budget, we know very well: The Cup for the most responsible procedure in connection with the previous government performance is clear to you, Minister of Finance! You've worked hard on this with your budgetary belly spot. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We would have needed an extraterrestrial achievement of a finance minister, and we would have gotten a underground one. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] Her stack of waste paper called budget is an increase in the Austrian Parliament. Getting Now You probably think on the part of the government groups: It doesn't matter, the opposition didn't deserve it at all!, but you should think about it, because the one who is mocked in truth is you! These are the representatives of the government groups, because it is stronger for a federal government to express its disdain for its own Members than to demand them to defend this work and to end up refusing to do so in the National Council. This is the largest form of disdain that your own members of the government can express to you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What does this Federal Government actually believe is this Parliament?- Oh, my God! This is not an annoying side-by-side exhibition, whose main task would be to wink through and celebrate these – we call it that way – new post-democratic normality. That's not it. This Parliament, which is the cardiovascular system of the usual, proven normality, parliamentary-democratic normality, and this cardiovascular system will not go to the knees just because you believe that in a lightly prepared way, you will first get across in collective laws and now with this Murks budget. We will still discipline you, not with a blow, but step by step, I can promise you! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Your fakebudget, your strange calculation work, which had already exceeded its expiry date before it even appeared, is of course also a provocative disregard for all legal requirements. This applies to the simple legal regulations, the word "Federal Budget Act" – which is often quoted as "Federal Constitution" – but this applies in particular to the Austrian Federal Constitution. Steps once and for all It is the principle of budgetary clarity, budgetary truth and budgetary transparency. I must say that I am very, very grateful to the SPÖ for organizing an appropriate opinion, which clearly shows – which is watertight – that your driving here is constitutionally not covered by anything, ladies and gentlemen. This is not the way to deal with this House, Minister of Finance. [[It was in favour of FPÖ and SPÖ, as well as Neos representatives.]] A statement of bankruptcy and a declaration of bankruptcy; But their budgetary madness is one thing, and it is an incredible increase in the Austrian population. I mean, the idea must also be addressed first, given the corona crisis, which, because of your daily perceived round-mortem, is becoming more and more the largest economic and labour market crisis in the Second Republic, with a very massive and Consequences on the income and expenditure structure of the Republic, where there is a chain reaction of the negative that will fuel you more day by day, are presented in a numerical form in view of this situation, where the massive economic and budgetary impact is at best strangled, but not at the centre of the overall considerations. This is really a master achievement of the very special kind, an affront of the special class, I would like to say. People want to know how big the hole is that you tear up more with your corona insanity every day. People want to know who is being asked to check out to what extent to stop this hole. They want to know who in the end will have this damage which you multiply every day, who will then have to do this damage. People want to know how you deal with the winners of the crisis that exists in the various areas. And above all, you want to know how you want to start the labour market again and how you want to achieve appropriate economic impulses to get out of this valley. Answers have been desperately sought! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, clarity, truth and transparency, that is what is required by the population and by the legislation. What you deliver is a three-pack of deception, untruth and intransparency. In the normal case, such a false delivery is a reason to send the whole package back, but you are not ready for that. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I wonder, What is it? Is it inability? - Maybe. But is it perhaps something else, an already almost incredible hybrid of power, an incredible superiority that speaks of your actions, a kind of sense of political inviolability which you have somehow possessed in recent weeks and months? – I think it’s a combination of both, and it’s a common-risk combination, I want to say. [[Call the Greens.]] In any event, in connection with this budget, the principle of black and green political elites in this country applies in the area of Corona, and this principle reads as follows: What we ask of you, dear Austrians, you can't demand from us! – This is the principle that the black and green elites are also doing in the matter of budget and in many other areas concerning Corona. They require the entrepreneurs to have accurate, reliable, forward-looking planning and are not willing to put this standard on their own. Therefore, the budget laws do not apply to the master of the budget, and they apply to everyone else. We know that. We know this from other events. We know this from the turquoise politic wall ride in the Kleinwalsertal, from the bathroom in the crowd of the Federal Chancellor, where he has mixed himself like a kind of touch-reliance among the masses and put everything out of power. [[Rejoicing and condolences with the FPÖ as well as with representatives of SPÖ and NEOS.]] He has put out everything he himself has demanded for everyone else. The Redeemer from the coronamass death is therefore the one for which these corona solutions themselves do not apply. There is a third case of black-green polishes. This time it is the Greens, in whom we experience the same principle. In this case, I am speaking now of the post-stopperous seat blockade of the head of state at the Nobel Italian, ladies and gentlemen. [[Cheerfulness with FPÖ, SPÖ and NEOS.]] Yes, even for the self-proclaimed moral authority in that country, there are no loopholes! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] For the highest and highest political authority, when it comes to the question of the legality of the situation The laws – including the raised index finger – do not apply these laws! Do you see what is meant and expressed? – A sad picture that these black and green polishes give, according to the motto: Everyone's the same, they're the same! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For the latter example, I only note that even because of other small things, people who have not been blamed because they have not violated any legal regulations, have been disturbed by the public as so-called "Coronadeppen" and then placed on the public priest. That must also be said. To this day, there has been no word of excuse. And now I am with you, Minister of Finance. You are a student philosopher, and that is also the reason why I also tell you one in all clarity: If you are the legendary, probably the most famous sentence of the Socrates, which reads: “I know I don’t know anything”, make the principle of your budgetary policy, then you’re wrong. [[Rejoicing with members of FPÖ and NEOS]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I believe that this is something that should not apply in these areas. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Cuckoo.]] In any case, your procedure does not show that in challenging times one cannot achieve a reasonable budget, it only shows that you can't do it. This is a fine, but quite, very essential difference. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] We can now make a small syllogism: Their figures are wrong, their excuses are wrong, so, Minister of Finance, what do we conclude? - You're wrong at this point. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the FPÖ and congratulation with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is somehow a logical realization resulting from these two premises. You have delivered the evidence yourself in the last few weeks. There, too, this tripartite work that you have enchanted out of the hat overnight does not help in the least, and there also your announcement does not help that Then you want to submit a case crash in the autumn. Dear Austrians, this is not an expression of beauty, if one then re-adjusts in autumn, but it is an expression of electoral fraud, simply because autumn is so Terminized that it has been Terminized after substantial elections for the Austrian People's Party – then it has been elected to Styria, then it has been elected in Vorarlberg and then has been elected where you will be top candidates yourself, namely in Vienna, and then the Cassascend will come and then the horrors will come. It is also a move to this new normality that party political considerations are first and that state-political responsibility is placed in your back. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] For all these reasons, I have nothing but to say in summary: Yes, I can't trust you anymore, we can't trust you from the Liberal Group anymore. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höfinger]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I would therefore like to make the following request: Request for Distrust by Mr Herbert Kickl, colleagues on “Faith of Trust to the Federal Minister for Finance” The National Council wants to decide: ‘The Federal Minister for Finance shall be, in accordance with Art. 74 Paragraph 1 of the B-VG, by express resolution of the National Council, fails to give rise to confidence.’ I see this as my citizenship duty and my opposition duty, ladies and gentlemen. One thing, because the partygoers of the ÖVP are so happy to stretch the image of the reconstruction of the destroyed Austria from the ruins of the Second World War, in order to glorify their round-up named Comeback for Austria in some way: I personally consider this to be an incredibly presumptuous increase in excess, but let us take a second on this game of thought. I would like to say one thing to you: The finance ministers of this period of construction would rather have torn off the tongue or placed their office responsibly in more competent hands instead of producing themselves here and proclaiming themselves in the throes of the state: Dear folks, I am not able to deliver a reasonable budget, but precisely that is why I ask for your consent and your trust! It's not absurd anymore. [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of SPÖ and NEOS.]] The real crisis finance ministers – they were really the ones at the time – turn around in the grave in what is currently being listed. Minister of Finance Blümel, I have to tell you one thing: The way in which you approach things – and this also applies to the People's Party, which, as it were, also has a debt to choose – is suitable for the role of a cashier in an ÖVP-near club called Pro Patria – that has been you for a time. [[Rejoicing with representatives of SPÖ]] That is enough, but not enough for the Office of the Minister of Finance. [[Prolonged condolences with the FPÖ and congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ and the Agg. Loacker.]] [[16:42]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e60885	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. Mr Schwarz is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e60910	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Minister! I find it very entertaining that you have been put on a joke at a time when we have been in one of the biggest crises for decades – in a health policy and a economic crisis. I think it's totally inappropriate for you to shave around there. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The only fit to your speech - - – Thank you. [[Abg. Martin Graf: Not so much in the face!]] I do not think that you will be particularly advised to accept health recommendations. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with Greens and ÖVP.]] To your speech, Mr Kickl: The only fit to your speech was the Socrates quote, but you do not know the background of the quote. They say that Socrates says he knows he doesn't know anything – in the sense of: He doesn't know anything. The background of the quote is quite different. Socrates says he knows if he doesn't know anything. He is therefore aware of this when uncertainty and uncertainty are present. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the FPÖ.]] That's why this budgetary process is going on: that you don't pretend to know if you don't know. [[Abg. Kickl: It's worse!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] We have between 3.5% and 9% of GDP, and we do not know where we will lie. [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] That's exactly the point. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] To my previous speaker, but also to colleagues Krainer – I don't see him right now –: [[Call the SPÖ: He's here!]] Since the first day of the Committee, you say that the Minister of Finance has been stopped to table and budget these estimates in the budget. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] At the meetings in the Committee on Budgets, you advised us constantly to make an amendment – that was your recommendation. Then get another opinion to support this view, and then the amendment proposal comes – a little late, admitted, but it comes – and then you get up again. [[Abg. Loacker: But what kind of person?- Oh, my God!]] Something has to be right with you! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Loacker: The request is seen to have written it at 11 a.m. on the night!]] At a time when the Minister of Finance is working day and night to provide economic assistance and to see that the economy is stabilising and that this crisis can somehow be overcome, Mr Kickl has no better idea than to send a withdrawal request to the Minister to make a request for distrust. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] This is exactly the last thing we need in this situation, if, I believe, it is precisely the work force and the action of the Minister that are required to get out of this crisis. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] As a result, the motion of censure from my point of view is unappropriate. [[Abg. Easy: The last thing we need is a bad finance minister!]] It is true that the budget has great uncertainties, especially on the revenue side. To get to the subject: It is precisely the UGs that are under negotiation that show how much uncertainty there is in this area. [[call to the FPÖ.]] With regard to public taxes, UG 16, we have already seen that it is likely that between 3.5 and 9 percent of GDP will be expected to be lost and, accordingly, revenue is dramatically lower than we originally expected. How low they will be, however, can't be said – the range of variation is in the range of billions. It's unscrupulous to deliver concrete figures. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: But you have to!]] It is similar in the UG 44 in which we cannot estimate the incomes that the municipalities and countries are losing. There is also a range of fluctuations in the range of billions. At the same time, it becomes visible in this area, as the government is trying to provide security where this crisis is causing a high degree of uncertainty – with the EUR 20 billion for crisis management in the Covid-19 crisis management fund. These EUR 20 billion, together with the EUR 8 billion, signal that the government is prepared to do what is necessary at this stage to dispel the disaster and ensure stable economic conditions. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] This money is to be used, for example, for the municipal package, which is almost negotiated by which 1 billion euros are made available for investment, including 300 million euros for public transport, which is particularly active in employment. These are the things that, for example, the Finance Ministers, but also the other members of the Federal Government, do and drive them around. Also, of course, there are the many other instruments, such as the hardness fund and, now fresh, the fund for the freelance artists, through which the unbureaucratic 1 000 euros per month are available. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I do not know how you see this, but I believe that these are the central concerns of the Austrian population at this stage. These are also the central concerns of the Federal Government, and I think we should let them work now and not deal with such jokes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e61152	Mrs Doppelbauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e61173	Mr President. High house! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, before I go into this budget chaos which the Minister of Finance has raised, I would like to make a brief request in the interests of the Austrian economy, namely the Austrian credit insurers. They can expect and have begun to cut or even delete credit limits in the face of the crisis. This, of course, is very, very hard for entrepreneurs, because they need these credit insurances right now. That is why I put forward the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] In the interests of our entrepreneurs, I would like your consent. But now I come to the budget and to this absolute chaos that you left us with. Mr Finanzminister, as Minister of Finance, you have to present a proper budget to this House. Apparently your stratogens have told you or at least some general genius from your team said: I got it, we're saving ourselves this year, we don't need to do that, it doesn't pay off, it's going through, we're giving them an old paper! – I quote you, because you said that with the old paper. For weeks – for weeks! – let us tell you budget speakers of the opposition parties: I can't do that! The budgetary authority lies in Parliament and this is a refusal to work. Then, as it became clear that this refusal of work, this waste paper you have presented, is also not constitutionally in order that it is unconstitutional, you will obviously still get the panic and send us yesterday at 23 o'clock on the evening of this paper, namely an amendment that can't do anything again in which nothing is in it. Very seriously, Minister of Finance: What about you? [[Rejoicing and condolences with the NEOS, as well as with representatives of SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have to explain this a little, because if you don't work here so to speak, then you probably don't understand why we judge it this way. In principle, however, a few principles apply if you make a budget: It should be clear, it should be transparent and it should be true. On clarity: Since last night, the experts have been sitting and considering how to interpret everything in it. For example, there are stories about the reserves. What happens to deposits if funds are not spent? What happens to the money? Can you keep this in your department in the Ministry of Finance and do so next year with the budget, or not? - Well, obviously, something else. Transparency: In this tripartite turquoise-green paper from last night, which you sent us, it says inside that these famous 28 billion euros are assigned to individual headings – headings, that is, not somehow a ministry, or perhaps even a sub-division, or perhaps even a detailed budget, so that we really know what is happening, no, it is assigned to headings. These are huge blank checks that will be issued here. It's an eye wiper. The Minister of Finance can really continue to do what he wants with this budget. It is not transparent and it is enslaved to Parliament. Mr Wöginger is, I believe, not there right now. He immediately jumped up yesterday and made a real correction. I would like to say to him again: This does not change the reporting obligations of the Minister of Finance, which is simply the case. Once again, the budgetary reality: What is still missing is this revenue situation. There is nothing to say about the under-incomes that will come, and about which we also know. Mr. Finance Minister, you stand here and say that you can't estimate this now and it's very difficult; minus 3%, minus 9 percent, that's a big bandwidth. - Yeah, that's a big bandwidth. However, I would also like to refer briefly to Mr Schwarz. I mean, you were business consultants. You certainly didn't tell your entrepreneurs: If between minus 3 or minus 9 percent is, yeah, then doesn't expect anything!, does it? Seriously, did you recommend this to your entrepreneurs? [[Rejoicing and condolences with the NEOS, as well as with representatives of SPÖ and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] Mr Finanzminister, if you had worked in the economy once, you also knew that this is quite customary, that you do something like that and that you can calculate it, because then you do scenarios. What do you do when you make a scenario? – Quite clearly, you stand down and you say you're expecting it. If you were a careful merchant, then – and I would recommend that in this situation – you would make a conservative scenario. If you were a bad merchant, you would say: Let's make a very positive one. But the worst thing you can do is do nothing at all. I do not understand you, Minister of Finance, that you are refusing to calculate this simply. I can't do that. What remains is that we have been since 8. In May, a budget with wrong figures will be discussed. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, but also of the ÖVP! You agree here. You're just going with that. They're making themselves members of the Minister of Finance here. [[It was in favour of NEOS and SPÖ and FPÖ representatives.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] What I really want to say, ladies and gentlemen, is this: The Ministry of Finance is not a preparation camp for the Vienna election campaign! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Just because you control messages and hold daily press conferences doesn't mean you can do the craft. You seem to lack the expertise. You just have to say that. We are in an exceptional situation right now, and yes, it's incredibly difficult, it's really difficult. But what you and your team are doing is this craft. You don't get anything on the floor. You don't get a budget on the ground, and you can't pay the help either. That's not how it's done! [[It was in favour of NEOS and SPÖ and FPÖ representatives.]] Unfortunately, the people have to bathe it out, and I stay here in my assessment: I'm sure you have your strengths, but you can't have finance ministers! [[It was in favour of NEOS and SPÖ and FPÖ representatives.]] [[16:54]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e61366	Please read the motion in the text, Madam President. - Okay. [[Abg. Double builder: I already, at the beginning!]] The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and under negotiation. The honourable Member is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e61397	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We are at the end of a three-day budget debate. This is, of course, a good time to get a little bit of a summary. I have already said on the first day – and the opposition repeats their arguments like this – that the arguments of the opposition are substantial. [[Abg. Listen: Ah!]] And if I listen to the debate, I am increasingly convinced that these arguments are not substantial. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intervoke by Mr Loacker and Mr Meinl-Risinger.]] I can also justify this with factual arguments. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] First of all, a very short look into the past: A budget provisional is still valid. We had a very successful budget in January, February and also in March with significant surpluses. We had a general surplus in 2018 and a general government surplus in 2019 in all local authorities – municipalities, countries and states – and social security funds. Why is that so important? – This gives us the basis that we can now invest in spite of this crisis, and that is something we must expressly stress: Austria is very well placed in financial policy, and we can certainly be proud of that! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Next step: As 2019 elections, there was no budget. In mid-March, the budget before the Corona crisis – and it must be stressed – was then sent to the National Council. Very important, this is always the case in the debate: This new budget contains a lot of important measures. As there has been very little criticism of these measures, there should obviously be very good measures – in justice, in safety, in mobility, in climate protection. This is a very positive record. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Well then came Corona, and of course Corona has changed the world, of course also budgetary, on the revenue side as well as on the expenditure side. But I still find it really impressive at what speed the programmes have been set up by the Ministry of Finance. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Kickl.]] Now you can list a long, long list. I would also like to stress: A really great thank you is also due to the employees in the Ministry of Finance, in the cabinets, in the sections. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The criticism always comes: Well, that's all too bureaucratic, that's all too slow!, but get to the heart: If money were to be paid out and anything would not fit, what would be the first reaction of the opposition? – Sharp criticism of it: Where are the guidelines? Where are the basics? – There is a means to go, on the one hand to create clear foundations, but on the other hand, of course, to act as unbureaucratically as possible. There is an excellent work being done, and it is important for me to stress this once again. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] At the end of a budget debate, it is also important for me to try to take a small look at the future. We already said it: This is very difficult to predict on the revenue side, to predict expenditure very difficult. [[Abg. Listen:... nothing predicted!]] Every economic researcher, every expert emphasizes this over and over again, I could now list x quotes. But what does the look into the future show? – The phase of consolidation will have to come, because quite honestly, as it looks at the end of the day, we will then know at the end of the year. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Lausch and Mr Leichtfried.]] But we will have to finance a lot of new debts. Actually, the SPÖ should agree, because that's exactly what you always want: Make debt. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Listen, you've taken all the measures!]] Today we are making them because we have to invest out of the crisis. There are almost three ways to consolidate. There would be a new tax, but right away from the SPÖ I hear it all the time: No, this tax, this and this tax are absolutely the wrong signal for the economic location. . We could cut expenditure, no question at all. We would not do that either, because we need an expansionary budget policy at the moment. The right way is – and this has already been outlined by the Minister of Finance – to invest out of the crisis, to consolidate the budget with economic growth. That's the only right way. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: That's not exactly what is in the budget!]] Finally, a small technical Bonmot towards Colleague Krainer, who repeatedly emphasizes: Amendment, big disaster, expenditure is not presented in the detailed budget! – He has already emphasized this in the other speeches. Thank God we have no other problems. Mr Krainer, I would really ask you to read the reports of the Ministry of Finance to Parliament. I quote from the report overuse of funds and pre-taxes in the 1. Quarter 2020: These expenditures were well documented and sent to Parliament. That means, of course, this account is also there in execution; there is very clean work. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In this sense, I would really mean: We need a certain optimism in our Republic. Granted, it is a really difficult situation – health policy, even fiscal policy – but it needs optimism. We will also deal with this crisis with a healthy optimism! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e61552	The Federal Minister for Finance is hereby reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e61573	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a few basic comments, so as to be able to respond to the criticism: The Corona crisis presents us all worldwide with great challenges – this is of course also the case in Austria. Due to the health challenges, it was important that the Federal Government acted quickly, early and decisively. This also enables us now to be able to lock up faster and to complain less of the dead than is unfortunately the case in other countries of God. Of course, the Corona crisis has not only health effects, but also economic – especially for a country like Austria, which is very export-oriented. If two of the three main export partners, namely Italy and the United States, are massively affected by the corona virus, then of course this also means a lot to the Austrian economy. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] This year, the gross domestic product – depending on which economic researchers can be believed – will shrink between 3 and 9 percent. So we live in times of highest economic volatility. This V-shaped collapse of the economy, which many in the beginning still conspired, – that is, a sharp downfall and then a rapid recovery – will not happen in this form. The Federal Government has therefore decided and presented many measures to help businesses get through the crisis better and to save as many jobs as possible in this situation. I can give you a few numbers. [[Abg. Greiner: Right?- Oh, my God!]] To date, 260 000 applications have been submitted for tax subsidies. These have all been approved – this represents a volume of 6 billion euros, which remains in addition to liquidity in the companies. By the way, 75 per cent of the applications or the volume of enterprises that have less than EUR 700 000 per year, i.e. those that have made use of them, are mainly smaller ones. As regards guarantees and loans, 20 000 applications have been received and approved. A total of 4 billion euros have been taken over by the Republic. For example, if you produce a credit product – which guarantees the Republic 100 percent – then you note: We are one of only four countries in the whole European Union making this offer, and we are extremely good in this area compared to Germany. There are about 8 000 applications in Germany and about 7 000 in Austria, almost all of which have already been approved. For short work: More than 110 000 applications for short work have been approved, which accounts for more than EUR 10 billion, and over 40 000 of these applications have already been met. – You know, the billing has been possible since the beginning of May. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] I could still deliver you many of these numbers. If you believe the European Commission and OECD forecasts, that would mean that despite this difficult situation, Austria is better hit by the crisis than other countries. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] This is a light situation for no one. I should like to express my thanks to the Austrians, not only for the cohesion of the Austrians in this difficult situation, but also for all the staff in the ministries, in the other bodies and beyond, also here in Parliament, who have done great things in recent weeks and months – a warm thanks for this from my side! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The opposition also plays a very important role in this crisis. I would like to express my deep respect for opposition work in itself, but in recent days it has not always been easy to distinguish material criticism from principle rejection. [[Call:To]] [[Abg. Meil-Risinger: You should have respect for Parliament in particular!]] [[Abg. Greiner: Right to all cases!]] Let me draw an analogy to Mr. Klubobmann Kickl and Immanuel Kant: A few people sometimes had the impression that criticism has been self-interest, not a means for the purpose. If you want to understand criticism in the cantic sense, I am willing to accept it, because when Kant wrote his “criticism of pure reason”, he did not mean a rejection of pure reason, but an investigation of pure reason. In this sense, I would like to criticize myself to see exactly where there are substantial challenges that need to be changed, Mr Klubobmann. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: But that's a bit late!]] [[Abg. Vogl:... does not mean to understand!]] [[Abg. Kickl:... a little late!]] In the sense of this researching criticism, we have dealt intensively with the accusations raised by the opposition – not only with the experts in the Ministry of Finance, but also beyond. I can read to you a few quotes from external experts about the current situation and budget. The head of the Economic Research Institute, Christoph Badelt, said on 26.5. in the “Kurier” – I quote –: “Spending a budget with concrete figures would almost be a self-deception. A cash register for the budget makes sense only in the autumn.” – And on: ‘A part of the budget is regular in terms of environmental measures. But corona cannot be estimated, nor can the cost of short work be estimated.” – Christoph Badelt. [[Abg. Kickl: Is this one locked up right now?- Oh, my God!]] [[Further call at the FPÖ: Here I am excited!]] Another expert, ex-budget chief Gerhard Steger, who is still known to many of you, meant: The cascasm “must be here when it is made serious” and not if “an optimistic image” is to be mediated. A casserole must come “if it’s realistic and not if it’s beautiful. ” I like the budget expert Mag. Manfred Claus Lödl quote: The chosen solution takes account of the principles of budgetary transparency and efficiency in a reasonable way. There is no breach of constitutional and other budgetary rules. All legislative proposals submitted are in accordance with the budgetary constitutional directives. - Quote. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Another quote: There is another opinion by Professors Heinrich and Poier, who also see that the method chosen is constitutionally permissible. [[Abg. Lightenness: Mr Finanzminister, what is this opinion?! I don't think there's any opinion! There are at most opinions! Or am I deceiving?- Oh, my God!]] [[Further call to the SPÖ.]] However, there is one point where not all experts agree on the question of how detailed the excess of EUR 28 billion, which has already been included in the budget proposal, is indicated. – In the sense of researching criticism, I should like to take up this subject matter. We are going to take up this subject and we are therefore complementing the headings concerned and the actual disbursements that are acceptable from today's point of view, ladies and gentlemen. We have already requested another opinion on this criticism. University professors Janko and Mayrhofer: These amendments would address the concerns raised against the compatibility of the BFG 2020 with the budgetary constitutional principles, in particular the principles of budgetary truthfulness and budgetary clarity and transparency. - Quote. [[Abg. Kickl: But this is contrary to the first quoted!]] So I think we are on the right path to respond to this criticism. If, now, calls come and it is not enough if you respond to the criticism, then this may also say a little about the criticalness of the critics. [[Abg. Kickl: It is!]] In this sense, I think we have done everything we can to meet you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I should like to conclude by thanking myself for the good cooperation in difficult times, not only but above all for the representatives of the government groups, but also for many members of the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e61797	As the next speaker, I would like to speak to Mrs Karin Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e61818	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister, we do not expect you to meet us with a fee; we expect you to take us seriously, but obviously you are busy finding at all an expert who draws up an opinion in your sense. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear colleague Hanger! I don't see him right now. [[Call the ÖVP: There he sits!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sobotka.]] - Ah, back there he's sitting! Your colleague, do you know what's substanceless? – This is the most important description of the budget that we have received from the Federal Minister, that is the right name for the Murks we had to look at! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hanger: Then you have to read it!]] On the matter: They all know that many experts have expressed themselves more strongly in the last few days, stressing the importance of investing ourselves out of the crisis now. Crisis management with austerity policy, with savings policy will not work. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] [[Abg. Jewellery: It doesn't look like that anyway!]] Where to invest? – Investing is mainly in social services – you can learn, Mr. Collegue von der ÖVP –, in health, in care, in education. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Meinl-Reisinger]] We need exactly the strengths of these services, which, by the way, work perfectly, and this is also an indicator for the social state – these things are our social state. [[Abg. Weidinger nodds concurrence]] Where are all these services provided? – They are provided in the communities, and we all know – well, we already have concerns, unlike you, possibly – that the municipalities have to expect massive revenue losses – there is no tax revenue, the incomes are falling dramatically, and the municipal services are at risk. [[Cheerfulness and call of the Abg. Hanger]] However, they need to be maintained – schools, childcare facilities for children, older people, waste water treatment et cetera, et cetera – and that is why the communities need our support. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now we have received a proposal from you: 1 billion euros. Yeah, how are they supposed to flow? – In the form of 50 % co-financing by the federal government. How does that look? Who benefits from it? – This is the main benefit of all the financial communities, the cities, but how is it with the weaker communities? - Well, they don't look so good. They get almost nothing and are generally difficult because they have little own resources. Especially the weak communities need our help, and we also have a concrete proposal to do so. This is: 250 euros per inhabitants in each municipality. That's calculable, that's transparent, transparent – there's a list, so every community can see how much it will get. What is the decisive advantage of this variant? – This money flows immediately and directly from the federal government to the municipalities. They'll get the help now and not sometime! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In fact, the Minister of Finance should have learned from the mistake that we all now feel. Now we see in the companies, as it looks, when support funds are slowly, possibly not at all, scarcely over 100 bureaucratic obstacles flow. That should be a lesson for you. I now make the following request to our proposal: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Finanzminister, to conclude an urgent request to you: Get away from this neoliberal policy of EIA, which you have already fought against Greece in Europe, and stop damaging our communities with such a policy! Thank you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haubner: A bad argument!]] [[17:14]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e62055	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Gödl spoke in favour of an actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to you. You are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e62082	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Karin Greiner claimed that only the wealthy, rich communities would benefit from the community package. [[Abg. Lightenness: She rightly claimed that too!]] – That is absolutely incorrect. In fact, it is true that all communities benefit to the same extent, and your community, the municipality of Gratwein-Straßengel, will receive EUR 1 377 796.90 from this parish package. - That's right.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e62126	Mrs Eva Blimlinger is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e62147	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Federal Minister! I would like to add an interim correction to the comments made by my previous speaker: This proposal with the 250 euros per person is a bit - - - how should I say? We know which municipality is the largest municipality in Austria: This is the municipality of Vienna. And this is – oh miracle – in front of an election campaign, and it does, of course, make itself great when you calculate it per person. You just said it was about the small communities. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] - No, you're the biggest municipality, and it's supposed to get the funding. So anything can't be right there. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP as well as Bravoruf at the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Another word to Mr Kickl, who is excited about this: Yes, it was a mistake to sit in the Annagasse at night and chat with your own wife – no question – but you know, I like to live in a country and in a city where the Federal President can sit there with his wife by half one in the night without security and no rode police who is burdening the budget through Annagasse. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] That's it! Yeah, that's it! These are budget expenditures that are unnecessary! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl:...! Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] He will pay his punishment if there is one, no question, but such a setting really is better for me than for horse-loaded budgets. [[Abg. Kickl: You don't believe that yourself! Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Abg. Kickl: You don't believe that yourself!]] I now come to a point, namely the developments in civil servants' pensions: You know, officials don't get a pension at all, but a so-called rest pleasure, and this UG 23 is untouched by Corona. There is a slight increase, however, which is only due to inflation, and there is an increase in the care allowance because the care money is paid. [[Abg. Loacker: Easy increase?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Loacker: 700 million euros: slight increase?- Oh, my God!]] Mr Loacker, you can prepare for this: This will rise massively when my generation retires. It takes a little while – five, six years. Who knows if you or I are still in Parliament, but then there is a cost explosion for those who are retired and get a rest? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e62286	Next speaker: Mr Erwin Anger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e62310	Madam President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Minister! Maybe first a few words about the UG 44: Financial compensation and the community investment package that you have or have brought up by the government parties. It's basically positive to see – it was a week-long demand from our side – it only happens to me, you sometimes don't think anything to end. Now I don't know if this is due to the oxygen withdrawal through the masks, because it is definitely given – they don't provide protection, but there's no oxygen – and that's why you might want to take it down and go deeper into the things, because they probably don't work as they mean. So: It is well meant, but it is still a bit changed, and we can still talk about it in committee. I would have a few suggestions: For example, they have almost failed to take account of the economic aspect. Throughout the projects, the following projects are listed: Schools, renovated kindergartens, renovated church. This does not create and secure a job. It is a bit of an economic aspect, too. One should perhaps also support projects in tourism – this is through the whole regulations by Mr Anschober, so that something can be done there. So you should open this up a little bit for the communities and make sure that they get to the money easier, otherwise the same happens as with the hardening fund. The second thing to consider is the following: There is a 15a agreement from 2016 – this is also an indication from me, and perhaps the municipal mandate, like you, Mr Wöginger, are also one yourself, and the mayors – which sets the liability limit for communities. At the time, this was reduced from 120 percent of revenue to 75 percent. Of course, the sheer will now be even more apart in the crisis, because the income of the communities will decline dramatically and they will not be able to absorb interim funding that will be necessary for projects. We therefore propose that this limit should be re-established and, at least for the period up to 2022, increased to 120 percent: [[Quoted print version removed]] Otherwise, certain projects or many projects will not be implemented because the communities simply cannot finance them. A few more general words on the budget which you, Minister of Finance, have presented to us and which we have been allowed to deal with here in Parliament for three weeks. They come today with a unilateral amendment. This amendment represents the change in the number of EUR 102 billion in expenditure. It has been changed by 20 billion euros. In the revenue sector, the same as in the March budget, although you yourself have x-fold said that the economy will break by 3 to 9 percent, the GDP will break by 3 to 9 percent. This, of course, has a massive impact on revenue. Now, if you were careful about how an entrepreneur would do this, you would start 9 percent. One would say: Okay, we understand; if it gets better, we're all happy! However, they write the same number and change four groups in the expenditure area. Mr Hanger has accused us today of making substantial contributions to the debate. Mrs. Karin Greiner said: If something is substanceless, then it's this paper! – That’s really not substantial. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As far as confidence in you is concerned, Mr Minister, I have to say this today in the Something said early on – I can well remember a statement from an ÖVP member who is now in the public prosecutor's office. He said to our minister at the time: “Trust is exhausted by the use of it.” – Trust in you is exhausted, Minister! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[17:22]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e62444	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Angela Baumgartner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e62472	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Values Advisors! Ladies and gentlemen! The opposition believes that it has found a point of attack with the budget. [[Abg. Lightenness: What does it mean to believe?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Kickl: This is a wide side!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] All other government measures cannot criticize them. The Austrians are happy to have a government that acts quickly, properly and efficiently, in times of crisis and beyond. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] However we would have set up the budget process, the opposition, especially the SPÖ, would have expressed artificial indignation. The SPÖ seems to fear losses in Vienna. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Even Gerhard Steger – our Minister of Finance has mentioned Gerhard Steger – who is not suspected of being close to our group, makes it clear – Mr Klubobmann Kickl – that: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Reisinger]] If it is not possible to estimate what amounts it will be dealing with as a result of the crisis, it is possible to have an overrun and also to cover the budget. - Quote. [[Abg. Bernhard: Nicely read!]] Thank you! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Then don't miss it at all!]] The government presented yesterday the easings in the cultural field. Culture wasn't that, Mr. Klubobmann Kickl and Mr. Col. Krainer, but you played good theater. We cannot afford this, we bear responsibility for Austria and decide on the budget to ensure the ability to act. [[Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff: This is the hundred thousandth press conference!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e62591	Next speaker: Ms. Beate Meinl-Reisinger, president of the club. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e62613	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Love everyone, wherever you look! First of all, I would like to focus very briefly on what Mrs Blimlinger said about civil servants' pensions. It's a little bit remarkable. We know that, of course, the increase in official pensions was decided much earlier, even in the time of the official government – as appropriate the name – or expert government. This is about 700 million euros. I find that remarkable as a slight increase. This is not exactly what creates confidence in consolidated budgets under green government participation in the future, I must say quite clearly. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] This is, of course, a point that could be addressed, at a time when we see that there will be an increasingly large gap: between those who stand in front of the sharps of their existence – some of which in recent decades have been the beneficiaries of this society, who have maintained this country with hundreds of euros of tax money and social security contributions, and then have been able to hire around 400 euros, around 36 euros, and are now able to pay a bonus and another 500 euros from the hardening fund – and the protected area on the other hand. It is good that there is that, but we will naturally have to talk about this discrepancy and this gap. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] My previous speaker said that the whole criticism of the opposition was to be wiped out of the table, because the Austrians were so proud and grateful. Thankfulness comes at all very often: Everyone should be very grateful to this government for managing this crisis so well. I have to say – and all of us have done this with one shoulder closure, because we can actually beat everyone, especially the Austrians, to the shoulder – it has worked in the field of health. Our health system has not reached its capacity limit, we actually have good figures, even in international comparison. It now looks everywhere, so almost everywhere, however, one goes on to say that we were better and faster everywhere. [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: Die in South America...!]] That's supposed to be so, that's all right, that's good. But where it has not succeeded at all, it is in the field of economic aid. There was no balance in crisis management between the so-called very singular view of the health sector and all other areas. If you say otherwise, I cannot understand that. At the beginning of this crisis, we said: Now it is about health and immediately after that it is about everything else – about existence, about jobs, about jobs, about growth, about prosperity, about education, about mental health! In this area, I am very sorry, the Austrians and in particular the entrepreneurs do not give you a good witness. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. It's funny.]] You say you learn and always make a little better. Yesterday you presented a correction of the correction – a little more complicated it always becomes –: Yesterday it was said that there are at least 1 000 euros, but it is now a bonus of 500 euros. It's not gonna be easier. The point is, it's murky. It's just muzzled. What you do with the big gesture: “Taste it what it wants”, fast and unbureaucratic help!, the Austrians are looking for it in vain. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It's just that there's no confidence in that, I have to say that clearly. How can we be confident if the Minister of Finance and, by the way, the Minister of Economic Affairs do not bring this rapid, rapid and unbureaucratic aid into line? Finally, you're also wasting the time that needs to be used so urgently, so that the companies don't go ahead and crack in front of the dogs. We said a few months ago that it's about every day. I know you're proud of money for short work now, but it's a liquidity trap, and that's exactly what we warned about. If these are not businesses that by chance have a good, solid equity ceiling – no, it is not always a coincidence, but of course there are also some coincidences, especially in seasonal areas, you know that quite the same – but small family businesses, then this is not the case for them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cannon]] You know that will come, and this is, of course, also due to these poor economic aids. That's your account then! Now I come to the budget to speak: What are you saying? If such criticism is expressed – and this is not the criticism of the opposition; I am going to go back to speaking not from the point of view of the opposition, but as a Member of the National Council, of the Parliament, and the National Council has budgetary law – and if such an old paper, as you yourself have called it, is presented, where the figures do not vote, which is ours, then you cannot wipe this criticism of the opposition as a substanceless one from the table. I heard the sentence again today, it would be insidious to make estimates now that everything is so volatile. And then you stay on the point of view: if already unscrupulous, then happen unscrupulous!, and stick to the figures of February? [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] I can't understand! You have the legal obligation to expect it or, if that is not possible, to appreciate it. And if there is a bandwidth, then just take a number and set up additional scenarios! What is it that prevents you from doing so? I have put great hope that, after the substantial criticism here in the house, but probably a little more after the media criticism – the criticism here in the house is actually grudging you, which you don't, Parliament doesn't care, that's the impression that arises; how the Members of the government can reconcile with their self-confidence is not quite clear to me – something changes. We know nothing is more toxic to the ÖVP, but increasingly also to the Greens, as well as to the journalists so close to you at once express criticism and say that this is not an appropriate procedure. Thankfully, I would also like to thank the SPÖ for its opinion, which concludes that what you have presented here is unconstitutional. So you didn't leave it so unspoiled, so you said you were now making an amendment. When I heard that yesterday, I thought: Well, fine, you learn to do that, that's fault culture, I think I'm fine, and now you're going to put something in some way to make these estimates! [[Making a resigned gesture:]] [[General hustle and bustle.]] What you sent yesterday at 23 o'clock is actually a further increase. You broke this down in rough headings and didn't do anything on the revenue side at all. And now you expect Parliament's confidence to increase? It is the most immediate and, in fact, most noble task of a Minister of Finance to present a proper budget to the House. If you don't want it or if you can't, you're not confident. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e62703	Next speaker: Mr Hans Stefan Hintner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e62728	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Our clubman Gust Wöginger said a few days ago in the press that the opposition needs its daily intruder to reach a certain height in the debate. I am glad that this has been the case several times today that you are satisfied. That would not be enough for me and for us. The same ones who criticize the budget in such a way that it does not contain more up-to-date figures – the numbers are not predictable – also send budget requests to the Christkind. Amazing is also the abundance of opposition resolutions – we believe that we are not in a crisis, but the money has been abolished. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Because of the motions for resolutions that we have received, the door does not go up! Not colleague Krainer and colleague Kickl and the opposition determine whether something is unconstitutional, but the Constitutional Court! A look at the community budgets – and we have a similar situation: In April, the proportions of income fell by 13 percent, in May by around 30 percent, and it would be equally unscrupulous to create a budget for the current period. There will also be a case crash in the autumn, that we can continue to work. All the more thank you very much for allowing us, with this billion, to give rise to investments for the communities, which are not due to the amount that we receive, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. Dear Gernot, in this sense: We trust you!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e62782	The next speaker is Mr Maximilian Lercher. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e62806	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you have said that we are satisfied with this budget because there is now an intrusion. I would like to reject this with all vehemence! We are, I think, all rightly concerned, and concerned, because you yourself know quite well that, because of the reasons we have not recognized – I assume once, because of vanity – you have not delivered to us what this Parliament has to do with. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Scherak]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, when my colleague, Mr Kopf, speaks of small-scale discussion here and my colleague, Mr Schwarz von Witzelei, I would also like to point this out very strongly, because it is our parliamentary, democratic duty to show where mistakes occur – and that is a huge one! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] That's a huge mistake, Minister of State! Three points – completely soberly analysed –: First: Your budget contains wrong numbers. They have not delivered other numbers despite multiple demand, despite petitions and supplications. Secondly, The budget does not contain a real crisis management plan. And thirdly, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: Despite your short-term amendment, the budget remains unconstitutional! [[It was in favour of SPÖ and NEOS, as well as members of the FPÖ.]] Mr Schwarz then said: You got a great amendment anyway! – What helps us if he's wrong? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We want to avert damage from the Republic together with you, and you are hesitating the opposition because of small arms. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is now time – a few minutes we still have time – to realize that we do not have to put party tactics ahead of the interests of this Republic! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Right!]] [[Call the ÖVP: There you have to laugh yourself!]] We are used to this by the ÖVP there and there anyway, that does not surprise us, but that the Greens, the self-proclaimed moral authority of this republic, are participating, that is a true scandal, ladies and gentlemen! [[It was in favour of SPÖ and NEOS, as well as members of the FPÖ.]] You, who teach on every occasion, let this go through to your coalition partner! If this had happened at the time of a Werner Kogler's opposition, he would have cut us to pieces in this house in constant speech, and now you take note of it! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Matznetter and Mr Meinl-Reisinger.]] What has become of the Green Party in view of this discussion? [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Scherak.]] Mr Minister, we were willing to give you confidence, unfortunately you yourself are guilty that there is no longer any more.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e62907	Next speaker: Mr Michael Schnedlitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e62932	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It's time for a summary, and if we start with what it looks like with the health protection of the population, then I have to say that there is a smooth not enough left. The task should be to protect the population, for example by means of protective equipment, but – I have already said this this week – you have done nothing but lock away our parents, grandparents and great-grandparents. This is not worthy of a country in 2020, which our parents, grandparents and great-grandparents did not deserve. - Shame! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Let us continue to the next building block: social assistance and measures for the population. There is also a smooth not enough for that, not only that you did not help and did not help, you have already managed all the serious things to be on the best way of transferring our country from a health crisis to an adult social crisis, precisely because of the chaos in your regulations and in the chaos of the rise of our country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what is the most dangerous thing that leads to an adult financial crisis following the social problems? – The most dangerous are sluggishness in the budget and inability to finance. What do you think, Minister of Finance Blümel, would a maturant get to the math matura if he quits his job and tells the teacher that it is not a single number? – A cracking Not enough he would get, Minister of Finance! [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Cheerfulness with the NEOS.]] That's exactly what you did with the budget, and as you laugh behind your mask here, the thing looks sad for our country: You do not play with your school degree, you play with the future of millions of Austrians, and that is not to laugh, Minister! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Your task would have been to give a convoluted job, whose figures correspond to the correctness – you have failed! As you have not fulfilled this task, this mistrust request is so important and the only right thing we can do in these days. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can't spare you one in the final summary: The amount note may give yourself for not complying with your own regulations, see Kleinwalsertal, and apparently prefer to move around the houses with my colleague Ho instead of working on a decent budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e63011	The next speaker is Mr Josef Schellhorn. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e63035	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Minister! Mr. Finanzminister! Many people at home, many entrepreneurs are probably wondering in these hours: How's it going now, how's it going? How do we react to the banks? You now have to experience this discussion, in which everything is defended by one side, it is all great anyway – just that thanks have not been said again. But one thing I've got to hold on to: To date, not 14 billion euros have flown but only 500 million euros! Mr Finanzminister, we also note that this economic aid is loans paid by entrepreneurs themselves. We further note that the short work that you have promised so great works, but the funds do not flow as announced. We also note that, above all, aid for the EPCs and micro-enterprises is not yet running as you have announced in numerous press conferences. As a third party, we take note: Although you promised four weeks ago that the banks now know what it's all about, the banks don't stick to what you agreed with them! That, although ÖHT and AWS promoters do excellent work, I have to say that. We taxpayers then receive an advertising letter from the financial administration for the interest rates. In what is in it – that is really – I really thought that the Minister of Finance did not know a genius, it broke out of the election campaign! [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] In a letter dated 18. May says: “Finance minister Gernot Blümel has the clear goal of strengthening our economy and bringing it through the crisis safely. This requires, among other things, rapid and unbureaucratic tools.” It's just that you didn't send a passport picture so people can put it in the torture home and thank you for how great you are! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This reminds us of Soviet times that you also have to praise what does not happen and we still have to be grateful! What the other speakers here always say are grateful, grateful: It doesn't work, and that's the jumping point! [[I would like to appeal to Mr Neos and Mr SPÖ, as well as to the members of the FPÖ.]] Now we come to the budget: As Minister, I believe you have made the promise to act with care, transparency and justice. Where's the care? Where is transparency and where is justice in this amendment? You only announce what you spend – and the revenues stay the same, that can't be your serious! If I go to the bank with that, they'll tell me: Turn around on the heel and slug di! - That's how it is for me. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the NEOS as well as with the SPÖ.]] But I have to tell you one thing, too: Yes, the economic researchers say that GDP will fall by 3 to 9 percent – but you could have delivered three scenarios! We worked 60 hours at the meetings of the Committee on Budgets, but that didn't happen – why not? One thing I would like to say now: If you vote for it now, dear Greens and Dear Turquoise, I would like to quote Ludwig Thoma, who said: [[Abg. Singer: They're not sweet!]] The several’n samma – but the leaf’n samma a.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e63096	Next item is the report by Mr Christoph Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e63117	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! These are a few strong words here – we have said that we want to deal seriously with the subject, and I start by making abjects. [[Call to the ÖVP: It won't go out with the speaking time!]] I have been in politics for a while, and I have already strongly criticized some finance ministers and finance ministers. [[Call the FPÖ:Continue! Keep going!]] I have actually corrected a Jakob Auer, who, as a budget speaker, called the budget of Karl-Heinz Grasser as a “point landing” and said: ‘I’m actually allowed to correct: A point is a geometric figure without extension.” [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I have done all of this, but I withdraw it, because what I experience here is inconceivable – the only truth is what “the daily press” writes today: Blümel gives off an empty budget and will celebrate. – Like the Maturants, but in which Minister Fäsmann enters – no one enters him, that is our problem! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with SPÖ as well as applause with FPÖ and NEOS.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as a parliament that has the sovereignty over the budget, he does not give us the right data – but the same Minister of Finance Gernot Blümel requires the entrepreneurs who apply for a fixed-cost grant to agree that their data will be passed on to MMM Multi-Media-Marketing Austria GmbH – a company owned by an ÖVP Federal Economic Officer from Upper Austria! Tell me, ladies and gentlemen, where are we no data for Parliament, and the entrepreneurs should deliver them? [[Complaints with SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS.]] Mr. Klubobmann Wöginger, I advise you: Talk to your party officer Sebastian Kurz! This is a vulnerability that falls back on him. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] The competence of the Minister of Finance cannot consist of close proximity to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, it is already a little more necessary. You have a staff reserve, I've often done enough about it – but in this benchmark everyone else is considered a staff reserve, as you should improve, Mr. Klubobmann! I put my trust in improving, but not in Gernot Blümel as Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e63189	Mr Klubobmann has now been informed of August Wöginger's speech. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e63231	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! The location determines the position, particularly in the case of budget debates. This is not new to me either, I have experienced this very, very often over the last 18 years in this house. I have not yet experienced a budget in which the opposition would have voted or contributed to this, no matter in which governmental constellation we found ourselves, whether we ruled with the liberals or with the SPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Now, in a coalition with the Greens, it will not be different either, because it is just that the location determines the position. Different positions are outlined, and the budget is the basis for the policy of the government groups, so it is quite understandable that there is a controversial debate. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Thank you!]] It is also quite the place where it is distributed, Mr Kickl was on the road today very detailed. We in the Inn district are told: Whoever distributes must also be able to plug in! And, Mr Kickl, it is nice that you came to us on the third day of this budget debate, because two days we have already been behind us, and yesterday at night you then informed us by OTS issue that you will make a mistrust request against the Minister of Finance. [[Oh-Rufe at the FPÖ]] Well, with requests for distrust, you have experienced, Mr Klubobmann Kickl, because when you were Minister of the Interior, you didn't pass six in the number in even a year, with us in agreement with us, as it is in a coalition, but six mistrusts in one year, so that you can get out in the statistics as an absolute winner, Mr. Kickl! [[Abg. Kickl: Unwarranted!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Lausch and Mr Amesbauer]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I can still remember that at the end of the FPÖ, it was always said: the best Minister of the Interior ever! [[Call at the FPÖ: So it is!]] [[Further calls and Bravorufe at the FPÖ.]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] But it's nice: At least that has remained to you in Ibiza, this unity when it comes to your former Minister of the Interior. [[Abg. Stefan:... the best finance minister!]] If you look closely at it, you could say that it has remained the greatest uncertainty in the constitutional protection, in the BAT. [[Abg. Worm: Go!]] One more thing has remained safe: These are the horses. The horses have remained – d’Ross is said to be at home with us –; two we have been able to return, and the others – in order to represent the budgetary context – still cost us money, nine will still have. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: You were there! ... unanimity! ... spins yes!]] D’Ross can't do that, but they've remained safe from your era, Mr. Kickl, you can say that with fug and law. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: August! August! You were there!]] [[Congratulations and cheerfulness at FPÖ, SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] – Look, Herbert, that was like that at the time: You've always been looking for the stalk in the meat, and with the police Ross, you'd have surpassed yourself soon. In government, too - but they stayed with you. [[Abg. Kickl: You were there! You were a climber!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Amesbauer and Vogl.]] No one needs a run-in police. The poor Ross can't help it, but they're still there and in the budget. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Matznetter and Mr Steger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A word on the entire budget debate [[Call:Let it be good]] [[Further call-ins]] Of course, it is a special situation, and this pandemic is a challenge for all of us, as is the subsequent economic crisis in which we are in. And, yes, we decide on a budget without having a valid data forecast for the revenue situation. We do not have them in large areas in expenditure either. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] We do not know how much the final billing of short-time work brings, we do not know how much the final settlement of fixed-cost subsidies brings, the hard-fall fund, the support measures that are now being drawn up here. [[Abg. Stefan: What do you even know?]] This is confirmed by all the experts. Christoph Badelt confirms that it is only in the autumn that the Cassascendant makes sense that it is currently - - - Mrs. Colleague, you do not have to be upset, but the casserole of course brings to the light of light, where you stand exactly, and we cannot say that now. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: A budget is not a cash crash! I'm sorry, that's...!]] [[New call for tender Meinl-Reisinger]] Therefore, we cannot currently publish valid revenue data, because everything is possible between minus 3.2 percent and 9 percent. Yeah, how would you like it? What are we going to write into the budget? [[Intervoke by Mr Loacker and Mr Doppelbauer.]] In a few days, this data would be outdated, and you know that exactly, ladies and gentlemen, and you would make it a blame for us! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Why do we still decide on this budget? [[Abg. Vogl: We ask ourselves that too!]] – Because we agreed to many projects together in the coalition. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] We also want to implement them in the area of police and federal army. In the debate, I have not noticed anything about it, even from the opposition politicians, that there has ever been any response to it. One has not been concerned that there is more resources for police and federal authorities, that there is more resources for justice, that there is more funding for rural areas, that climate change and environmental protection are particularly highlighted. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Miel-Risinger: Where have you been for the last few days?]] That was de facto only mentioned on the verge, if at all, and I'm telling you one thing: For us these are important measures, and that is why we also decide on this budget because we want these points to be implemented. [[New call for tender Meinl-Reisinger]] We have agreed on these together, and we stand by them, and they are also important for the Austrian population. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] At the same time, there are all the measures around Corona, around Covid, and we have a variety of support packages: from the hosts to the clubs to the municipalities. A word about the church package, because it is now crushed and zeracked: I don't know what else you can find bad about it. It supports investment costs of up to 50 percent at the municipal level in existing projects, which have been in place since 1. June 2019 started and cannot be financed now due to the Corona crisis, and also all new projects, both in the area of school and kindergarten, at all the community's own facilities, up to the centre of the town, museums, church renovation, sports courts, all leisure facilities in a municipality. In my small village of Sigharting with 800 inhabitants we get 86 000 euros from this pot. Yes, if this is not great support for the municipalities and for our rural area, I do not know, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Now one more word on the amendment, because he has triggered such a hello again, which does not surprise me, because it is always the case with budget debates, but I say one thing: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] We take your suggestions seriously. A bit funny was the expression organized opinion, which you said, Mr Kickl. What is an organized opinion? – An opinion can be commissioned, of which one hopefully does not yet know what comes out at the end of the day, but an organized opinion is a bit of a divisive formulation. I hope you meant that it commissioned the SPÖ, but it didn't organize it with a corresponding outcome. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] There are also opinions that say something quite different, but we accept your criticism, we take them seriously, and that is why these 28 billion euros will be divided into these four headings, as far as the entire Covid package is concerned. I don't know where the great excitement comes from now, because we actually live up to a desire of the opposition. I think this is living parliamentaryism, ladies and gentlemen, that we are taking this up here and taking it into the decision-making process. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Last but not least, ladies and gentlemen, because there is now again this red-blue dissent in the motion for a reluctance to a successful and popular finance minister. [[Call the SPÖ: That's good!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] It has been exactly one year yesterday that there has already been this dissension in this House. At that time it was a mistrust not only against the successful Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz, no, one immediately chased the entire government out of parliament and its offices. [[Abg. Vogl: We have chosen them, that is already a difference!]] I'll tell you one thing: Think well what you are doing, because the Minister of Finance is successful in this situation of crisis, he makes a great job. [[Abg. Belakovich: What?]] [[Abg. Belakovich: What?]] Austria can be proud of this federal government and especially of this Finance Minister! [[Abg. Belakovich: What?]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[New call of the abg. Belakovich.]] If you express your distrust again today, which will not find a majority, I also hope with regard to the coalition partner - - - – I know, but I do not think anyone, Mrs Mienl-Reisinger, will do so, as opposed to you! [[Highness with the NEOS and the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I'll tell you: They make a serious mistake again! In turn, they make a serious mistake, because after the election of the government Short I you have been severely reduced here in this House: minus 16 percent for these two parties. Mr Pilz is now back on the journalist level. Less than 16 percent! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would really consider giving this motion of censure real approval at your place, because it could go even further down. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Belakovich: For you too!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] It is not said that 21 percent and 16 percent are already the end of the flag rod. One last thing, Mr Kickl, is that the Kleinwalsertal must also be kept in this discussion: Do you know what the real difference between you and a Sebastian Kurzist? – When Sebastian Kurcin’s Kleinwalsertal comes, people come out of the houses with joy, they stay inside! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e63746	I now give the floor to Mrs Philippa Strache. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e63778	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Mr. Minister of Finance! I'm glad you're here now! I have slowly already had the impression that we do not only have a budget, but also that we do not have a finance minister, who presents himself to this debate, but who suddenly conjure up a new draft budget in a night and fog action, which we all do not know in detail. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] Over the night, there was a clear correction, from one day to the next, the budget expenditure increased from EUR 82 billion to over EUR 100 billion, and it is not even worth considering in detail. No, no, no, It is also quite shocking that Members here in the House would like to hold this debate. [[Congratulations on Members of SPÖ and Greens.]] Neither has this correction been serious, nor is the procedure serious, because – I have to join some previous speakers – this is nothing but an increase in Parliament: No item on the agenda is possible to discuss these figures honestly, no matter how important it is. Let me illustrate it a little, because I think the Austrians, too, have a right to hear clearly what has caused such annoyance to the opposition parties in the last few days here in Parliament. The budget proposal – if you can call it that way – is really a kind of black box. For three days now, we have been discussing numbers that are not available, numbers that are wrong, which are submitted or somehow exchanged, or are returned in some sort of autumn program. That's like talking about a box whose contents you don't know without knowing if the box actually has a floor or if it's an immeasurable barrel without soil. We have a large question mark on the revenue, and we have a major question mark on expenditure. This in total – the bill is relatively simple – also results in nothing but question mark. I do not understand, and many other colleagues here in Parliament do not understand this either. In particular, the Austrians do not understand this, which must live with these consequences. Parliament is being presented again or, I do not know, it may also be a kind of employment therapy to avoid unpleasant issues. Although I have heard the addition now, I still look different, because in fact, each one of us assumes that as a competent member of the government, you know the federal budgetary law, including the corresponding constitutional provisions. If not, I can strongly recommend this reading. You, Mr Finanzminister, are committed to this Constitution, to a constitution whose beauty and perfection the Federal President also speaks of, and it is perfect – perfect also for a crisis, because the constitutional federal proposal may in exceptional cases also be appreciated. But our Minister of Finance does not even do that! This is not only irresponsible, but also unconstitutional. I am glad that the honourable Members here in the House have also taken a close look at your so-called budget proposal. It has been improved, but it is still not possible to present a serially calculated or estimated budget figure, even though you have an army of capable, specialized employees – a separate section – that only deals with the budget. Can it really be that your budgetists, who have only had a budget as a task for years, cannot even appreciate a budget? Or is this happening in the Ministry of Finance, as in the health crisis staff, that while the specialists supply the well-founded expertise, the policy makes something completely different from the fact that your experts have made a very serious budget estimate, you simply stand there and say: They can't hold it!? – I cannot imagine that at best, because the experts in the ministries do excellent work. But no matter what it is about: Yes, it is a difficult, challenging time, yet every area deserves sufficient budget, sufficient respect and sufficient Resources, not just a fattened media and PR budget. Indeed, there has been more than enough investment. In fact, each one of us here in Parliament should come to this conclusion. We are representatives of the people, we must have in mind the interests of the people. What we decide here today is the tax burden of tomorrow's people, and I find it more than inappropriate to offer to the opposition parties who practice criticism: If you still have wishes or requests, you can make them. – The problem is just: It happens after the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e63859	Ladies and gentlemen, you must come to the conclusion!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e63874	I'm telling you who's going to ask you here, the population. She quite rightly sees it differently. I would have done the following if I had had the opportunity to do so – as a non-attached Members, however, I am too small –: Transparency is different, and I think it would have been a grateful option for you Greens if you would have called for a name-named vote. Then you would have to stand straight at your base for what is decided here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e63902	Next item is the report by Mr Nikolaus Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e63923	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! Mr Wöginger has motivated me to go back to the speaker's desk. He has rightly said that the location determines the position and that, since it was in Parliament – it is a little longer here than I – the opposition has never agreed to a budget and has always strongly criticized it. Since I've been here, it has always been. This has always been highly criticised and has also tried to make a constructive contribution. And a party that, in the long time, spoke of August Wöginger, I think, has never agreed to a budget, were the Greens. It was the party that has always said that she wants to do things differently in the future – that was one of the essential things that she has always made progress – that was the party that has always promised transparency over recent years, which has always spoken of living parliamentaryism, which has rightly and vehemently excited every time an amendment has come too late, and has called for the budget debates to be taken seriously. [[Abg. Schellhorn:... Stand!]] I remember the time when I was still a judge and, together with the former Justice Officer of the Greens, Albert Steinhauser, I have always agreed to the Justice Budget that the principles of budgetary truth, budgetary transparency and budgetary clarity are being met. That's when it came to small things. It was always about hiding staff in the judicial service agency, and Mr Steinhauser and I discussed with the Minister of Justice for hours that he did not take the basic rules of the budget seriously and disregard them. I'll tell you something. The former Green Judge, Albert Steinhauser, would be ashamed of this group, which is now not in accordance with these principles in all areas. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And: That's not the only one. You have to ask the old people who fled from Parliament at the time: what Daniela Musiol would say or Harald Walser, who has always fought for a living parliamentarism, what Dieter Brosz would say, who is now the chief of the cabinet of Mr Vice-Chancellor – at least, as I have read, or no more – and every time an amendment has somehow come a few minutes too late, you have been right to start your debates on the Rules of Procedure, because he has instructed a living Parliament. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smart]] [[Calls:Pirklhuber, Schwentner...]] I don't need to list all the others, Judith Schwentner, Wolfgang Pirklhuber – there are quite a lot. But one would have been particularly ashamed of this Green Group, and this is the former Green Budget speaker, who is now Vice-Cancellor and is very excitedly sitting there. I've been watching him, he's actually here, but he's not listening to this debate. [[Rejoicing with representatives of NEOS, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] This could be because he is ashamed of this green group and of himself. [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Werner Kogler would have been a budget speaker again, perhaps not 12 hours in this situation, but 24 or perhaps 36 hours. He would have talked to the Committee on Budgets on the ground. He would have shot a federal government, which has such a budget, by the sun and the moon, and now he must experience how his own party together with him all these principles that the Greens obviously once had – for now they no longer have them – overboard. Dear Greens, you put in the election campaign: “Who would choose the suit?” You have made a promise to your voters, and you have broken this promise. I'll tell you something: The state he will never choose you again.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e64000	Next speaker: Mr Hannes Amesbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e64021	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The acting that Klubobmann Wöginger has been preparing here at the end of this three-day budget debate is really remarkable. He has not only led us to congratulate the EIA on a nocturnal amendment, but he has ended this debate for his group with a distraction maneuver. He has nothing better to do, and this is in times when there are a lot of billions and economic damage, which is not yet covered in all its dimensions, to which long-term damage is to come. In times of personal fates, social crises and human existences facing destruction, he comes and makes fun of the police horses, as he has said, of Mr. Kickl. It is supposed to be the only thing left out of our government participation. [[Intervocations with ÖVP and Greens.]] I am surprised that you see the government work of the period Short I so badly: the historical reform of social security funds, the family bonus, everything a fool? - But this is so bad horse! It would only interest me – because you also said that this horseman does not need a human being at all – why, for example, delegations of police riders from the Netherlands, Bosnia and Serbia are just here, look at this and have a high interest in these horses. [[call to the FPÖ]] So it can't have been that bad, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Bad and unreasonable in this whole story was that this project, which was on track before it was even tested and put into operation, is simply turned off because it doesn't fit in politically. - But be it! It is actually about something quite different, ladies and gentlemen. It is about Mr Blümel presenting us with a budget that he himself said was for the dungy. Then, after days, weeks of budgetary deliberations in the committees and after two days of budgetary deliberations here in Parliament, where you were told by all parties and also by external experts that it is an insanity to present such a budget for decision-making that the whole work you are now trying to decide with green aid is most likely unconstitutional, therefore a midnight or midnight amendment proposal, two-and-a-half pages, but also billions strong. However, we continue to discuss the previous figures all day, and you want us to simply decide. Ladies and gentlemen, that's not how it works. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is not only unconstitutional, it is not only an uplifting of Parliament, it is also an insult to the people who are afraid of their existence. That's really inconceivable what you're doing. Dear colleague Wöginger, you also made fun of the fact that we call Herbert Kickl the best interior minister ever. – Yes, we do, we stay there, Herbert Kickl was the best minister of the interior all the time! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am curious if you, dear Gust Wöginger, will ever trust you to say that Gernot Blümel was the best finance minister of the Republic, that he was at all a good finance minister of that Republic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller]] Dear Gust, I think we'll never hear this statement from you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] Ladies and gentlemen, especially ladies and gentlemen of the Green Group, we are helping Gernot Blümel. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] I think he is happy if he can no longer exercise this office, which he apparently does not really want, because he is in mind already in the Vienna election campaign and spiritually perhaps already – max., it won't be rich anymore – Vice-Citizen in Vienna. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It will be very, very difficult for the Deputy Mayor. [[Call:You can choose the light peace because it's already there]] But let's save him, please! Let us free him from this burden of the Office of the Minister of Finance! We may do him a personal favor. But above all, as parliamentarians and citizens in this country, we are doing a favour for taxpayers, which no longer needs to be allowed to afford this Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e64123	The next item is Mr Jörg Leichtfried. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e64144	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not intend to admit this openly, but now that I have listened to colleagues Amesbauer and previous colleagues Wöginger, I have thought that I will also contribute to the horse debate. [[Cheerfulness with SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS.]] I can well remember that it was in the time before this coalition, I stood out here at the pult and Mr. Kickl was not sitting in front of me, but on the left of me, which was very strange of feeling anyway. [[Abg. Kickl: From there it was on the right!]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] It was in the debate about these horses. I dared to criticize the acquisition, use and use of these horses – for good reasons, and yes, perhaps vehement. Who, do you think, has opposed me from among the government's ranks to the most vehemently and has intervened in the most vehemently? – It was the ÖVP. I have to say one thing: You can be a lot, but you certainly are not a team attitude. [[Consistency with SPÖ and FPÖ as well as with the Abg. Loacker.]] If we are already in position, location and position, I would like to say one more thing: [[Abg. Sobotka: Good acting!]] That disappointed me a little. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] - Yes, I was disappointed. I have already assumed that there are certain basic parliamentary values, all of us in our thoughts, one in our minds. Then August Wöginger says – here at the pult he stands and says it –: Yes, and you chased Sebastian Kurz and his government away. I mean, What kind of understanding is that? [[Call:Genau]] If, because of their own prepotence and their own superiority, a government loses the majority in this house, then it is not hunting it, but then it happens to it right, and it is good that it is gone. [[Calls and calls between FPÖ and SPÖ MPs]] That's what you see as parliamentarians. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But now to the budget, to the budget debate and to the performance of our Minister of Finance, who is at the ÖVP Open in the Candy Crush. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] You can say a lot about the ÖVP, you can probably say a lot that I do not agree with. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Sobotka: That's right!]] But I do think: What ÖVP always has is usually a plan what it does. [[Call at the ÖVP:In contrast to the SPÖ!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I've been wondering all the time: What is this plan now at the budget? Why do they make the flower look so bad? Why do they buy it? Someone has now said that Mr Kickl was the one with most mistrust, and it will always remain that way. – If blossom remains, I don't think Kickl remains the superstar. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Why do they do that? I have just telephoned Hannes Androsch, and he has said the following - now you are laughing about it -, the ÖVP's plan is actually to abolish Parliament's budgetary authorisation in the medium term, and that Mr Blümel, like the Sun King, can say something like this with his 38 billion general permission: [[Rejoicing and interlocutors with representatives of the ÖVP]] [[towards ÖVP]] I'm the budget. [[Abg. Lopatka: Go!]] The stupid thing is: He can't. That's what you've noticed afterwards. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] When we came to it and, above all, when the public felt that he had proposed a constitutional budget and an unconstitutional law with this plan, he suddenly left the muffs. He then believed that in the middle of the night one can reorganize this with a request. – No, it cannot be restored in the middle of the night with a request that is as bad as the budget itself. But what worries me, and I agree with colleagues Scherak: The ÖVP is confident that it wants to implement this plan, but that the Greens are participating in it, that the Greens are involved in limiting one of the core competences of our National Council, our Parliament, which is really a great disappointment, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sobotka]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] Now I would like to come to you, Minister of Finance. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Gernot Blümel is a bit like Karl-Heinz Grasser, just worse. It is similarly incompetent, but even more remote and even more overestimating. [[Call the ÖVP:Na, na!]] This, of course, results in what you do. That explains why – while countless people are afraid of their economic existence, while necessary promotions do not arrive, while hundreds of thousands of people are unemployed or in short work, while people can no longer sleep at night because they have concerns about how things continue – here present a budget that does not, at all, improve this situation. That explains your quality, as I have just described it before, Minister of State. They are completely overwhelmed with this situation. [[Abg. Wöger: (in the direction of SPÖ)]] [[Call the ÖVP:And you with this speech!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] The worst thing is, in this crisis – I am going into the field of hospitality now, because Mr. Obernosterer has caught up with the subject a day ago – every confectionery, yes, every lift operator, too, is right, yes, every pastry, every sausage stand, every hotel is capable of, and is also able to calculate at least in terms of start and estimate what the next weeks, the next few months will bring. [[Call the ÖVP: No insults!]] [[towards Abg. Hörl]] [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] And that's all right. This is what Mr Obernosterer told us well, and Mr Matznetter gave us the suggestion – I think that was yesterday – that Mr. Obernosterer would perhaps be more qualified than colleague Blümel. I don't know if Mr Obernosterer would be a good finance minister, he would definitely be better. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! It turns out – that is, the ÖVP is very troubled today, one has to say – that the Minister of Finance is overwhelmed with this situation. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] It can be seen that a fake budget has been presented. It can be seen that the situation has not been improved by means of interim applications. Mr Blümel, that is why we also believe that you are not suitable for this office. We therefore also believe that you are not suitable for this office, because you lack the slightest opinion. That's why, I mean, it'd be good if you were going on your own. If you do not, we will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to return to the Wöginger’s position and location discussion. [[Call the ÖVP:Na bravo!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sobotka.]] Mr Wöginger has also argued in another debate that we are saying this because we are in the opposition and because we have to do so. But there are also other people who see this similar. A non-social-democratic journalist, Peter Michael Lingens, wrote the following: “If you look at your performance, Gernot Blümel would also have to resign. All he has promised – rapid, unbureaucratic assistance to small and medium-sized enterprises – was so little that the interested parties have rightly assessed it with ‘not enough’ in their majority.” It wasn't enough, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e64464	No one has been reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Before we come to a number of votes, I ask the presidents of the club whether they want to interrupt a session. We agreed at the Presidential Conference in such a way that this question should always be addressed to you before we vote. – There is no need to interrupt the session. Then I come to the votes. Firstly, I am voting on the motions for referral back to committee. There is a referral request from Members Krainer, colleagues and colleagues on item 6 on the agenda. I therefore begin by voting on the proposal on BFRG 2020 by 2023 in 182 of the Supplements to the Budget Committee. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. On item 7 there is also a referral request, namely Mr Dipl.-Ing. Double farmers, ladies and gentlemen. I therefore agree to refer the draft Federal Finance Act 2020, together with investments in 55 of the Supplements, once again to the Budget Committee, taking into account the amendments to the Committee's report 183 of the Supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Draft federal law, which adopts the Federal Financial Framework Act 2020 until 2023, together with the title and receipt in 182 of the Supplements. If you vote in favour of the draft law, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives the consent in third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall vote on the motions for resolutions tabled to item 6 in the order in which they are submitted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Gerhard Deimek, colleagues on “Research Finance Law with Growth Path Now!” Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. Vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Christian Hafenecker, colleagues, on 'non-across-border motorists by limiting speeds in the local area to 30 km/h, on freeways at 80 km/h and on motorways at 100 km/h: Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. Vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Christian Hafenecker, colleagues, on the extension of public transport – implementation of ‘nearly billions’ now! I call for a sign to be given to those who support this motion for a resolution. – This is the minority, rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hermann Brückl, colleagues, on the'so-called return to regular education without masquerade pressure'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. motion for a resolution by Mr Martin Graf, ladies and gentlemen, on the increase in vocational education funding rates now! I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: The Federal Finance Act 2020, together with the investments in 55 of the Supplements, takes into account the changes resulting from the Committee's report 183 of the Supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Obernoster, Mr Schwarz, Mr Hizu, have tabled an amendment or amendment. There are also two requests for separate vote. Therefore, I will first vote on Appendices I to IV and then on the text of the Federal Finance Act 2020 and, in accordance with this classification, will bring to the vote the parts affected by the supplementary or amendment, as well as the request for separate vote, to the vote. I will have the resolutions submitted to the draft Federal Finance Act 2020, together with the proposals for a resolution, voted on the third reading in the order of their submission. Annexes I to IV Firstly, we shall proceed to a separate vote on breakdown 01 of Annex I as amended by the Government template. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the division 02 of Annex I as amended by the Government template. Whoever speaks for 02, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Mr Obernosterer, Mr Jakob Schwarz, colleagues, tabled an amendment or amendment concerning Annex I, subheadings 45 and 58 and amendments to Annexes I, I.a to I.e and III. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of Annex I and on Annexes II and III as amended by the Government template, taking into account the parts of the supplementary or amending proposal which have just been adopted. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We are now coming to a separate vote on division 02 of Annex IV as amended by the Government template. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall vote on the remaining parts of Annex IV, not yet coordinated, as amended by the Government's proposal. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This too is accepted by a majority. Text of the Federal Finance Act 2020 We shall now proceed to the vote on the text of the Federal Finance Act 2020. Mr Obernosterer, Mr Schwarz, Mr Schwarz, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an amendment on Articles I, V and VI. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the text of the Federal Financial Act 2020, together with the receipt in the version of the Government template in 55 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendments to the Committee's report 183 of the Supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. This concludes the second reading of the Federal Finance Act 2020, together with investments. [[Abg. Krainer: Business treatment!]] [[Abg. Wöger: It's vote!]] [[Abg. Krainer: No! This is expressly permitted!]] One second, deputies! Before we come to the vote in third reading, I have a speech on business treatment. I give the floor to Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e64598	Madam President. I know that there is, of course, an excitement now because this is an unusual time, but I believe that both ÖVP and Greens will still be grateful to me for this speech. The Minister of Finance, who is now looking back into the mobile phone, probably believes that it was decided at second reading that the limit for the budget was 102,389,239,000 euros. I have a bad news – also for colleagues on the government bank: As a result of its amendment, it has just been decided that the ceiling for the budget is 102,389,24 euros. [[Call the SPÖ: Oh, oh!]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS.]] I also have a good news: I know how to fix this for the third reading. In this respect, according to § 74 GOG-NR, I may submit the request to postpone the third reading at a later date, and I also request according to § 59 para. 2 GOG-NR a debate on this. I would suggest that this vote be taken at 3rd reading tomorrow at 9 a.m. in the morning. My team and I will be available tomorrow from 8 p.m. to make or formulate this necessary request – you have to bring it yourself – so that the maximum payment limit is not 102 000 euros, but really 102 billion euros. [[Call at the FPÖ: What does it cost?]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] Who doesn't believe it: This amendment has been distributed and everyone can read the number there. In fact, there is no indication in the BFG, namely, “amounts in millions of euros”. Unfortunately, it's not there. That is why it is simply the number that stands, and that is 102 000 euros and not 102 billion euros. That is why I am trying to interrupt the session so that we can resolve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e64670	Please, ladies and gentlemen. I am now going to proceed as our Rules of Procedure provides, because I am asking if there are any further statements on business. Mr. Klubobmann Wöinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e64694	Madam President. I am trying to interrupt the session briefly.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e64718	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! However, the sitting is not adjourned until I interrupt the sitting as President-in-Office. This is not the case yet. [[Unrest in the hall.]] There is no duty to attend, but we are in the current session. I ask the other clubs if there is a word on the Rules of Procedure. – If that is not the case, I will now interrupt the session. I would ask the members of the Presidential Conference to meet for a meeting. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e64760	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I'll start the interrupted session again. I have a word for business treatment. Please, Mr Krainer.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e64795	Madam President. Just one question: Is the Minister of Finance still coming? - But we don't need him anymore, that's all right. [[Call: You don't know]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] I withdraw both requests filed by me on the basis of the agreements in the President, which was in accordance with § 74 GOG-NR and according to § 59 para. 2 GOG-NR, because there is now a reasonable solution that is in this sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e64833	Please, Mr. Klubobmann Wöinger.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e64857	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We support this solution, but I would like to say that One thing I've already said about it: From our point of view, it is about a formal mistake that has happened, and therefore it would have been possible to fix it in a short time. However, we have now agreed in the President that the third reading, together with its votes tomorrow, will be held so that this formal mistake, which has just happened, can be resolved with a separate request concerning this area. This budget can then be decided. I would just like to stress that it would have been possible today, but the agreement has just taken place in such a way that it will be voted on tomorrow. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e64904	Mr Klubobmann, it is a bit difficult to talk about an agreement in a debate on the Rules of Procedure, but I have not yet informed all the Members of the House. [[Cheerfulness with SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS.]] I have just asked Mr Krainer to withdraw his requests because they would otherwise have come to the vote. If there is now no more word on the Rules of Procedure – that is what it is – I would like to tell you that we discussed the matter in detail at the Presidential Conference and explained it and agreed that according to § 74 para. 2 calls for an application to be made to resolve contradictions so that the same as provided for in the Rules of Procedure can take place before the third reading. In order to prepare this request and to carry it out properly, we agreed to interrupt the sitting, start it again tomorrow at 8.30 a.m. and continue on the agenda. Following the agenda of the meeting, as planned, there will be an allocation meeting which will not reach the call before 9 a.m. and we will follow up with the agenda of the 34. Continue the meeting of the National Council. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I am now interrupting this sitting until tomorrow at 8.30 a.m. The sitting was suspended. [[19:22:56]] [[The meeting would be held on Thursday, 28. May 2020, at 7.22 p.m. and on Friday, 29. May 2020, resumed at 8.34 p.m.]] [[08:34:56]] Continued the meeting: 8.34 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e64973	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I will resume the interrupted session and I would like to give you a very warm welcome to the continuation of the 32rd session. Welcome the meeting of the National Council – this time a little earlier than usual. I can also welcome the journalists and the spectators at home in front of the televisions. First of all, to the procedure: We're back in the relaxed seating order. Deputies Kira Grünbergand Mag are reported as prevented. Christian Ragger. The ORF has been transferring this meeting to ORF III since 8.30 p.m. and to ORF 2 live from 9.05 a.m. We come to the third reading on agenda item 7: There's a request from Mr Gabriel Obernosterer, Mag. Dr. Jakob Schwarz, BA, colleagues according to § 74 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure for resolving contradictions arising from the decision-making at second reading, at the third reading. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs Klubobfrau Meinl-Reisinger spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e65051	Mr President. I make the request in accordance with § 74 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, that a debate be held on the request for a resolution of contradictions filed at the third reading of the draft Bundesfinanzgesetz.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e65072	We shall vote on this. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[08:36:42]] Debates of the European Parliament 3 GOOD
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e65103	We have reached an agreement on the speaking time in the President-in-Office. The speaking time is according to § 74 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure limited to 5 minutes. In addition, the following Rules of Procedure were agreed between the clubs: a round of speakers with 5 minutes per club, each counter and pro. Mr Krainer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e65129	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It's good that we fix this so that we have a federal constitution law that works. Less good – I have to say that openly – is less good: We still consider it unconstitutional because the revenue side is not presented. I honestly do not understand why the EIA and the Greens are not willing to change this in such a way that the budgetary truth is respected. But we are glad when this works because it is crucial for us that the help is coming. That hasn't happened until now. In any case, we do not want to stand in the way if the government does what it needs to do, namely to finance small and medium-sized enterprises, unemployment benefit, short-time work and so on. I think it's all decisive that the state is working in a crisis situation right now. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as MEPs from Greens and NEOS.]] I think we must also consider how we make a good quality legislation. It is clear that in the amendments written at midnight, errors can occur. These errors, however, have serious effects in practice. If we don't see this and it's only discovered when it's in the federal law paper, then the Republic may be faced with technical inability to pay, and even if everyone sticks together, it could take several days to fix it and get it done. Such a thing must not happen and such a thing is, quite honestly, not necessary! We pointed out at the end of April that the budget needs to be updated. The fact that this happened only in the last minute has led to these errors that could have had disastrous effects. In this case, as Mr Wöginger said yesterday, 8 hours have been enough to see that. But it doesn't always have to be that you see it. There are Members and club workers in all clubs who look closely, and someone else could have seen it; it is good that it was seen. Often 8 hours are too few to see such mistakes, and so I really insist on thinking so that we make higher-quality laws. I don't want to beautify myself with foreign feathers: Of the five serious mistakes we have discovered in this process – the account that does not exist, and so on – I have only seen one. We are a team, we are a parliamentary team in the budget committee, and we have excellent staff in the club. I don't want to beautify myself with foreign feathers: That's what our chief judge saw. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e65172	The honourable Member is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e65194	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! “Amounts in millions of euros” – four words, which naturally have corresponding effects in a 1,500-page budget. I'm allowed to join my colleagues. Krainer thank you for his very constructive speech. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] It is simply necessary to make this correction so that everything is formally correct. It is important to stress that it is really important for us to decide on this federal budget 2020 and the medium-term financial framework. He brings more money to justice, he brings more money for security in Austria and he brings more money to rural regions. All this has been decided before the Corona crisis, these are investments that we urgently need. - That's the one aspect. The second aspect: This new budget also creates the technical framework so that we can get through the corona crisis as best we can. It includes a 28-billion euro programme, which has now been divided into four headings; the opposition has also been met. The programmes that we urgently need are thus technically secure: Hardfall funds, Coronahilfsfonds, community package – I am a financial agent myself in a community; it is extremely important that we can make investments in the municipalities – the host package, the artist package and the package for the non-profit organisations that are currently being intensively negotiated. These are many, many important measures to get through the crisis accordingly. Finally, I can say: I think we have a very intensive budget debate behind us, three days with sometimes very good debates, with sometimes – in my perception – less good debates. Anyway, I think it is high time we decided on the 2020 budget because it is a good budget for Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e65242	Member of the Fuchs has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e65263	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Estimated members of the Federal Government! I would like to draw a brief summary of the entire budget process, including the aid measures that we agreed to jointly at the beginning of the Corona crisis, and I would like to say one thing: The government parties talk to the opposition, but they don't listen to us. [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of SPÖ and NEOS.]] You really have the feeling that things are going to be ridiculous very often. I can recall an experience – without mentioning its name – when we discussed the first “Corona Report” in May under quotation marks; I would not call it a report – briefly in committee. The date of this report was 31.3., and I have allowed myself to say that this report is very, very, very good for improvement that many things do not fit. When I discuss relief measures in May, the discussion must be based on an up-to-date report, not a reference date report, which is two months old. To quote an example of this: We know how important the short-time work is, we also know that we have now reserved EUR 12 billion for short-time work, we know that 1.3 million workers are affected. What has been said in this Covid report? – 10,000 entrepreneurs have applied for short work. That's not information for me! From every daily newspaper, even from the boulevards, you can get more information than from this report. When I allowed myself to say that, the comment came from an ÖVP member: Ask him what you want to know! - It can't be. The Federal Minister is obliged to report accordingly, and these reports must be up-to-date. And when the report is ready for a deadline – when we discuss it in May, that can't be the 31st. be on March; You even write in the reasoning for your amendments that something is changing every day – and that has changed essential things – then I can expect at least in the Committee there to be an information sheet with the latest figures and that will be discussed with us – and not some one. Old report, which is not yet relevant to this. [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of SPÖ and NEOS.]] I therefore believe that there is absolutely a need for a Covid-19 subcommittee because these things simply need to be discussed on a daily basis and not as an annex to a report where tax revenue and tax expenditure of the corresponding month – keyword of monthly success – are discussed. The Minister of Finance said he had the budget on 18 November. March twirled. On 20.3. we had the debate on the budget statement of the Federal Minister, on 8 March. May we had the hearing. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== We have been discussing a budget for six days in the Committee on Budgets, which is not true. Today is the fourth plenary day of the plenary week. We have really been very, very friendly to point out that we want to discuss current figures. This has been refused because the Minister of Finance has meant that every number he would write in would prove to be wrong. If he had acted in time, then this Lapsus, who happened yesterday, probably wouldn't have happened.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e65318	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e65333	The final sentence: It is unworthy of a Parliament to decide a budget which does not take into account revenue. We must be aware – and we will also vote against it – that the Federal Government, the government parties today decide on a budget that is wrong in content, because the revenue is still the revenue that was estimated before the Corona era. That is simply wrong, but you did not want to fix this mistake, that is, even this amendment is basically a cowardice! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e65360	The word is Klubobfrau Maurer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e65382	Mr President. Minister of Foreign Affairs! Ladies and gentlemen! I am now quite glad that this debate is going through the stage so objectively and without a hammer. I would like to expressly thank Flo Steininger, the lawyer who clearly found this – the head of the SPÖ club. [[Call the SPÖ: Chefjurist!]] He is indeed an excellent lawyer and someone who always works very objectively. [[I should like to congratulate Greens and SPÖ, as well as representatives of ÖVP, FPÖ and NEOS.]] You also have to admit without envy: The detection of this mistake was perfectly staged yesterday by Jan Krainer. [[Congratulation with Greens, ÖVP and SPÖ.]] But I would like to point out another point – Flo Steininger has found this error –: We have quite a lot of employees in the cabinets, in our clubs working on the laws, and such a mistake as that accidentally a line is deleted can always happen. It is good that he has been found, I am very grateful for that, and I think that also underlines once again, as we had in this extremely challenging Corona period, that cooperation in Parliament can also work well. I would like to thank you for this and also for the constructive nature of this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e65429	Mrs Klubobfrau Meinl-Reisinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e65451	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, look at you today! Yes, mistakes can happen, that's no question at all. In this case, it is not a formal error, but it would be a very massive error in content, unfortunately it must be said that it had already had an effect on content. That is why it is also quite clear that we have created this opportunity today or have agreed together that this request for a solution to contradictions is made because that is the only good way out of this mess. However, this is already in a whole series and leads to the question of how this budget came to be and how the budget process has been done. It has also been said by my previous speakers: You, Mr Finanzminister, have said for yourself that this is a budget for bubbling. It may not even be worth the paper on which the numbers stand. ==References== April, I don't know exactly, but at the end of April, you reported, as it were, corrected numbers – yes, I know, that's something else, but still –, corrected figures of revenue and expenditure in Brussels, and since 30. In the course of the budget debate which has been debated for weeks on April, we point out that what is available here is not in line with the principle of budgetary truth, that it is a Parliament's disdain not to correct these figures. It is perfectly clear – and I am now saying it for the third time – and everyone understands that this will not keep to the point in such a difficult situation, but it is also quite clear that you have the legal responsibility and obligation to make an estimate. You have now made it for expenditure, made it sloppy, but you have not made it for revenue, and that is not understandable. This budget lacks seriousness and responsibility. Why this is so important is also clear – for this reason we have debated very intensively about it now as regards this additional expenditure: We are dealing with the urgent need for economic aid. I sometimes think that maybe you didn't want to correct revenue and expenditure at all, not make a statement, because of course economic development always has a lot to do with psychology. And once a number is fixed, for example, that you expect a tax drop of some ten billion, then it is black on white that there is no optimistic estimate for this year. But it is not possible, you are still legally obliged to do so. Because the economy and because the recovery from this break-in has so much to do with psychology and confidence, it would be so important to launch rapid, unbureaucratic, successful, successful assistance measures that really arrive at businesses, entrepreneurs, and nothing of them can be seen. I would like to address another issue in this regard, because this mistake, this sluggishness, is included in a number of sluggishnesses in the legislation that we have experienced in recent months, even years. I remember how many laws from the previous Turkish-Blue era were repealed by the Constitutional Court. - It's made bad. There is a lack of seriousness, there is no responsibility towards the Austrian federal constitution. I recall the very first regulation of the Minister of Health, wherever it became clear that it is legal, if not unconstitutional. I Remembering the then thank God was quite quickly withdrawn from the Easter decree of Mr. Federal Minister Anschober, who would have been clearly unconstitutional. We need seriousness in law. We need to create the best laws and not create the fastest laws. That's very important. And this requires the best officials with many years of experience. But what do you do – and I look very consciously toward the ÖVP because you are Grand Master in it – what do you do? – They primarily rely on key positions in the ministries due to party-political membership. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] In the long term, they are damaging the high quality of the civil service's work in the administration and also legislation. Take your nose! If we are soon to occupy the budget section in the Ministry of Finance, we will look at whether it is a man or a woman, an official with many years of experience or someone who is put out of the cabinet there. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e65524	The debate is closed. [[08:56:37]] Continued voting on agenda item 7
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e65545	Before we come to the voting process, do I ask the clubs whether a session is wanted? - No, I don't. We shall come to the vote. There is a request from Members of the Upper Nosterer, Black for a resolution of contradictions in third reading according to § 74 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure which were adopted at second reading. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law at third reading, taking into account the just-decided request to resolve contradictions. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions tabled to item 7 in the order in which they are put in place. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Lausch, colleagues on UG 17, 'a package of measures for public service servants in the security field'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mrs Scherak, Members of Parliament concerning UG 03, ‘additional financial resources of the Constitutional Court’. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Scherak, colleagues with regard to UG 04, 'additional financial resources of the Administrative Court'. Who's for it? – Again the same voting behaviour, that is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Leichtfried, colleagues in relation to UG 10, on the "saving of the German Chancellor's staging million". Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Zanger, colleagues on UG 06, on the extension of the Court of Auditors' audit competence. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We come to the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Steger, ladies and gentlemen concerning UG 17, 'to enable gymnasium training and to open sports venues'. Who's for it? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Steger, colleagues and colleagues concerning UG 17, 'financial emergency aid for sport'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is also the minority, rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Shetty, ladies and gentlemen, concerning UG 17, 'Savebreeding. Now implement tailor-made solutions for SMEs and EPUs’. Who's for it? – This is also the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hafenecker, colleagues, on UG 10, 'Covid-19 Transparency Package'. Who's for it? – The minority, the request is also rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Volker Reifenberger, colleagues on UG 32, on ‘Ending Maskenzwang – Invigorating art and culture’. Who's for it? – This is the minority, rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Volker Reifenberger, colleagues on UG 32, 'Insolvency insurance for vouchers issued on the basis of the Art, Cultural and Sports Code'. Who's for it? – This is the minority, rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Drozda, colleagues on UG 32, 'long-term investment programme of EUR 1 billion for the cultural and creative economy'. Who's for it? – This is the minority, rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Brückl, colleagues on UG 32,'sudden agreement on a collective agreement for workers of the Federal Museums and the Austrian National Library'. Who's for it? – This is the minority. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Petra Bayr, colleagues on UG 12, 'Austria's international COVID-19 aid. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Lausch, colleagues on UG 13, 'better budgetary and human resources for the judiciary'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Krisper, colleagues on UG 13, 'The only thing to intervene in one is the right to intervene'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Amesbauer, colleagues on UG 18, on the suspension of asylum law. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Amesbauer, colleagues on UG 11, 'financial improvement of executives'. Who's for it? – This is the minority. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Rauch, ladies and gentlemen, on UG 43, on the introduction of a single-sink packaging deposit system. Who's for it? – This is the minority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Michael Hammer, Mr David Stögmüller, colleagues on UG 14, on'strengthening the militia through the removal of social disadvantages'. Who's for it? – That is unanimous. [[37/E]] We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Reinhard Eugen Bösch, Mr Robert Laimer, Mr Douglas Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff, Mr UG 14, on the "necessary need to increase the Federal Government budget". Who's for it? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr David Stögmüller, Mr Michael Hammer, colleagues on UG 14, 'Strengthening the Autarchy of Kasernen'. Who's for it? – unanimously. [[38/E]] We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bösch, colleagues on UG 14, 'Re-introduction of the 8 months of basic defence in model 6 + 2 months'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Angerer, colleagues with regard to UG 40, on ‘Ending the force of mass – boosting trade and gastronomy’. Who's for it? – This is the minority. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members of the European Parliament, Members of the European Parliament, on UG 40, on the resolution of the Chambers of Commerce' reserves in support of local businesses. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of support. – This is the minority. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Rauch, ladies and gentlemen, concerning UG 40, 'unbureaucratic emergency aid to businesses through full compensation for financial damage caused by forced closures'. Who's for it? – This is the minority. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Peter Schmiedlechner, colleagues on UG 42, on the suspension of agricultural marketing contributions to the discharge of domestic farmers. Who is for that, I ask him to consent. – This is the minority. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hauser, colleagues on UG 42, 'to involve private owners of apartments within the framework of the domestic acquisition of a maximum of ten beds in the Coronavirus hardening fund'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Shetty, colleagues on UG 42, on the automatic withdrawal of exceptional civilian servants. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Angerer, fellow Members on UG 42, on the "co-introduction of low-cost wood". Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hammerschmid, colleagues on UG 30, 'Education billions: the future of our children is system-relevant'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Künsberg Sarre, Mr Hammerschmid, Mr Brückl, colleagues on Mr UG 30, 'Language promotion'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Martina Künsberg Sarre, colleagues on UG 31, 'Increasing the budget of the Science Fund'. Who is for that, I ask him to consent. – This is the minority. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues on UG 10, 'Increasing the budget for women's affairs and equality'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Ecker, ladies and gentlemen, on UG 10, on the Women's Health Action Plan. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, on UG 10, on the protection of inter-gender and trans* persons in Hungary. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this motion for a resolution, are a sign of approval. – This is the minority. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues in relation to UG 10, 'True measures to protect violence instead of steps towards the detriment of women and children affected by violence'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Shetty, ladies and gentlemen, on UG 10, on the visible recognition of the LGBTQ community on the occasion of the Pride Week. Who is for that, I ask him to consent. – This is the minority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues on UG 10, on the mandate and budgetary provision of a time-consuming study. Who is for that, I ask him to consent. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Muchitsch, colleagues in relation to UG 20, 'to increase unemployment benefit as soon as possible'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Belakovich, colleagues on UG 20, on the package of measures against sectoral unemployment in Austria. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Petra Wimmer, Mr Michael Bernhard, colleagues on UG 25, 'Inadequate assistance for families from the Family Hard Fund, clarity and equal opportunities for all children'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Petra Wimmer, Michael Bernhard, colleagues on UG 25, 'More budget for family consultation'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Mühlberghuber, colleagues on UG 25, 'double family allowances in months with corona-related school closure'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Muchitsch, colleagues on UG 20, on "Labour market policy emergency measures for employment promotion". Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Holzleitner, colleagues on UG 25, 'annual valorisation of the Federal Youth Fund'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, concerning UG 22, 'Let us save our pension system and the prospects for the future of our children'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Verena Nussbaum, colleagues on UG 21,'mandatory accessibility in the granting of federal funding'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Belakovich, colleagues on UG 21, 'Implementation laws on the basic social assistance law and adaptation of the basic social assistance law in COVID-19 times'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Fiedler, ladies and gentlemen, on UG 21, on the billing catalogue for primary care with social security. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Vogl, colleagues in relation to UG 21, 'Increasing the refund of trust funds for ASB Glünderberatungen GmbH, the umbrella organisation of the state-recognised debt advice in Austria'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Vogl, ladies and gentlemen, on UG 21, on 'Translation interest cover'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – That too is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Peter Schmiedlechner, colleagues on UG 22, 'Reduction and so on. Provision of social security contributions for small and medium-sized farms in the COVID-19 crisis’. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. Vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Worm, colleagues, on UG 21, 'Price monitoring and inflation stop in COVID-19 times'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Vogl, colleagues on UG 21, on "financial security of national debt advice organisations". Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Kaniak, colleagues on UG 24, on the package of measures on the Austrian health system in accordance with COVID-19. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Loacker, colleagues on UG 24, on the publication of the quality KH indicators (A-IQI) at KH sites. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dietmar Keck, colleagues on UG 24, on "the highest need for support for the mercies and private associations concerned with animals in distress". Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Kucher, ladies and gentlemen, concerning UG 24, 'Debug liability of the Federal Government for Health Insurance'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Silva, ladies and gentlemen, concerning UG 24, 'The cover of the CSF deficits by the Federal Government'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kickl, colleagues, on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Finance in accordance with Art. 74 para. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. Since the presence of half of the Members is necessary for such a decision in accordance with paragraph 2 of the Constitution, I expressly note it. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members of the European Parliament, Members of the European Parliament, on UG 45, on the security of trade in goods in the crisis. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Greiner, colleagues on UG 44, on the security of municipal finances in the crisis. Who is for that, I ask him to sign the consent. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Angerer, colleagues on UG 44, on the upper limit for municipalities. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. The agenda is exhausted. [[09:14:30]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e66454	There is a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the Official Protocol concerning the acts of Agenda items 1 to 4 and 6 and 7 so that these parts are deemed approved at the end of the meeting. I'm coming to the lecture. Agenda item 1: ‘The draft law, in accordance with the Committee’s proposal, shall be adopted in a separate vote in 175 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendment proposal Supplement 1/2 and at second reading [...] and in third reading [...].’ [[Unrest in the hall.]] – If you already ask for the reading, I would ask you to listen at least. Agenda item 2: ‘The draft law will be adopted in the second and third readings in 184 as requested by the Committee.’ Agenda item 3: ‘The draft law will be adopted in the second and third readings in 185 of the Annexes in accordance with the Committee’. Agenda item 4: ‘The draft law is adopted in the second reading [..] and in third reading [..], in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 173 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendment proposal for a Supplement 4/1.’. Agenda item 6: ‘The referral request Supplement 6/I is rejected’. ‘The draft law will be adopted in the second and third readings in 182 of the Supplements in accordance with the Committee’. Agenda item 7: ‘The referral request Supplement 7/I is rejected’. “The draft Federal Finance Act 2020 and its Appendix I – Federal Estimate 2020, including overall overviews (Appendix I.a. until I.e.) and Annexes II to IV, in accordance with the Committee's request in 183 of the Supplements, shall be adopted in a separate vote, taking into account the amendments attached to the Committee's report and the amendment request for Supplement 7/47.’ ‘The application for a resolution of contradictions Supplement 7/IV is accepted [...]. The draft law will be adopted at third reading, taking into account the decision-making request to resolve contradictions [...].’ Are there any objections to the version or content of those parts of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. These parts of the Official Protocol are therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. [[09:17:09]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00032_d8e66552	I am entitled to announce that in today's session, self-employed applications 539/A(E) to 590/A(E) have been submitted. I call the next meeting of the National Council at 9.18 a.m. The agenda was done in writing. This meeting is closed.
