ParlaMint-AT_2020-07-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00048_d7e455	I'm allowed to do the 48. Open a meeting of the National Council. Deputies Angela Baumgartner, Mag. Michael Hammer, Mag. Elisabeth Scheucher-Pichler, Mag. Michaela Steinacker, Dietmar Keck, Andreas Kollross, Mag. Verena Nussbaum, Mag. Dr Petra Oberrauner, MMag. DDr. Hubert Fuchs, Bedrana Ribo, MAund Josef Schellhorn. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2020-07-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00048_d7e517	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-07-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00048_d7e846	I would also like to add 808/A(E) to the Committee on the Environment. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2020-07-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00048_d7e871	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that Members Gabriela Schwarz, Ralph Schallmeiner, colleagues, have requested the Health Committee to report to the Committee on Health on Amendment 795/A by Mr Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schallmeiner, and others for a period of 13 months. to be set up on July 2020. The motion for a resolution will be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the proceedings. [[20:29:58]] Decision to terminate the ordinary meeting 2019/2020
ParlaMint-AT_2020-07-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00048_d7e907	I would like to make the following request from Mr Wöginger, Mag. Lightenfried, Dr. Belakovich, Maurer, BA, Dr. Scherak, MA before: "The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is asked to attend the regular meeting of the XXVII in 2019/2020. National Council legislative period at the end of the 13th century. to be declared terminated on July 2020.’ Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Request for permanent declaration of committees
ParlaMint-AT_2020-07-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00048_d7e934	I also have a request from Mrs Wöginger, Mag. Lighten up, Mag. Kaniak, Maurer, BA and Dr. Scherak, MA according to § 46 para. 4 GoG to instruct the following committees to continue their work during the meeting-free period: Health Committee Committee on Internal Affairs. We now come to the vote on the request by Mr Wöginger, Mr Leichtfried, Mr Kaniak, Mr Maurer and Mr Scherak to instruct these committees to continue their work during the part-session-free period, and I leave it to the vote if you do not object. I would like to ask the ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of the motion in question, to have a sign of approval. – This too is unanimously adopted. [[20:31:05]] Vote on a request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2020-07-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00048_d7e977	Finally, we shall come to the vote on the request made by Mr Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schallmeiner, colleagues, the Health Committee for Reporting on Amendment 795/A by Mr Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schallmeiner, Mr President, a deadline of 13 years. to be set up on July 2020. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. [[20:31:29]] Final address of the President
ParlaMint-AT_2020-07-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00048_d7e1024	Before I close the sitting, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to address a few words to you at this time. It was certainly an unusual, extraordinary and also an enormously challenging first half year. I think you can all be proud of your work at this difficult time, of the work in your constituencies, in contact with your officials, with the electorate, with the general population, but also with the work in the committees, with the work in plenary and beyond, which is required by you in various forms as parliamentary work. We praised a new government. That seems to be a long way back. There were very intense parliamentary discussions at the beginning, which have again fertilized our parliamentary life in the meantime. No one thought it possible that an epidemic that was initially perceived as a peripheral epidemic, which was then declared a pandemic, would bring us all so much pity that we face very big issues and great challenges, including in the field of parliamentaryism. I should like to thank you very much for the fact that all in such challenging times of a pandemic, a crisis, have made a tremendous contribution, because parliamentarianism is essential for the leadership of a state and, finally, for the trust that the people need, that the rule of law is never given up at any time. I would like to thank you and all your employees for this. [[General condolences.]] We were able to resume our work gradually in half the usual form from May onwards. However, we are still sitting in a relaxed seat, and I very much hope that in September, when we are quite convinced in the presidency, we will be able to return to the normal seat system and also the functioning of Parliament. [[General condolences.]] I am thinking of the events, the work in the Committee of Inquiry, but also our international commitments, in particular with regard to the preparation of international conferences. We should have held the IPU conference in Austria, Vienna, for the first time this year. However, we have done it, that was not my merit, but that of our mandates that the date has been postponed and this conference will take place next year – that is exceptional – while a conference on the Internet platform will be held next year. I wish you all the right things for the coming time. I have already said introductoryly that we are not going to a 75-day or even longer summer break, but there and there on a well-deserved holiday. What has been done here we really want to appreciate with a great deal of thanks. I would like to thank you very much, especially the staff in the clubs, because they had many preparations to make and sometimes things could be done very quickly. All of you are our warmest thanks. [[General condolences.]] I should like to thank the members of the President-in-Office very much, my President-in-Office Bures and President Hofer, and all the club members. We have discussed very intensively, discussed controversially and have always found a common whole. – Thank you, the club members and the president for your work too. [[General condolences.]] I also thank the Austrian Federal Government. Parliament's task is with certainty to control the Federal Government, but also – where it is necessary – to introduce laws. There was cooperation, which was, of course, assessed differently from the different points of view. I should like to thank the Federal Government with Chancellors Kurz at the top, all Ministers and Vice-Chancellor Kogler. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I thank the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate. Only the one who really sees what is happening behind the stage, whether this is the National Council, the Federal Council, the Legal Service, whether this is the communication, the infrastructure and finally all the hard-working staff of the support, gets an idea that there is really an extraordinary thing being done. They have not tire of meeting all our requirements – in any locality – so that a meeting has become possible. These employees, at the head of Parliament Director Dossi and Vice Directors Janistyn-Novák and Wintoniak, who is today's birthday, have a very big and warm thanks. [[General condolences.]] I am very grateful to the staff of the Court of Auditors, the President of the Court of Auditors – she is no longer here – and to the members of the public prosecutor's office who were here in Parliament and who contributed a lot to the functioning of our meetings at this time. I can thank the police and all the security forces surrounding us, not just in relation to yesterday's alarm. You can still remember the unfortunate incident in front of the Federal President's office, even there the police reacted extremely carefully and thoughtfully. – A warm thank you! [[General condolences.]] I am grateful not least to all the media representatives and, as has already been said here, especially to the ORF, who, together with our own communication system, provides us with truly excellent services, which every Member can use for himself, and finally to our spectators, who have followed these debates with due attention, and We have also supported ourselves with criticism and perhaps with some advice to us. We will take care of this in the next six months. I wish you and your family members, your friends, with whom you will spend the next time, all the best. Stay healthy and be careful that you don't catch Covid-19 or anything else. In that sense, everything is good!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-07-09-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00048_d7e1138	The next meeting of the National Council is for Wednesday, 23. Adopted at 9 a.m. on September 2020. The sitting is closed.
